. Risk Factors,” beginning on page 14, for more information on our financial safeguards package and the associated credit risks related to our clearing services.Superior Trading Technology and Distribution — We strive to provide the most flexible architecture in terms of bringing new technology, innovations and solutions to the market.  Our CME Globex electronic trading platform is accessible on a global basis nearly 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. In 2013, 86% of our contract volume was conducted electronically. Our platform offers: •certainty of execution;  •vast capabilities to facilitate complex and demanding trading;  •direct market access;  •fairness, price transparency and anonymity; and  •global distribution, including connection through high-speed international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers in Europe, Asia and Latin America, and hosting or global order routing to our global partner exchanges.We also offer CME Direct, which is a highly-configurable trading front end that offers access to on-line trading of both exchange-traded and over-the-counter markets.  In 2012, we launched our service offerings for co-location at our data center facility, which houses our trading match engines for all products traded on the CME Globex electronic trading platform.  The service provides the lowest latency connection for our customers.  The offering is made available to all customers on equal terms.  We derived 2% of our revenues from our co-location business in 2013 and 2012.   Our Strategic Initiatives The following is a description of our strategic initiatives: Leading Core Business Innovation — We continue to enhance our customer relations to allow us to further cross-sell our products, expand on the strength of our existing benchmark products, launch new products and deepen open interest in our core futures offerings.  Over the last five years, our key product launches included Ultra-long Bond Treasury futures and options, Weekly Treasury options, numerous Eurodollar mid-curve options, weekly and short-dated agricultural options, end of month equity options and a deliverable interest rate swap futures product.  During the year, we also experienced multiple volume records across our core product portfolio.  We plan to continue to invest in expanded sales and marketing capabilities and tools to broaden customer participation and to simplify the customer experience in order to increase their use of our offerings and reduce their regulatory burdens.  Globalizing our Company and our Business — We continue to expand and diversify our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world the most broadly diversified portfolio of benchmark products.  We have expanded our product suite with the launch of a number of regionally specific products, including deliverable Chinese Renminbi futures and Chinese Steel Rebar swap futures, which help us appeal to risk management needs unique to a particular geography.  We continue to believe that we have significant opportunity to expand the participation of our non-U.S. customer base in our markets.  We are focusing on core growth in global markets because we believe that Asia, Latin America, and other emerging markets will experience superior economic and financial markets growth over the next decade compared with the more mature North American and European markets.  In addition, we plan to expand our presence in major financial centers, such as in Europe and Asia, grow our commodities business outside the U.S. and penetrate emerging markets, such as China, India, Brazil and Mexico.   To further enhance our customers' trading opportunities, we have partnered with leading exchanges around the world to make their products available on or through our CME Globex electronic trading platform.  These strategic relationships allow us to accelerate our market penetration, expand our customer reach, lower barriers of access to global benchmarks and develop product sales channels with local brokers.  These relationships are also designed to allow the customers of our partner exchanges to access our products and markets. Through CME Clearing Europe, our U.K. clearing house, we have built on our European presence and further extended the geographical reach of our clearing services.  CME Clearing Europe offers clearing services for over-the-counter derivative products, including interest rates, energy, agriculture, freight and precious metals.In 2012, we applied for regulatory approval to create CME Europe Limited, a London-based, FCA-supervised derivatives exchange.  Pending approval, product offerings will range across multiple asset classes beginning with foreign exchange.  We believe CME Europe will leverage the central counterparty model of CME Clearing Europe and allow us to more closely align  7Table of Contentswith our regional customers in both listed and over-the-counter markets, and will provide additional opportunities to our expanding non-U.S. customer base. Expanding our Existing Customer Base and Enhancing our Product and Services Offerings to Meet its Risk Management Needs — We plan to grow our business by targeting cross asset sales across client segments, driving international sales and generating new client participation across all regions.  We have a long history of customer value and responsiveness and believe our products and services make us well positioned to help our customers adapt and comply with new regulations, while enabling them to efficiently manage their risks.  With the ongoing implementation of regulatory reform, we expect capital efficiencies and smooth transitions to centralized clearing to continue to be important for our global client base.     Extending our Capabilities and Business in the Over-the-Counter Markets — We provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to the market for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to our clearing houses.  Our over-the-counter offerings provide participants the extensive counterparty credit risk reduction and transparency of our clearing services while preserving the prevailing execution processes, technology platforms and business structures currently in use in the marketplace.  We offer clearing services for cleared over-the-counter derivatives in interest rate swaps, credit default swaps, foreign exchange and commodities. We continue to focus on new customer onboarding for swaps clearing services, expanding our over-the-counter product offerings and working with the buy- and sell-sides to meet their needs for real-time clearing, risk management and data reporting as the marketplace moves from a compliance phase to an optimization phase.  In 2013, the three phases of the clearing mandate of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) were implemented in the United States.  During the year, we cleared over-the-counter transactions with a notional value of more than $15.3 trillion, and open interest as of December 31, 2013, was $9.1 trillion.  Our CME ClearPort platform offers access to an array of clearing services with the capacity to clear and report transactions in multiple asset classes. Establishing Ourselves as the Leading Exchange Company Provider of Information Products and Index Services and Enhancing our Intellectual Property Portfolio — We offer a variety of market data services for the futures, equities and the over-the-counter markets.  Our joint venture with McGraw-Hill combines the world class capabilities of S&P Indices and Dow Jones Indices, and well positions us to serve global institutional and retail customers and allows us to continue to be innovative with product development and co-branding across asset classes.  As part of the joint venture, we acquired a long-term, ownership-linked, exclusive license to list futures and options on futures based on the S&P 500 Index and certain other S&P indexes.  We also continue to expand our existing intellectual property portfolio for our technology, products and services offerings.Patents, Trademarks and Licenses We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world.  We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and other countries.  We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications.  Our patents cover match engine, trader user interface, trading floor support, market data, general technology and clearing house functionalities.  We also own the copyright to a variety of materials.  Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include printed and on-line publications, websites, advertisements, educational material, graphic presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic.  We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. We offer equity index futures and options on key benchmarks, including S&P, NASDAQ, Dow Jones and Nikkei indexes. These products are listed by us subject to license agreements with the applicable owners of the indexes, some of which are exclusive.  In connection with our joint venture with McGraw-Hill, we entered into a new license agreement (S&P License Agreement), which superseded our prior licensing arrangements and was assigned to the joint venture.  CME’s license for the S&P 500 Index will be exclusive for futures and options on futures until one year prior to the termination of the S&P License Agreement, and non-exclusive for the last year.  The license for the other S&P stock indexes is generally exclusive for futures and options on futures.  The term of the S&P License Agreement will continue until the later of (i) December 31, 2017 or (ii) the date that is one year after the date that CME Group ceases to own at least five percent (accounting for dilution) of the outstanding joint venture interests.  Upon the occurrence of certain events, including certain terminations of the joint venture, the term may be extended up to an additional ten years.  CBOT has an exclusive license agreement (Dow Jones License Agreement) with CME Group Index Services LLC (CME Indexes) for certain Dow Jones indexes, which has also been assigned to the joint venture.  The initial term of the agreement is through June 30, 2026.  Following the initial term, the Dow Jones License Agreement shall automatically renew for renewal terms of five years thereafter so long as there is open interest in any of CBOT’s or its affiliates’ products based on one or more of the Dow Jones licensed indexes.  In the event there is no open interest in any such products, then CME Indexes has the ability to terminate the agreement.  We also have an exclusive license agreement for certain NASDAQ indexes through 2019. Copies of our S&P, Dow Jones and NASDAQ license arrangements have been filed as material contracts.  We pay the applicable third party per trade fees based on contract volume under the terms of these licensing agreements.  8Table of ContentsAs a result of the well-publicized issues relating to the credibility of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the U.K. Treasury awarded NYSE Euronext (now IntercontinentalExchange Group, Inc. following its merger) administration rights over the LIBOR contract.  The transfer of the administration from the British Bankers' Association (BBA) was completed in early 2014.  Our pre-existing license and membership agreement with the BBA organization for the use of LIBOR to settle several of our interest rate products, including our Eurodollar contract, remains in effect following the transition.   We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the exclusivity of our licensing agreements with S&P, Dow Jones and NASDAQ or be able to maintain our other existing licensing arrangements beyond the term of the current agreements.  In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not succeed in creating stock index futures based on information similar to that which we have obtained by license, or that market participants will not increasingly use other instruments, including securities and options based on the S&P, Dow Jones or NASDAQ indexes, to manage or speculate on U.S. stock risks.  Parties also may succeed in offering indexed products that are similar to our licensed products without being required to obtain a license, or in countries that are beyond our jurisdictional reach and/or our licensors. Seasonality Generally, we have historically experienced relatively higher contract volume during the first and second quarters and sequentially lower contract volume in the third and fourth quarters.  However, such seasonality also may be impacted by general market conditions or other events.  During 2013, 25% of our consolidated revenues were recognized in the first quarter, 28% in the second quarter, 24% in the third quarter and 23% in the fourth quarter. Working Capital We generally meet our funding requirements with internally generated funds supplemented from time to time with public debt and commercial paper offerings.  For more information on our working capital needs, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition-Liquidity and Capital Resources,” beginning on page 31, which section is incorporated herein by reference. Customer Base Our customer base includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers, governments and central banks.  Our customers can connect to our CME Globex electronic trading platform from access points across the globe.  Customers may be members of one or more of our CME, CBOT, NYMEX or COMEX exchanges.  Rights to directly access our markets will depend upon the nature of the customer, such as whether the individual is a member of one of our exchanges or has executed an agreement with us for direct access. Trading rights and privileges are exchange-specific.  Trading on our open outcry trading floors is conducted exclusively by our members.  Membership on one of our futures exchanges also enables a customer to trade specific products at reduced rates and lower fees.  Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership benefit protections.  In 2013, 80% of our contract volume was conducted by our members and KCBT permit holders.  In connection with the transfer of KCBT's operations to CBOT in 2013, the rights of permit holders were extinguished. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represents charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers.  One firm represented 11% and one firm represented 10% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for 2013.  In the event a clearing firm were to withdraw, our experience indicates that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange.  Competition The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify, especially in light of changes in the financial services industry driven primarily by Dodd-Frank.  Please also refer to the discussion below and in the “Risk Factors” section beginning on page 14 for a description of competitive risks and uncertainties.Competition in our Derivatives Business We believe competition in the derivatives and securities business is based on a number of factors, including, among others: •reputation;•efficient and secure settlement, clearing and support services;•depth and liquidity of markets;  •breadth of product offerings and rate and quality of new product development;   9Table of Contents•ability to position and expand upon existing products to address changing market needs;  •transparency, reliability and anonymity in transaction processing;  •regulatory environment;•connectivity, accessibility and distribution;  •technological capability and innovation; and•transaction costs. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors.  Our deep, liquid markets; diverse product offerings; rate and quality of new product development; and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services, distinguish us from our competitors.  We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to expand globally; develop new and innovative products; enhance our technology infrastructure, including its reliability and functionality; maintain liquidity and low transaction costs, and implement customer protections designed to ensure the integrity of our market and the confidence of our customers.  Our competitors include, among other entities, exchanges such as IntercontinentalExchange Group, Inc. (ICE Group); the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited; and Deutsche Börse AG.  In addition, competition in our industry is dynamic and recent developments and alliances may result in a growing number of well-capitalized trading service providers that compete with all or a portion of our business.   We also face competition from the over-the-counter marketplace, spot markets, securities exchanges and other venues offering "look-alike" or close substitutes for our listed contracts.  In addition, the development of swap execution facilities and the mandated trading and/or clearing requirement for certain products may lead to the creation of platforms that promote competitive substitutes for our privately negotiated and exchange-traded products.  Competition in our Transaction Processing Business In addition, we face a number of competitors in our transaction processing and other business services.  In the past few years, there has been increased competition in the provision of clearing services and we expect competition to continue to increase in connection with the continued implementation of and compliance with Dodd-Frank. Our competitors in the clearing services space include, among others, companies such as ICE Group, LCH.SwapClear and Deutsche Börse AG.  In light of Dodd-Frank's clearing mandate and other reforms of the financial services industry, we believe that other exchanges and infrastructure providers also may undertake to provide clearing services. We believe competition in the transaction processing and business services market is based on, among other things, the fees charged for the services provided; quality and reliability of the services; creditworthiness of the clearing house; timely delivery of the services; reputation; offering breadth; confidentiality of positions and information security protective measures; and the value of providing customers with capital efficiencies.  Competition in our Market Data Business Technology companies, market data and information vendors and front-end software vendors also represent actual and potential competitors because they have their own substantial market data distribution capabilities which could serve as alternative means for receiving open market data feeds instead of connecting directly to our exchange.  Distributors and consumers of our market data may also use our market data as an input into a product that competes against one of our traded or cleared products.   Although we may receive license fees for such products, such fees may not exceed the impact of any loss in trading volume of our comparable product.Regulatory Matters We are primarily subject to the jurisdiction of the regulatory agencies in the United States and the United Kingdom.  We also are subject to varying levels of regulation by foreign jurisdictions that permit our exchanges and other businesses to offer our products and services to their citizens.  Please also refer to the discussion below and in the “Risk Factors” section beginning on page 14 for a description of regulatory and legislative risks and uncertainties.Regulation in the United StatesOur operation of futures exchanges and our U.S. clearing house is subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC which requires that our exchange subsidiaries satisfy the requirements of certain core principles relating to the operation and oversight of our markets and our clearing house.  The CFTC carries out the regulation of the futures markets in accordance with the provisions  10Table of Contentsof the Commodity Exchange Act as amended by, among others, the Commodity Futures Modernization Act and Dodd-Frank.  The CFTC is subject to reauthorization every five years, which is currently in process.  Following the enactment of Dodd-Frank, the CFTC has moved from a principles-based to a more prescriptive regulatory approach over most aspects of our trading and clearing operations. During 2013, the CFTC, the SEC, the Department of Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and other regulators continued to engage in extensive rulemaking to implement Dodd-Frank.  Over the past three years, a number of regulations implementing Dodd-Frank were finalized, including rules relating to the implementation of mandatory clearing of certain over-the-counter derivatives, swap reporting, operation of a clearing house, anti-manipulation, large trader reporting, product definitions, the definition of an agricultural commodity and certain provisions of the rules applicable to designated contract markets, swap execution facilities and swap data repositories.  We continue to believe the new regulations provide opportunities for our business which we continue to explore.  However, portions of Dodd-Frank remain subject to further rulemaking, and such final regulations could include provisions that negatively impact our business.  Our U.S. clearing house has been designated as a systemically important financial market utility and a systemically important derivatives clearing organization.  These designations carry with them additional regulatory oversight of certain of our risk-management standards, clearing and settlement activities by the Federal Reserve Bank and the CFTC.  Our U.S. swap data repository service and swap execution facility are also subject to the requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations of the CFTC.  Regulation in the United Kingdom and the European UnionIn the United Kingdom, the government approved a re-organization of its regulatory framework under which the Financial Services Authority was dissolved and its oversight responsibilities were transitioned in 2013 primarily to the Bank of England and the FCA.  As a result, in the United Kingdom our operations are subject to multiple regulators: the Bank of England; the FCA and ESMA.  CME Clearing (our U.S. clearing house) will be subject to certain conditions and reporting obligations as a result of its recognition by ESMA.  The European Union also is undergoing similar change, establishing multiple supervisory authorities for financial services, including ESMA.  Multiple directives and regulations such as the amendments to Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) and changes to the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR); the Capital Requirements Regulations IV and the Market Abuse Directive, have been proposed with provisions similar to those contained in Dodd-Frank. Key Areas of FocusWe actively monitor and participate in the domestic and international rulemaking processes for our industry, including providing government testimony, commenting on proposed rulemakings and educating our regulators on potential impacts to the marketplace. Our key areas of focus in the regulatory environment are: •Regulations implementing the core principles for designated contract markets, including any changes to the rules implementing the competitive execution requirements of Core Principle 9.  Rules promulgated under this provision may require us to make modifications to the manner in which certain of our contracts trade and/or require that such products be de-listed as futures and re-listed as swaps after a specified compliance period.•The adoption and implementation of position limit rules, which could have a significant impact on our commodities business if comparable trading venues in foreign jurisdictions are not subject to equivalent limitations.  In November 2013, the CFTC re-proposed its position limits rule for comment replacing the rule that had been vacated by the U.S. District Court.   •Rules respecting capital charges under Basel III with respect to clearing members of central counterparties.  There is a risk that these new standards may impose overly burdensome capital requirements on our clearing members and customers.•The criteria necessary to be deemed a qualifying central counterparty (QCCP).  A failure to be deemed a QCCP by banking regulators in the U.S., E.U. or otherwise may result in our clearing members and customers being subject to more stringent capital requirements thus creating a disincentive to use our markets. •The potential impact of MiFID II and MiFIR on non-E.U. clearing houses with customers based in Europe. •The potential elimination of the 60/40 tax treatment of certain of our derivatives contracts, which would impose a significant increase in tax rates applicable to certain market participants, and could result in a decrease in their trading activity.   11Table of Contents•The implementation of a transaction tax or user fee in the U.S. or E.U. which could discourage institutions and individuals from using our markets or products or encourage them to trade in another less costly jurisdiction.•The implementation of measures to further protect customer funds at the futures commission merchant level, and to restore confidence in the derivatives markets. •The potential for further regulation stemming from industry performance disruptions and residual concerns around electronic trading activity and, in particular, "high frequency trading."  •The implementation of legislation in the E.U. impacting how benchmark index prices are formed, including new requirements for price submitters, price aggregators and markets that list contracts that reference index prices. •Concerns that legislators will prohibit or restrict exclusive licenses for benchmark indexes, which might impact the profitability of several of our most popular contracts. •The implementation of rules regarding enhanced liquidity management standards for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and any potential limitation on the use of U.S. Treasury securities as collateral.  Significant limitations on the use of U.S. Treasury securities as collateral could result in increased costs to us and our clearing firms. Employees As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 2,730 employees. We consider relations with our employees to be good. Senior Leadership Team and Executive Officers Set forth below is the company's Senior Leadership Team, including those individuals designated executive officers of the company, as of the date of this filing.   Terrence A. Duffy, 55. Mr. Duffy has served as our Executive Chairman and President since May 2012.  Mr. Duffy previously served as our Executive Chairman from 2006 and has been a member of our board of directors since 1995.  He also served as President of TDA Trading, Inc. from 1981 to 2002 and has been a member of our CME exchange since 1981.  Mr. Duffy has been designated as an executive officer. Phupinder S. Gill, 53.  Mr. Gill has served as our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors since May 2012.  Previously, he served as our President from 2007 to May 2012.  Mr. Gill joined us in 1988 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including President and Chief Operating Officer, and Managing Director and President of CME Clearing and GFX Corporation.  Mr. Gill has been designated as an executive officer. Kathleen M. Cronin, 50.  Ms. Cronin has served as our Senior Managing Director, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since 2003.  Previously she served as Corporate Secretary and Acting General Counsel from 2002 through 2003. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cronin was a corporate attorney at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom from 1989 through 1995 and from 1997 through 2002.  Ms. Cronin has been designated as an executive officer. Bryan T. Durkin, 53.  Mr. Durkin has served as our Chief Operating Officer since 2007.  He also held the title of Managing Director, Products and Services from 2010 to July 2012.  Mr. Durkin joined us in connection with the CBOT merger and he previously held a variety of leadership roles with CBOT from 1982 to 2007, most recently as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Durkin also serves as our representative on the board of Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Berhad.  Mr. Durkin has been designated as an executive officer. Ali Hackett, 57.  Ms. Hackett has served as Senior Managing Director, Client Development and Sales since February 2014.  Previously she served as Managing Director, Client Development and Sales since joining the company in 2010.  Prior to joining CME Group, Ms. Hackett spent a nearly 20-year career at Citigroup, where she most recently served as Managing Director, Co-Head of Global Prime Finance.Julie Holzrichter, 45.  Ms. Holzrichter has served as Senior Managing Director, Global Operations since 2007.  Ms. Holzrichter rejoined us in 2006 as our Managing Director, CME Globex Services and Technology Integration.  Ms. Holzrichter previously held positions of increasing responsibility in our organization from 1986 to 2003 in trading operations.  Ms. Holzrichter has been designated as an executive officer. William Knottenbelt, 53.  Mr. Knottenbelt has served as Senior Managing Director, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) of CME Group since February 2014.  Previously, Mr. Knottenbelt served as Managing Director, EMEA since joining the company in 2011. Prior to joining CME Group, Mr. Knottenbelt most recently served as Global Head of Futures for the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) where he built out the global reach and product offering of RBS futures. 12Table of ContentsKevin Kometer, 49.  Mr. Kometer has served as Senior Managing Director and Chief Information Officer since 2008.  He previously served as Managing Director and Deputy Chief Information Officer from 2007 to 2008.  Since joining the company most recently in 1998, he has held senior leadership positions in the Technology Division, including Managing Director, Trading Execution Systems and Director, Advanced Technology.  Mr. Kometer was also with the company from 1994 to 1996.  Mr. Kometer has been designated as an executive officer. Julien Le Noble, 41.  Mr. Le Noble has served as Senior Managing Director, Asia Pacific of CME Group since February 2014.  Previously, Mr. Le Noble served as Managing Director, Asia Pacific since joining the company in 2011. Before joining CME Group, Mr. Le Noble served as CEO and Representative Director, Japan and Head of Equities, Asia Pacific for Newedge, where he led the firm's Japanese business development and sales efforts for its Tokyo-based subsidiary. James E. Parisi, 49.  Mr. Parisi has served as our Chief Financial Officer since 2004. Mr. Parisi joined us in 1988 and has held positions of increasing responsibility within the organization, including Managing Director & Treasurer and Director, Planning & Finance.  Mr. Parisi has been designated as an executive officer. Hilda Harris Piell, 47.  Ms. Piell has served as Senior Managing Director and Chief Human Resources Officer since 2007.  Previously she served as Managing Director and Senior Associate General Counsel, as Director and Associate General Counsel and as Associate Director and Assistant General Counsel since joining us in 2000. Ms. Piell has been designated as an executive officer. James V. Pieper, 47.  Mr. Pieper has served as our Managing Director and Chief Accounting Officer since 2010.  Previously, Mr. Pieper served as Director and Controller since 2006 and as Associate Director and Assistant Controller from 2004 to 2006. Mr. Pieper has been designated as an executive officer. John W. Pietrowicz, 49.  Mr. Pietrowicz has served as our Senior Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate Finance since 2010. Mr. Pietrowicz joined us in 2003 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility, including his most recent position of Managing Director and Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2010 and Managing Director, Corporate Finance and Treasury from 2006 to 2009. Linda Rich, 50.  Ms. Rich has served as our Senior Managing Director, Government Relations and Legislative Affairs since April 2012. Prior to assuming her current role, Ms. Rich served as Managing Director, Government Relations and Legislative Affairs since joining us in 2010. Before joining the company, Ms. Rich served as Senior Vice President, Government Relations for NYSE Euronext. Her background also includes serving as senior counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services and as counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Commerce.Derek Sammann, 45.  Mr. Sammann has served as our Senior Managing Director, Financial Products and Services since 2009.  He previously served as our Global Head of Foreign Exchange Products since joining us in 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sammann served as Managing Director, Global Head of FX Options and Structured Products at Calyon Corporate and Investment Bank in London from 1997 to 2006. Kimberly S. Taylor, 52.  Ms. Taylor has served as our President, CME Clearing since 2004 and as Managing Director, Risk Management in the Clearing House Division from 1998 to 2003.  Ms. Taylor has held a variety of positions in the clearing house, including Vice President and Senior Director. She joined us in 1989.  Ms. Taylor has been designated as an executive officer. Sean Tully, 50.  Mr. Tully has served as Senior Managing Director, Interest Rates and OTC Products of CME Group since February 2014. Previously, he served as Managing Director, Interest Rate and OTC Products since October 2013 and as our Managing Director, Interest Products since joining us in 2011.  Before joining the company, Mr. Tully most recently served as Managing Director, Global Head of Fixed Income Trading at WestLB in London. Kendal Vroman, 42.  Mr. Vroman has served as our Senior Managing Director, Commodity Products & Services and OTC Solutions since October 2013.  Previously he served as our Senior Managing Director, Commodity and Information Products & Services since 2010 and as Managing Director and Chief Corporate Development Officer from 2008 to 2010. Mr. Vroman joined us in 2001 and since then has held positions of increasing responsibility, including most recently as Managing Director, Corporate Development and Managing Director, Information and Technology Services.   Scot E. Warren, 50.  Mr. Warren has served as our Senior Managing Director, Equity Index Products and Index Services since 2010. Mr. Warren previously served as our Managing Director, Equity Products since joining us in 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Warren worked for Goldman Sachs as its Vice President, Manager Trading and Business Analysis Team. Prior to Goldman Sachs, Mr. Warren managed equity and option execution and clearing businesses for ABN Amro in Chicago and was a Senior Consultant for Arthur Andersen & Co. for financial services firms. Julie Winkler, 39.  Ms. Winkler has served as Senior Managing Director, Research and Product Development of CME Group since February 2014.  Previously, she served as Managing Director, Research and Product Development since 2007. 13Table of ContentsRobert Zagotta, 49.  Mr. Zagotta has served as Senior Managing Director, Products and Services of CME Group since July 2012. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Zagotta most recently served as Executive Vice President, Business Strategy and Execution for Project Leadership Associates (PLA) from 2007 to July 2012, where he worked with CME Group on a number of strategic consulting assignments. Before joining PLA, Mr. Zagotta was CEO and Co-Founder of Fourth Floor Consulting, which was acquired by PLA, and a Senior Manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Mr. Zagotta has been designated as an executive officer. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS CME Group has not historically tracked revenues based upon geographic location. Beginning in September 2011, we began tracking trading volume based on the country of origin of the transaction as disclosed to us by the customer.  Prior to September 2011, we tracked trading volume based on the time of the execution of the trade and whether it occurred during traditional U.S. trading hours or through our international telecommunication hubs.  In 2013 and 2012, we estimate that approximately 22% and 21% of our electronic trading volume originated from outside of the United States.  The following table shows the percentage of our total contract volume on our Globex electronic trading platform generated during non-U.S. hours and through our international hubs for the last three years.   2013 2012 2011Trading during non-U.S. hours18% 17% 16%Trading through telecommunication hubs15% 15% 8%AVAILABLE INFORMATIONOur website is www.cmegroup.com. Information made available on our website does not constitute part of this document. We make available on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC.  Our corporate governance materials, including our Corporate Governance Principles, Director Conflict of Interest Policy, Board of Directors Code of Ethics, Categorical Independence Standards, Employee Code of Conduct and the charters for all the standing committees of our board, also may be found on our website.  Copies of these materials also are available to shareholders free of charge upon written request to Shareholder Relations, Attention Ms. Beth Hausoul, CME Group Inc., 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606. ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the factors discussed below, which are the risks we believe are material at this time. These risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY Our business is subject to the impact of domestic and international market, economic and political conditions which are beyond our control and which could significantly reduce our contract volumes and make our financial results more volatile. Our revenue is substantially dependent on the contract volume in our markets. Our contract volume is directly affected by domestic and international factors that are beyond our control, including: •economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; •legislative and regulatory changes, including any direct or indirect restrictions on or increased costs associated with trading in our markets;  •broad trends in the industry and financial markets; •changes in price levels, contract volumes and volatility in the derivatives markets and in underlying equity, foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity markets;  •shifts in global or regional demand or supply in commodities underlying our products;  •competition;  •changes in government monetary policies, especially central bank decisions related to quantitative easing;  •availability of capital to our market participants and their appetite for risk-taking; 14Table of Contents•levels of assets under management; •volatile weather patterns, droughts, natural disasters and other catastrophes; and•consolidation in our customer base and within our industry.Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity in our markets.  Historically, periods of heightened uncertainty have tended to increase our trading volume due to increased hedging activity and the increased need to manage the risks associated with, or speculate on, volatility in the U.S. equity markets, fluctuations in interest rates and price changes in the foreign exchange, commodity and other markets.  However, as evidenced by our past performance, in the period after a material market disturbance, there may persist extreme uncertainties which may lead to decreased volume due to factors such as reduced risk exposure, lower interest rates, central bank asset purchase programs and lack of available capital.  The shifts in market trading patterns we experienced as a result of the financial disturbance of 2008 may or may not recur in the future, and our business will be affected by future economic uncertainties which may result in decreased trading volume and a more difficult business environment for us.  Material decreases in trading volume would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.We operate in a heavily regulated environment that imposes significant costs and competitive burdens on our business. We are primarily subject to the jurisdiction of the regulatory agencies in the United States and the United Kingdom.  We also are subject to varying levels of regulation by foreign jurisdictions that permit our exchanges to offer our products and services to their citizens.  Due to the global financial crisis that began in 2008, the United States and numerous other governments have undertaken reviews of the existing legal framework governing financial markets and have either passed new laws and regulations, or are in the process of debating or enacting new laws and regulations that will impact our business.  While certain of these changes may have a positive impact on our business, some of these changes could adversely affect our business, including areas of regulatory focus discussed under "Item 1 – Business – Regulatory Matters" beginning on page 10.  Compliance with regulations may require us and our customers to dedicate significant financial and operational resources that could result in some participants leaving our markets or decreasing their trading activity, which would negatively affect our profitability.  We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional costs to comply with the extensive regulations that apply to our business.  To the extent the regulatory environment following the implementation of Dodd-Frank and other financial reform regulations is less beneficial for us or our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected. If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our designations as a contract market and derivatives clearing organization. Some of our largest clearing firms have indicated their belief that clearing facilities should not be owned or controlled by exchanges and should be operated as utilities and not for profit. These clearing firms have sought, and may seek in the future, legislative or regulatory changes that would, if adopted, enable them to use alternative clearing services for positions established on our exchanges or to freely move open positions among clearing houses in order to take advantage of our liquidity. Even if they are not successful, these factors may cause them to limit the use of our markets. Our clearing houses seek to offer customers, intermediaries and clearing firms universal access in order to maximize the efficient use of capital, exercise appropriate oversight of value at risk and maintain operating leverage from clearing activities.  Our strategic business plan is to operate an efficient and transparent vertically integrated transaction execution, clearing and settlement business for our futures and options on futures business.  Some of our clearing firms have expressed the view that clearing firms should control the governance of clearing houses or that clearing houses should be operated as utilities rather than as part of for-profit enterprises. Some of these firms, along with certain industry associations, have sought, and may seek in the future, legislative or regulatory changes to be adopted that would facilitate mechanisms or policies that allow market participants to transfer positions from an exchange-owned clearing house to a clearing house owned and controlled by clearing firms.  If these legislative or regulatory changes are adopted, our revenues and profits could be adversely affected. We face intense competition from other companies, including some of our members. If we are not able to successfully compete, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially harmed. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify, especially in light of the implementation of Dodd-Frank and other reforms of the financial services industry.  We believe portions of Dodd-Frank and the corresponding regulations with respect to mandatory clearing and organized trading provide opportunities for our business. However, other portions of Dodd-Frank and the regulatory structure being implemented could negatively impact our business and our ability to compete effectively. We encounter competition in all aspects of our business, including from entities having substantially greater capital and resources, offering a wide range of products and services and in some cases operating  15Table of Contentsunder a different and possibly less stringent regulatory regime.  We face competition from other futures, securities and securities option exchanges; over-the-counter markets; clearing organizations; consortia formed by our members and large industry participants; swap execution facilities; alternative trade execution facilities; technology firms, including market data distributors and electronic trading system developers; and others.  Many of our competitors and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. Our competitors may: •respond more quickly to competitive pressures, including responses based upon their corporate governance structures, which may be more flexible and efficient than our corporate governance structure; •develop products that are preferred by our customers;  •develop risk transfer products that compete with our products;  •price their products and services more competitively;  •develop and expand their network infrastructure and service offerings more efficiently;  •utilize better, more user-friendly and more reliable technology;  •take greater advantage of acquisitions, alliances and other opportunities;  •more effectively market, promote and sell their products and services;  •better leverage existing relationships with customers and alliance partners or exploit better recognized brand names to market and sell their services; and  •exploit regulatory disparities between traditional, regulated exchanges and alternative markets that benefit from a reduced regulatory burden and lower-cost business model.If our products, markets and services are not competitive, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially harmed.  A decline in our fees or loss of customers could lower our revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. Please see "Item 1 – Business – Competition" beginning on page 9 for additional information on the competitive environment and its potential impact on our business. Our contract volume, and consequently our revenues and profits, would be adversely affected if we are unable to retain our current customers or attract new customers. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase our contract volume. To do so, we must maintain and expand our product offerings, our customer base and our trade execution and clearing facilities.  Our success also depends on our ability to offer competitive prices and services in an increasingly price-sensitive business.  For example, in recent years, some of our competitors have engaged in aggressive pricing strategies, such as lowering the fees that they charge for taking liquidity and increasing liquidity payments or rebates.  We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to continue to expand our product lines, that we will be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers or that we will not be required to modify our pricing structure to compete effectively. Changes in our pricing structure may result in a decrease in our profit margin.  We bill a substantial portion of our clearing and transaction fees to our clearing firms.  The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represent charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers.  One firm represented 11% and one firm represented 10% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for 2013.  Should a clearing firm withdraw, our experience indicates that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange.  However, there is the possibility we would lose a portion of the customer business. Additionally, from time to time, certain customers may represent a significant portion of the open interest in our individual product lines or contracts.  If we fail to maintain our contract volume; expand our product offerings or execution facilities; or lose a substantial number of our current customers, or a subset of customers representing a significant percentage of contract volume in a particular product line; or are unable to attract new customers, our business and revenues will be adversely affected.  Furthermore, declines in contract volume due to loss of customers may negatively impact market liquidity, which could lead to further loss of contract volume.  As a financial services provider, we are subject to significant litigation risk and potential securities law liability. Many aspects of our business involve substantial litigation risks.  While we generally are protected by our rules limiting liability for system failures and certain forms of negligence and by statutory limits on private causes of actions in cases where we have not behaved in bad faith, we could be exposed to substantial liability under federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated and/or direct actions brought by the SEC and the CFTC.  These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over terms of a trade, the claim that a system failure or delay caused monetary  16Table of Contentslosses to a customer, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction, that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a transaction or that we failed to effectively carryout our regulatory oversight responsibilities.  Dissatisfied customers frequently make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers.  We may become subject to these claims as a result of failures or malfunctions of our systems and services we provide.  We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit.  In addition, an adverse resolution of any future lawsuit or claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. Our role in the global marketplace places us at greater risk than other public companies for a cyber attack and other cyber security risks. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, which could result in wrongful use of our information or cause interruptions in our operations that cause us to lose customers and contract volume, and result in substantial liabilities. We also could be required to incur significant expense to protect our systems and/or investigate any alleged attack. We regard the secure transmission of confidential information and the ability to continuously transact and clear on our electronic trading platforms as critical elements of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, fraud, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, terrorism, firewall or encryption failures and other security problems. Groups have targeted the financial services industry and our role in the global marketplace places us at greater risk than other public companies for a cyber attack and other information security risks. In July 2013, we were the victim of a cyber intrusion. Although we maintain sophisticated systems, teams and processes to prevent such incidents, and took significant actions to address the incident, we learned that certain customer information was compromised. We incurred expenses of $16.0 million related to our response to the event. Any future alleged incidents could result in substantial costs and liability to us and diversions of our resources, and may distract the attention of management from the ongoing operation of our business. Additionally, our role as a leading derivatives marketplace and the operation of our CME Globex electronic trading platform may place us at greater risk for misappropriation of our intellectual property. For example, in 2012, a former employee of CME Group pled guilty to theft of our trade secrets. Other persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. As part of our global information security program, we employ resources to monitor and protect our environment and infrastructure against such cyber attacks and the potential misappropriation of our intellectual property assets.  However, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed, which could result in system failures and delays, loss of customers and lower contract volume, and negatively affect our competitive advantage and result in substantial costs and liabilities.  We may be at greater risk from terrorism than other companies. We may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target of, or an indirect casualty of, attacks by terrorists or terrorist organizations. It is impossible to accurately predict the likelihood or impact of any terrorist attack on the derivatives industry generally or on our business.  While we have undertaken significant measures to develop business continuity plans and to establish backup sites, in the event of an attack or a threat of an attack, these security measures and contingency plans may be inadequate to prevent significant disruptions in our business, technology or access to the infrastructure necessary to maintain our business.  Such attack may result in the closure of our trading and clearing facilities or render our backup data and recovery systems inoperable.  Damage to our facilities due to terrorist attacks may be significantly in excess of any amount of insurance received, or we may not be able to insure against such damage at a reasonable price or at all.  The threat of terrorist attacks may also negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  17Table of ContentsRISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS The success of our markets depends on our ability to complete development of, successfully implement and maintain the electronic trading systems that have the functionality, performance, reliability and speed required by our customers. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to create interactive electronic marketplaces, in a wide range of derivatives products, that have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed to attract and retain customers.  A significant portion of our overall volume is generated through electronic trading on our CME Globex electronic platform. We must continue to enhance our electronic trading platform to remain competitive.  As a result, we will continue to be subject to risks, expenses and uncertainties encountered in the rapidly evolving market for electronic transaction services.  These risks include our failure or inability to:  •provide reliable and cost-effective services to our customers;  •develop, in a timely manner, the required functionality to support electronic trading in our key products in a manner that is competitive with the functionality supported by other electronic markets;  •match fees of our competitors;  •attract independent software vendors to write front-end software that will effectively access our electronic trading system and automated order routing system;  •respond to technological developments or service offerings by competitors; and  •generate sufficient revenue to justify the substantial capital investment we have made and will continue to make to enhance our electronic trading platform.If we do not successfully enhance our electronic trading platform, or our current or potential customers do not adopt it, our revenues and profits will be adversely affected.  Additionally, we rely on our customers' ability to have the necessary back office functionality to support our new products and our trading and clearing functionality.  To the extent our customers are not prepared and/or lack the resources or infrastructure, the success of our new initiatives may be compromised. In addition, if we are unable to develop our electronic trading systems to include other products and markets, or if our electronic trading systems do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed, we may not be able to compete successfully in an environment that is dominated by electronic trading. If we experience systems failures or capacity constraints, our ability to conduct our operations and execute our business strategy could be materially harmed and we could be subjected to significant costs and liabilities. We are heavily dependent on the capacity, reliability and security of the computer and communications systems and software supporting our operations. We receive and/or process a large portion of our trade orders through electronic means, such as through public and private communications networks. Our systems, or those of our third-party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following to occur:  •unanticipated disruptions in service to our customers;  •slower response times;  •delays in our customers' trade execution;  •failed settlement of trades;  •incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades;  •financial losses;  •security breaches;  •litigation or other customer claims;  •loss of customers; and  •regulatory sanctions. We cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures from power or telecommunications failure, acts of God, war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, acts of vandalism or similar occurrences.  If any of our systems do not operate properly or are disabled, including as a result of system failure, employee or customer error or misuse of our systems, we could suffer financial loss, liability to customers, regulatory intervention or reputational damage that could affect demand by current and potential users of our market. For  18Table of Contentsexample, our co-location facility hosts a significant portion of our customers' infrastructure.  While we have undertaken measures to secure such facility and to implement disaster recovery measures, if we were to experience an outage at that location it could have a significant impact on our revenues and reputation.From time to time, we have experienced system errors and failures that have resulted in some customers being unable to connect to our electronic trading platform, or that resulted in erroneous reporting, such as transactions that were not authorized by any customer or reporting of filled orders as canceled.  Such errors may result in CME Group being liable or in our voluntary assumption of financial liability.  We cannot assure you that if we experience system errors or failures in the future that they will not have a material adverse impact on our business.  Any such system failures that cause an interruption in service or decrease our responsiveness could impair our reputation, damage our brand name or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our status as a CFTC registrant generally requires that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak contract volume.  Heavy use of our computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause our systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time.  We constantly monitor system loads and performance, and regularly implement system upgrades to handle estimated increases in contract volume.  However, we cannot assure you that our estimates of future contract volume and order messaging traffic will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual contract volume and order messaging traffic without failure or degradation of performance.  Increased CME Globex contract volume and order messaging traffic may result in connectivity problems or erroneous reports that may affect users of the platform.  System failure or degradation could lead our customers to file formal complaints with industry regulatory organizations, to file lawsuits against us or to cease doing business with us, or could lead the CFTC or other regulators to initiate inquiries or proceedings for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We will need to continue to upgrade, expand and increase the capacity of our systems as our business grows and we execute our business strategy.  Our goal is to design our systems to handle two times our peak historical transactions in our highest volume products.  As volumes of transactions grow, the ability of our systems to meet this goal on an ongoing basis depends on our ability to increase our system capacity on a timely basis while maintaining system reliability.  Although many of our systems are designed to accommodate additional volume and products and services without redesign or replacement, we will need to continue to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate the increases in volume of transactions and order transaction traffic and to provide processing services to third parties.  If we cannot increase the capacity and capabilities of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions and to execute our business strategy, our ability to maintain or expand our businesses would be adversely affected. We, as well as many of our customers, depend on third-party suppliers and service providers for a number of services that are important.  An interruption or cessation of an important supply or service by any third party could have a material adverse effect on our business, including revenues derived from our customers' trading activity. We depend on a number of suppliers, such as banking, clearing and settlement organizations, telephone companies, on-line service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors, for elements of our trading, clearing and other systems, as well as communications and networking equipment, computer hardware and software and related support and maintenance. Many of our customers rely on third parties, such as independent software vendors, to provide them with front-end systems to access our CME Globex platform and other back office systems for their trade processing and risk management needs.  While these service providers have undertaken to keep current with our enhancements and changes to our interfaces and functionality, we cannot guarantee that they will continue to make the necessary monetary and time investments to keep up with our changes. To the extent any of our service providers or the organizations that provide services to our customers in connection with their trading activities cease to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fail to adequately expand their services to meet our needs and the needs of our customers, we could experience decreased contract volume, lower revenues and higher costs. Our clearing house operations expose us to substantial credit risk of our third party clearing firms and, consequently, a diminishment in their financial resources could adversely affect us. Our clearing house operations expose us to counterparties with differing risk profiles.  We routinely guarantee transactions submitted by our clearing firms with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional customers.  Firms in the financial industry have experienced significant uncertainty and negative conditions as a result of the continued fallout from the financial crisis of 2008.  We could be adversely impacted by the financial distress or failure of one or more of our clearing firms.    As part of our growth initiatives, we have expanded our clearing services to swaps in addition to standard futures and options on futures products.  The process for setting margins and establishing other financial safeguards for swaps differs from our historical practices.  Although we believe that we have carefully analyzed the process for setting margins and establishing  19Table of Contentsfinancial safeguards for swaps, there is no guarantee that our procedures will adequately protect the clearing house in the event of a clearing member default during extreme market conditions. While we have hired experienced management to oversee the operations of CME Clearing Europe established in 2011, as an organization we have limited experience operating a clearing house outside of the United States. A substantial part of our working capital may be at risk if a clearing firm defaults on its obligations to the clearing house and its margin and guaranty fund deposits are insufficient to meet its obligations.  Although we have policies and procedures to help ensure that our clearing firms can satisfy their obligations, these policies and procedures may not succeed in detecting problems or preventing defaults.  We also have in place various measures intended to enable us to cure any default and maintain liquidity. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to protect market participants from a default or that we will not be adversely affected in the event of a significant default.  In addition, we have established a fund (currently up to $98 million) to provide payments, up to certain maximum levels, to qualified family farmers, ranchers and other agricultural industry participants who use our products and who suffer losses to their segregated account balances if their clearing firm member becomes insolvent.  The required capital and posted collateral of our clearing firms may lose value given the volatility of the market. To become a clearing member, a firm must meet certain minimum capital requirements and must deposit collateral to meet performance bond and guaranty fund requirements.  We accept a variety of collateral to satisfy these requirements, including cash, regulated money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. Government Agency securities, letters of credit, gold, equities and foreign sovereign debt, and subject them to established haircuts based on the type of collateral and maturity.  There is no guarantee the collateral will maintain its value.  To the extent a clearing firm is not compliant with capital, margin or guaranty fund requirements, it would be required to promptly come into compliance by adding capital or collateral, decreasing its proprietary trading activity and/or transferring customer accounts to another clearing firm.  These actions could result in a decrease in trading activity in our products. Intellectual property rights licensed from third party price reporting agencies form the basis for many of our products from which we derive a significant portion of our volume and revenue.  Recent regulatory scrutiny into such benchmarks could have a negative impact on our ability to offer such products. We are significantly dependent on the contract volume of products which are based on intellectual property rights of indexes derived from third-party price reporting agencies, including our benchmark Eurodollar contract, which is based on LIBOR.  To comply with CFTC core principles, we must be able to demonstrate that our products may not be readily subject to manipulation.  Our inability to offer products based on these indexes could have a negative impact on our contract volume and revenues.Our market data revenues may be reduced by decreased demand, poor overall economic conditions or a significant change in how market participants trade and use market data. We sell our market data to individuals, trading institutions and other organizations that use our information services to participate in our markets and/or monitor general economic conditions.  Excluding our index market data offerings, revenues from our market data and information services represented 11% and 12% of our total revenues, during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  A decrease in overall contract volume may lead to a decreased demand for our market data.  For example, in both 2013 and 2012, we experienced a decrease in the average number of market data devices due to the continued economic uncertainty, continued high unemployment levels in the financial services sector and aggressive cost cutting initiatives at customer firms and legacy incentive programs tied to trading terminals.  In 2013, we announced a series of policy changes and price increases effective over 2014 and 2015 that should result in increased market data and information services revenue.  However, we cannot guarantee that the changes or increased cost will not result in a reduction of the total number of paid subscriptions as users review their business needs for our services.  We may have difficulty executing our growth strategy and maintaining our growth effectively. We continue to focus on strategic initiatives to grow our business, including our efforts to serve the over-the-counter market and to distribute our products and services on a global basis.  There is no guarantee that our efforts will be successful.  Continued growth will require additional investment in personnel, facilities, information technology infrastructure and financial and management systems and controls and may place a significant strain on our management and resources.  For example, if we encounter limited resources, we may be required to increase our expenses to obtain the necessary resources, defer existing initiatives or not pursue certain opportunities.  We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support our growth organically or, as described below, through acquisitions, other investments or strategic alliances. Unless our growth results in an increase in our revenues that is proportionate to the increase in our costs associated with our growth, our future profitability could be adversely affected, and we may have to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements as a result of our growth.  20Table of ContentsThere is no guarantee that our over-the-counter initiatives will be successful. Our goal is to provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to the marketplace for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to our clearing houses. We offer clearing services for cleared over-the-counter derivatives, including interest rate swaps, credit default swaps, foreign exchange and commodities. Our strategy also includes extending our over-the-counter services into other asset classes, as well as enhancing our CME ClearPort functionality to support additional products. While we believe the implementation of Dodd-Frank creates new opportunities for us to expand our over-the-counter offerings, the current regulatory environment for trading and clearing these products remains uncertain. We cannot be certain that we will be able to operate profitably under the new legislation. For example, provisions within Dodd-Frank include changes to the CFTC's core principles, specifically Core Principle 9, which could require us to make modifications to the manner in which certain of our contracts trade and/or require that such products be de-listed as futures and re-listed as swaps. Also, numerous capital changes and provisions in Basel III may result in uncleared, bilateral over-the-counter derivatives being less expensive than cleared derivatives.  In addition, a number of market participants and exchanges have developed competing platforms and products, including new swap execution facilities. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete effectively or that our initiatives will be successful. We intend to continue to explore acquisitions, other investments and strategic alliances. We may not be successful in identifying opportunities or in integrating the acquired businesses. Any such transaction may not produce the results we anticipate, which could adversely affect our business and our stock price. We intend to continue to explore and pursue acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company.  We may make acquisitions or investments or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures and other alliances.  The market for such transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of the increasing consolidation in our industry.  As a result, we may be unable to identify strategic opportunities or we may be unable to negotiate or finance future transactions on terms favorable to us.  To the extent the trend of consolidation in our industry continues, we may encounter increased difficulties in identifying growth opportunities.  We may finance future transactions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. The issuance of additional equity in connection with any future transaction could be substantially dilutive to our existing shareholders. The issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially.  The process of integration also may produce unforeseen regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert the attention of management from the ongoing operation of our business.  To the extent we enter into joint ventures and alliances, we may experience difficulties in the development and expansion of the business of any newly formed ventures, in the exercise of influence over the activities of any ventures in which we do not have a controlling interest, as well as encounter potential conflicts with our joint venture or alliance partners.  We may not realize the anticipated growth and other benefits from growth initiatives we have made or will make in the future, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.  We also may be required to take an impairment charge in our financial statements relating to our acquisitions and/or investments, which could negatively affect our stock price. Expansion of our global operations  involves special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could adversely affect our financial results. We plan to continue to expand our global operations, including through CME Clearing Europe, the launch of CME Europe; our European trade repository; directly placing order entry terminals with customers outside the United States; and by relying on distribution systems established by our current and future strategic alliance partners.  We face certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the regulated derivatives exchange business.  These risks include: •becoming subject to extensive regulations and oversight; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;  •general economic and political conditions in the countries from which our markets are accessed, which may have an adverse effect on our volume from those countries; and  •potentially adverse tax consequences.We cannot assure you that we will be successful in marketing our products and services in international markets.  We also may experience difficulty in managing our international operations because of, among other things, competitive conditions overseas, management of foreign exchange risk, established domestic markets, language and cultural differences and economic or political instability.  Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the success of our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results.  21Table of ContentsOur compliance and risk management programs might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. In the normal course of our business, we discuss matters with our regulators raised during regulatory examinations, or we may otherwise become subject to their inquiry and oversight.  The CFTC has broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses or suspend or revoke our designation as a contract market or the registration of any of our officers or employees who violate applicable laws or regulations.  Our ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel.  We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extensive examination and surveillance activity.  In the case of alleged non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to investigations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties or civil lawsuits, including by customers, for damages, which could be significant. Any of these outcomes may adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. In extreme cases, these outcomes could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.  In 2013, the CFTC filed suit against NYMEX and two former employees alleging disclosure of confidential customer information in violation of the Commodity Exchange Act.  Based on our initial review of the complaint, we believe that we have strong factual and legal defenses to the claim.  Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks may not be fully effective. Some of our risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, financial, legal, regulatory and strategic risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. We could be harmed by misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years.  Misconduct by our employees and agents, including employees of GFX Corporation, our wholly-owned subsidiary that engages in proprietary trading to generate liquidity, could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of customers or improper use or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.  Misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.  Our employees and agents also may commit errors that could subject us to financial claims for negligence, as well as regulatory actions, or result in our voluntary assumption of financial liability. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which may materially harm our business. We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world.  We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications. Our patents cover match engine, trader user interface, trading floor support, market data, general technology and clearing house functionalities.  We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, copyright, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.  Notwithstanding the precautions we take to protect our intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights.  For example, in 2012 a former employee of CME Group pled guilty to theft of our trade secrets.  In addition, in the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.  Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources, either of which could adversely affect our business. Any infringement by us on patent rights of others could result in litigation and adversely affect our ability to continue to provide, or increase the cost of providing, our products and electronic execution services. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services.  Our competitors as well as other companies and individuals may obtain, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer.  We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services.  In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications.  These claims of infringement are not uncommon in our industry.  22Table of ContentsIn general, if one or more of our products or services were to infringe on patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing on the patent claims.  We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms.  If we were unable to obtain such licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products or services to avoid infringement, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR CLASS A COMMON STOCK Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and operations and prevent us from fulfilling our debt service obligations. We might still be able to incur more debt, intensifying these risks. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $2.9 billion of total indebtedness, of which $750.0 million was paid down in February 2014, and we had excess borrowing capacity for general corporate purposes under our existing facilities of approximately $1.8 billion. Our indebtedness could have important consequences.  For example, our indebtedness may:  •require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flows to fund capital expenditures, to pursue acquisitions or investments, to pay dividends and for general corporate purposes;  •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions;  •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to our business and industry; and  •place us at a competitive disadvantage against any less leveraged competitors.The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.  In addition, the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness do not significantly limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks described above to the extent that we incur additional debt.  Our U.S. exchanges and clearing house also are required to maintain capital as defined by the CFTC equal to at least twelve months of their applicable projected operating expenses.  Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. Our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies.  These rating agencies regularly evaluate us.  Their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.  In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the financial markets over the last few years, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings.  In the past, we have experienced ratings downgrades.  Our failure to maintain our ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding, and increase our cost of capital.  Additionally, if our ratings are downgraded below investment grade due to a change of control, we are required to make an offer to repurchase all of our fixed-rate notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  Our investment in BM&FBOVESPA subjects us to investment and currency risk. We own an interest in BM&FBOVESPA representing approximately 5% of its outstanding shares, which had a fair value of $473.1 million as of December 31, 2013.  As an exchange, its ability to maintain or expand its contract volume and operate its business is subject to the same types of risks to which we are subject.  Additionally, its stock is valued in Brazilian real, which subjects us to currency risk.  There is no guarantee that our investment in BM&FBOVESPA will be profitable. Any impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets or investments may result in material, non-cash writedowns and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and shareholders' equity. In connection with our acquisitions and investments, including our mergers with CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings, we have recorded goodwill and identifiable intangible assets.  We assess goodwill and intangible assets for impairment by applying a fair value test looking at historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise.  In the past, we have recorded impairment charges in connection with some of our investments, including our investment in BM&FBOVESPA.  We may continue to experience future events that result in impairments.  The risk of impairment losses may increase to the extent our market capitalization and earnings decline.  An impairment of the value of our existing goodwill and intangible assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results and could have an adverse impact on our ability to satisfy the financial ratios or other covenants under our existing or future debt agreements.  23Table of ContentsOur quarterly operating results fluctuate due to seasonality. As a result, you will not be able to rely on our operating results in any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance. We have historically experienced relatively higher contract volume during the first and second quarters and sequentially lower contract volume in the third and fourth quarters.  As a result of this seasonality, you will not be able to rely on our operating results in any particular period as an indication of our future performance.  If we fail to meet securities analysts' expectations regarding our operating results, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Our average rate per contract is subject to fluctuation due to a number of factors. As a result, you will not be able to rely on our average rate per contract in any particular period as an indication of our future average rate per contract. Our average rate per contract, which impacts our operating results, is subject to fluctuation due to shifts in the mix of products traded, the trading venue and the mix of customers (whether the customer receives member or non-member fees or participates in one of our various incentive programs) and the impact of our tiered pricing structure.  For example, we earn a higher rate per contract for trades executed electronically than for trades executed on the trading floor.  In addition, our members and participants in our various incentive programs generally are charged lower fees than our non-member customers.  Variation in each of these factors is difficult to predict and will have an impact on our average rate per contract in the particular period.  Because of this fluctuation, you may not be able to rely on our average rate per contract in any particular period as an indication of our future average rate per contract.  If we fail to meet securities analysts' expectations regarding our operating results, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Our cost structure is largely fixed.  If our revenues decline and we are unable to reduce our costs, our profitability will be adversely affected. Our cost structure is largely fixed.  We base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. If demand for our products and services and our resulting revenues decline, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis.  In that event, our profitability would be adversely affected. Seventeen of our board members own trading rights or are officers or directors of firms that own trading rights on our exchanges.  As members, these individuals may have interests that differ from or conflict with those of shareholders who are not also members.  Our dependence on the trading and clearing activities of our members, combined with their rights to elect directors, may enable them to exert substantial influence over the operation of our business. Seventeen of our directors own or are officers or directors of firms that own trading rights on our exchanges.  We are dependent on the revenues from the trading and clearing activities of our members. In 2013, 80% of our contract volume was derived from our members.  This dependence may give them substantial influence over how we operate our business. Many of our members and clearing firms derive a substantial portion of their income from their trading or clearing activities on or through our exchanges.  In addition, trading rights on our exchanges have substantial independent value.  The amount of income that members derive from their trading, brokering and clearing activities and the value of their trading rights are, in part, dependent on the fees they are charged to trade, broker, clear and access our markets, and the rules and structure of our markets. As a result, members may not have the same economic interests as holders of our Class A common stock.  In addition, our members may have differing interests among themselves depending on the roles they serve in our markets, their methods of trading and the products they trade.  Consequently, members may advocate that we enhance and protect their clearing and trading opportunities and the value of their trading privileges over their investment in our Class A common stock, if any. Our members have been granted special rights, which protect their trading privileges, require that we maintain open outcry trading until volumes are not significant and, in the case of our Class B shareholders, provide them with special board representation. Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership benefit protections.  Additionally, our Class B shareholders, who are members of our CME exchange, also are entitled to elect six directors to our board even if their Class A share ownership interest is very small or non-existent.  In connection with these rights, our ability to take certain actions that we may deem to be in the best interests of the company and its shareholders, including actions relating to the operation of our open outcry trading facilities and certain pricing decisions, may be limited by the rights of our members.  ITEM 1B