Item 1A.                Risk
Factors Relating to Our Business

Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K are some of the principal risks and uncertainties that
could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any
forward-looking statements contained in this Report. In addition, future
results could be materially affected by general industry and market conditions,
changes in laws or accounting rules, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and
political conditions, including a global economic slow-down, fluctuation of
interest rates or currency exchange rates, terrorism, political unrest or
international conflicts, political instability or major health concerns,
natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic and business
conditions. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our
cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report,
including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our
business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section
in Item 7 below, “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” should be
considered in addition to the following statements.

Our business is affected by the cyclical nature of the
markets we serve.

Our financial performance depends, in large part, on
varying conditions in the markets and geographies that we serve. Demand in
these markets and geographies fluctuates in response to overall economic
conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rate levels and
fuel costs. Our sales are also impacted by OEM inventory levels and production
schedules and stoppages. Economic downturns in the markets we serve generally
result in reductions in sales and pricing of our products, which could reduce
future earnings and cash flow.

Our products are subject to substantial government
regulation.

Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and
regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards
imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies, such as the CARB, and other
regulatory agencies around the world. In some cases, we may be required to
develop new products to comply with new regulations, particularly those
relating to air emissions. For example, under the terms of a consent decree
that we and a number of other engine manufacturers entered into with the DOJ,
the CARB and the EPA, we were required to develop new engines to comply with
stringent emissions standards by October 1, 2002. While we were able to
meet this deadline, our ability to comply with other existing and future
regulatory standards will be essential for us to maintain our position in the
engine markets we serve. Currently, we believe we are on schedule to meet all
deadlines for known future regulatory standards.

We have made, and will be required to continue to
make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these
regulatory standards. Further, the successful development and introduction of
new and enhanced products are subject to risks, such as delays in product
development, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical and manufacturing
difficulties. Any failure to comply with regulatory standards affecting our
products could subject us to fines or penalties, and could require us to cease
production of any non-compliant engine or to recall any engines produced and
sold in violation of the applicable standards. See “Business—Environmental
Compliance—Product Environmental Compliance” for a complete discussion of the
environmental laws and regulations that affect our products.


 19 





Our products are subject to recall for performance
related issues.

We are at risk for product recall costs. Product
recall costs are costs incurred when we decide, either voluntarily or
involuntarily, to recall a product through a formal campaign to solicit the
return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance issue.
Costs typically include the cost of the product, part or component being
replaced, customer cost of the recall and labor to remove and replace the
defective part or component. When a recall decision is made, we estimate the
cost of the recall and record a charge to earnings in that period in accordance
with FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5,  “Accounting
for Contingencies.”  In making this estimate, judgment is required as to
the quantity or volume to be recalled, the total cost of the recall campaign,
the ultimate negotiated sharing of the cost between us and the customer and, in
some cases, the extent to which the supplier of the part or component will
share in the recall cost. As a result, these estimates are subject to change.

We cannot assure that our truck manufacturers and OEM
customers will continue to outsource their engine supply needs.

Some of our engine customers, including Volvo and
DaimlerChrysler, are truck manufacturers or OEMs that manufacture engines for
their own products. Despite their engine manufacturing abilities, these customers
have chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due to the
quality of our engine products and in order to reduce costs, eliminate
production risks and maintain company focus. However, we cannot assure that
these customers will continue to outsource engine production in the future.
Increased levels of production insourcing could result from a number of
factors, such as shifts in our customers’ business strategies, acquisition by a
customer of another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers
to meet product specifications and the emergence of low-cost production
opportunities in foreign countries. Any significant reduction in the level of
engine production outsourcing from our truck manufacturer or OEM customers
could significantly impact our revenues and, accordingly, have a material
adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our largest customer accounts for a significant share
of our business.

Sales to DaimlerChrysler accounted for approximately
12 percent of our consolidated net sales for 2005, primarily relating to sales
of our ISB engine for use in the Dodge Ram truck and sales of our heavy-and
medium-duty engines to its Freightliner division. While a significant amount of
our sales to DaimlerChrysler are under long-term supply agreements, these
agreements provide for the supply of DaimlerChrysler’s engine requirements for
particular models and not a specific number of engines. Accordingly, the loss
of DaimlerChrysler as a customer or a significant decline in the production
levels for the vehicles in which DaimlerChrysler uses our products would have
an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party
suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages.

We obtain materials and manufactured components from
third-party suppliers. A significant number of our suppliers representing 75 to
85 percent of our total raw material and component purchasers in 2005 are the
sole source for a particular supply item, although the majority of these
materials and components can be obtained from other suppliers. Any delay in our
suppliers’ abilities to provide us with necessary materials and components may
affect our capabilities at a number of our manufacturing locations, or may
require us to seek alternative supply sources. Delays in obtaining supplies may
result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers including capacity
constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular
supplier, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or
acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our
ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.


 20 





We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and
other labor matters.

As of December 31, 2005, we employed
approximately 33,500 persons worldwide. Approximately 12,500 of our employees
worldwide are represented by various unions under collective bargaining
agreements with various unions that expire between 2006 and 2010. While we have
no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages and other
labor matters, we cannot assure that future issues with our labor unions will
be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes,
further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or
our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may
limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our
customers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs
experienced by our customers could result in slow-downs or closures at vehicle
assembly plants where our engines are installed. If one or more of our
customers experience a material work stoppage, it could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our products involve risks of exposure to product
liability claims.

We face an inherent business risk of exposure to
product liability claims in the event that our products’ failure to perform to
specifications results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, bodily injury
and/or death. We may experience material product liability losses in the
future. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product
liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable
terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate
coverage against product liability claims. In addition, product liability
claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management
and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate
outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have a
material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition and cash flows. In addition, even if we are successful in defending
against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our
customers to lose confidence in our products and our Company.

Our operations are subject to extensive environmental
laws and regulations.

Our plants and operations are subject to increasingly
stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which
we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air,
discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
treatment and disposal of waste materials. While we believe that we are in
compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and
regulations, we cannot assure that we will not be adversely impacted by costs,
liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired
operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be
adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the
cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs
at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another
location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable
for the contamination, and the amount of such liability could be material.

We are exposed to political, economic and other risks
that arise from operating a multinational business.

Approximately 51
percent of our net sales for 2005 were derived from sources outside the United
States. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and
other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks
include:

·       the
difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign
legal systems;

·       trade
protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;

·       tax
rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the United States
and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings;

·       the
imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;


 21 





·       difficulty
in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign
labor regulations;

·       required
compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and

·       changes
in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate,
particularly in emerging markets.

As we continue to expand our business globally, our
success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively
manage these and other risks. We cannot assure that these and other factors
will not have a material adverse affect on our international operations or on
our business as a whole.

We are subject to currency exchange rate and other
related risks.

We conduct operations in many areas of the world
involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject
to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in
currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, since our
financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency
exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will
continue to have, an impact on our earnings. While we customarily enter into
financial transactions to address these risks, we cannot assure that currency
exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations
and financial condition. In addition, while the use of currency hedging
instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in
currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego
the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange
rates.

We also face risks arising from the imposition of
exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our
ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends
and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or
conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a
diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country
instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue
for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition in any given period.

We face significant competition in the markets we
serve.

The markets in which we
operate are highly competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of other
manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our
products primarily compete on the basis of price, performance, fuel economy,
speed of delivery, quality and customer support. There can be no assurance that
our products will be able to compete successfully with the products of these
other companies. Any failure by us to compete effectively in the markets we
serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. For a more complete discussion of the
competitive environment in which each of our segments operates, see “Business—Our
Operating Segments.”

Item 1B