ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors        

        Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are some of the principal risks and uncertainties
that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this Report and could individually or combined have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, financial position and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report, including
statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section above, "CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING
INFORMATION," should be considered in addition to the following statements. 

 The discovery of any significant problems with our new engine platforms in North America could materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows.  

        The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and California Air Resources Board (CARB) have certified all of our 2011
on-highway and off-highway engines, which utilize selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technology to meet requisite emission levels. We introduced SCR technology into our engine platforms
in 2010. The effective performance of SCR technology and the overall performance of these engine platforms impact a number of our operating segments and remain crucial to our success in North America.
While the model year 2010 engine platforms have performed well in the field and the 2011 model year engines have undergone extensive testing, the discovery of any significant problems in these
platforms could result in recall campaigns, increased warranty costs, reputational risk and brand risk. 

 Another downturn in our markets could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows again.  

        Although the emerging markets, including China, India and Brazil, recovered in 2010, the global economy remains fragile, with North
America and other developed countries continuing to experience sluggish results and certain countries in Europe experiencing a debt crisis. If the global economy were to take another significant
downturn, depending upon the length, duration and severity of such a downturn, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow would almost certainly be materially adversely affected
again. Specifically, our revenues would likely decrease, we may be forced to consider further restructuring actions, we may need to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, our days sales
outstanding may increase and we could experience impairments to assets of certain of our businesses. 

 Another downturn in the North American and European automotive industries could adversely impact our business.  


        A number of companies in the global automotive industry have experienced significant financial difficulties in recent years. In North
America, General Motors Corporation ("GM"), Ford Motor Company and Chrysler Group, LLC ("Chrysler") experienced declining markets; furthermore, GM and Chrysler previously filed for, and then
exited, bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code and accepted substantial monetary infusions from the U.S. government. Automakers across Europe and Japan also experienced
difficulties from a weakened economy and tightening credit 

17




 


<A
HREF="#bg45401a_main_toc">Table of Contents



markets.
Because many of our suppliers also supply automotive industry participants, the difficult automotive industry conditions also adversely affected our supply base. During the recession, lower
production levels for some of our key suppliers, increases in certain raw material, commodity and energy costs and the global credit market crisis resulted in severe financial distress among many
companies within the automotive supply base. A return to financial distress within the automotive industry and our shared supply base and/or the subsequent bankruptcy of one or more additional
automakers may lead to further supplier bankruptcies, commercial disputes, supply chain interruptions, supplier requests for company sponsored capital support or a collapse of the supply chain. 

 We rely on income from investees that we do not directly control.  

        Our net income includes significant equity, royalty and interest income from investees that we do not directly control. For 2010, we
recognized $351 million of equity, royalty and interest income from investees, compared to $214 million in 2009. The majority of our equity, royalty and interest income from investees
comes from our 12 unconsolidated North American distributors, and from two of our joint ventures in China, Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. ("DCEC") and Chongqing Cummins Engine
Company, Ltd. ("CCEC"). Our equity ownership interests in our unconsolidated North American distributors generally range from 30 percent to 50 percent. We have 50 percent
equity ownership interests in DCEC and CCEC. As a result, although a significant percentage of our net income is derived from these unconsolidated entities, we do not unilaterally control their
management or operations, which puts a substantial portion of our net income at risk from the actions or inactions of these other entities. A significant reduction in the level of contribution by
these entities to our net income would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 


 Government regulation could adversely affect our business.  

        Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing emission and noise, including standards imposed by
the EPA, the European Union, state regulatory agencies, such as the CARB and other regulatory agencies around the world. We have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant capital and
research expenditures to comply with these regulatory standards. Developing engines to meet changing government regulatory requirements, with different implementation timelines and emission
requirements, makes developing engines efficiently for multiple markets complicated and could result in substantial additional costs that may be difficult to recover in certain markets. In some cases,
we may be required to develop new products to comply with new regulations, particularly those relating to air emission. For example, we were required to develop new engines to comply with stringent
emission standards in the U.S. by January 1, 2010, including the reduction of NOx emission to near zero levels, among other requirements. While we were able to meet this and previous deadlines,
our ability to comply with other existing and future regulatory standards will be essential for us to maintain our position in the engine markets we serve. Further, the successful development and
introduction of new and enhanced products in order to comply with new regulatory requirements are subject to other risks, such as delays in product development, cost over-runs and
unanticipated technical and manufacturing difficulties. 

 Our truck manufacturers and OEM customers may not continue to outsource their engine supply needs.  

        Several of our engine customers, including PACCAR Inc., Volvo AB and Chrysler, are truck manufacturers or OEMs that
manufacture engines for some of their own products. Despite their engine manufacturing abilities, these customers have historically chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due to
the quality of our engine products, our emission capability, our systems integration, their customers' preferences, their desire for cost reductions, their desire for eliminating production risks and
their desire to maintain company focus. However, there can be no assurance that these customers will continue to outsource, or outsource as much of, their engine production in the 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg45401a_main_toc">Table of Contents



future.
Increased levels of OEM vertical integration could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers' business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another engine
manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet product specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. Any significant reduction
in the level of engine production outsourcing from our truck manufacturer or OEM customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 Our products are exposed to variability in material and commodity costs.  

        Our businesses establish prices with our customers in accordance with contractual time frames; however, the timing of market price
increases may prevent us from passing these additional costs on to our customers through timely pricing actions. Additionally, higher material and commodity costs around the world may offset our
efforts to reduce our cost structure. While we customarily enter into financial transactions to address some of these risks (i.e. copper, platinum and palladium), there can be no assurance that
commodity price fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, while the use of commodity price hedging instruments may provide us
with protection from adverse fluctuations in commodity prices, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in price. As a result,
higher material and commodity costs, as well as hedging these commodity costs during periods of decreasing prices, could result in declining margins. 

 We are subject to currency exchange rate and other related risks.  

        We conduct operations in many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to
currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S.
dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. While we customarily enter into
financial transactions to address these risks, there can be no assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash
flows. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially
forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 


        We
also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or
to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds
denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. 

 We are vulnerable to supply shortages from single-sourced suppliers.  

        During 2010, we single sourced approximately 60 to 70 percent of the total types of parts in our product designs. Any delay in
our suppliers' deliveries may adversely affect our operations at multiple manufacturing locations, forcing us to seek alternative supply sources to avoid serious disruptions. Delays may be caused by
factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, economic downturns, availability of credit, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers'
allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any extended delay in receiving critical supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers. 

19





 

<A
HREF="#bg45401a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 Our products are subject to recall for performance or safety-related issues.  

        Our products may be subject to recall for performance or safety-related issues. Product recalls subject us to harm to our reputation,
loss of current and future customers, reduced revenue and product recall costs. Product recall costs are incurred when we decide, either voluntarily or involuntarily, to recall a product through a
formal campaign to solicit the return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance issue. 

 We face significant competition in the markets we serve.  

        The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that
produce and sell similar products. We primarily compete in the market with diesel engines and related diesel products; however, new technologies continue to be developed for gasoline and other
technologies and we will continue to face new competition from these expanding technologies. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality
and customer support. We also face competitors in some emerging markets who have established local practices and long standing relationships with participants in these markets. There can be no
assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with the products of other companies and in other markets. For a more complete discussion of the competitive environment in which each
of our segments operates, see "Operating Segments" in "Item 1 Business." 

 We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business.  

        Approximately 64 percent of our net sales for 2010 were attributable to customers outside the U.S., compared to
52 percent in 2009. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks
include: 



•the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;  
•trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;   
•the imposition of taxes on foreign income and tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S.;  
•the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;   
•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations;  
•required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and   
•changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. 


        As
we continue to operate our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other related risks. There can be no
assurance that the consequences of these and other factors relating to our multinational operations will not have a material adverse effect upon us. 

 Significant declines in future financial and stock market conditions could diminish our pension plan asset performance and adversely impact our results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows.  

        We sponsor both funded and unfunded domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and other retirement plans. Our pension expense and
the required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rates of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to
measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the discount rate at which future projected and accumulated pension obligations are discounted to a 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg45401a_main_toc">Table of Contents



present
value. We could experience increased pension expense due to a combination of factors, including the decreased investment performance of pension plan assets, decreases in the discount rate and
changes in our assumptions relating to the expected return on plan assets. 

        Significant
declines in future financial and stock market conditions could cause material losses in our pension plan assets, which could result in increased pension expense in future
years and adverse changes to our financial condition. Depending upon the severity of market declines and government regulatory changes, we may be legally obligated to make pension payments in the U.S.
and perhaps other countries, and these contributions could be material. 

 We face reputational and legal risk from operation outside the U.S. and affiliations with joint venture partners  

        Several of our foreign subsidiaries, affiliates and joint venture partners are located outside the U.S. with laws, rules and business
practices that differ from those of the U.S. The activities of these entities may not comply with U.S. laws or customs or our Code of Business Conduct and actions by these entities may cause us legal
or reputational risk if they violate applicable laws, rules or business practices. 

 We face the challenge of increasing our capacity and ramping up our production at the appropriate pace as we exit the downturn.  


        Prior to the recession, we experienced capacity constraints and longer lead times for certain products. Accurately forecasting our
expected volumes and appropriately adjusting our capacity as we exit the downturn have been, and will continue to be, important factors in determining our results of operations. We cannot guarantee
that we will be able to increase manufacturing capacity to a level that meets demand for our products, which could prevent us from meeting increased customer demand and could harm our business.
However, if we overestimate our demand and overbuild our capacity, we may have significantly underutilized assets and we may experience reduced margins. If we do not accurately align our manufacturing
capabilities with demand it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 Our business is exposed to risks of product liability claims.  

        We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products' failure to perform to
specification results, or is alleged to result in property damage, bodily injury and/or death. We may experience material product liability losses in the future. While we maintain insurance coverage
with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage
against product liability claims. In addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time,
regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a significant product liability claim could have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, even if we are successful in defending
against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and us. 

 We may need to write off significant investments in our new light-duty diesel engine platforms if customer commitments further deteriorate.  

        We began development of a new light-duty diesel engine platform in July 2006 to be used in a variety of on- and
off-highway applications. Since that time, and as of December 31, 2010, we have capitalized investments of approximately $218 million. Market uncertainty due to the global
recession resulted in some customers delaying or cancelling their vehicle programs, while others remain active. If customer expectations or volume projections further deteriorate from our current
levels and we do not 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg45401a_main_toc">Table of Contents



identify
new customers, we may need to recognize an impairment charge and write the assets down to net realizable value. 

 Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations.  

        Our plants and operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we
operate, including laws and regulations governing air emission, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. While we believe
that we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with
respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the
cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of
hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination and the amount of such liability could be material. 

 Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could adversely affect our
profitability.  

        We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions. Our income tax provision and cash tax liability in
the future could be adversely affected by changes in the distribution of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities,
changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. The carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the U.S., is
dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require
an extended period of time to resolve and can be highly judgmental. Tax authorities may disagree with certain tax reporting positions taken by us and, as a result, assess additional taxes against us.
We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of these or subsequent tax audits
could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision. 

 We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters.  

        As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 39,200 persons worldwide. Approximately 15,500 of our employees worldwide are
represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2011 and 2015. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages and other labor
matters, there can be no assurance that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, work stoppages, or other types of conflicts with
labor unions or our employees. Any of these consequences may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers and suppliers
have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by our customers or suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures that would have a material adverse
effect on our operations. 

22






<A
NAME="page_di45401_1_23"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

 Our financial statements are subject to changes in accounting standards that could adversely impact our profitability or financial position.  


        Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(GAAP), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including
the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Recently, accounting standard setters issued new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to revenue recognition
and lease accounting as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and
quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure
process and, therefore, their effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current
accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the reported results of operations and financial position. 

<A
NAME="di45401_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B