ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors        

        Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are some of the principal risks and uncertainties
that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this Report and could individually, or in combination, have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report,
including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section above, "CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION," should be considered in addition to the following statements. 

 A sustained slowdown or significant downturn in our markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  

        The global economy continued to slow throughout 2012 as we experienced declining demand in emerging markets, including Brazil and
China, and a decline in India as the result of foreign currency fluctuations. The developed economies, including the U.S. economy, experienced slowing demand as the year progressed and continued to
experience economic uncertainty driven by unresolved federal tax and budget issues, while Europe continued to struggle as the result of lingering high unemployment, concerns over European sovereign
debt issues and the tightening of government budgets. If the global economy or some of our significant markets encounter a sustained slowdown or our emerging markets, particularly China and Brazil,
don't recover to stronger growth rates; depending upon the length, duration and severity of such a slowdown, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow would almost certainly be
materially adversely affected. Specifically, our revenues would likely decrease, we may be forced to consider further restructuring actions, we may need to increase our allowance for doubtful
accounts, our days sales outstanding may increase and we could experience impairments to assets of certain of our businesses. 

 A slowdown in infrastructure development could adversely affect our business.  

        Infrastructure development has been a significant driver of our business in recent years, especially in the emerging markets of China
and Brazil. In 2012, infrastructure spending in emerging markets steadily declined throughout the year. General weakness in economic growth or the perception that infrastructure has been overbuilt
could lead to a further decline in infrastructure spending. Any sustained downturns in infrastructure development that result from these or other circumstances could adversely affect our business. 

 Unpredictability in the adoption, implementation and enforcement of increasingly stringent emission standards by multiple jurisdictions around the world could adversely
affect our business.  

        Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing emission and noise, including standards imposed by
the EPA, the European Union, state regulatory agencies (such as the CARB) and other regulatory agencies around the world. We have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant capital
and research expenditures to comply with these emission standards. Developing engines to meet numerous changing government regulatory requirements, with different implementation timelines and emission
requirements, makes developing engines efficiently for multiple markets complicated and could result in substantial additional costs that may be difficult to recover in certain markets. In some cases,
we may be required to develop new products to comply with new regulations, particularly those relating to air emission. While we have met previous deadlines, our ability to comply with other existing
and future regulatory standards will be essential for us to maintain our position in the engine markets we serve. The successful development
and introduction of new and enhanced products in order to comply with new regulatory requirements are subject to other risks, such 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg11801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

as
delays in product development, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical and manufacturing difficulties. 

        In
addition to these risks, the nature and timing of government implementation and enforcement of increasingly stringent emission standards around the world is unpredictable and subject
to change, or delays which could result in the products we developed or modified to comply with these standards becoming unnecessary or becoming necessary later than expected and in some cases
negating our competitive advantage. This in turn can delay, diminish or eliminate the expected return on capital and research expenditures that we have invested in such products and may adversely
affect our perceived competitive advantage in being an early, advanced developer of compliant engines. 

 We derive significant income from investees that we do not directly control.  

        Our net income includes significant equity, royalty and interest income from investees that we do not directly control. For 2012, we
recognized $384 million of equity, royalty and interest income from investees, compared to $416 million in 2011. The majority of our equity, royalty and interest income from investees is
from our 11 unconsolidated North American distributors and from two of our joint ventures in China, Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) and Chongqing Cummins Engine
Company, Ltd. (CCEC). Our equity ownership interests in our unconsolidated North American distributors generally range from 30 percent to 50 percent. We have 50 percent
equity ownership interests in DCEC and CCEC. As a result, although a significant percentage of our net income is derived from these unconsolidated entities, we do not unilaterally control their
management or their operations, which puts a substantial portion of our net income at risk from the actions or inactions of these other entities. A significant reduction in the level of contribution
by these entities to our net income would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 Our truck manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) customers may not continue to outsource their engine supply needs.  

        Several of our engine customers, including PACCAR, Volvo AB, Navistar International Corporation and Chrysler, are truck manufacturers
or OEMs that manufacture engines for some of their own products. Despite their own engine manufacturing abilities, these customers have historically chosen to outsource certain types of engine
production to us due to the quality of our engine products, our emission capabilities, our systems integration, their customers' preferences, their desire for cost reductions, their desire for
eliminating production risks and their desire to maintain company focus. However, there can be no assurance that these customers will continue to outsource, or outsource as much of, their engine
production in the future. Increased levels of OEM vertical integration could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers' business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another
engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet product specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. Any significant
reduction in the level of engine production outsourcing from our truck manufacturer or OEM customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 


 A downturn in the North American truck industry or other factors negatively affecting any of our truck OEM customers could materially adversely impact our results of
operations.  

        We make significant sales of engines and components to a few large truck OEMs in North America. If the North American truck
market suffers a significant downturn, or if one of our large truck OEM customers experienced financial distress or bankruptcy, such circumstance would likely lead to significant reductions in our
revenues and earnings, commercial disputes, receivable collection issues, and other negative consequences that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg11801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 The discovery of any significant problems with our new engine platforms in North America could materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and
cash flow.  

        The EPA and CARB have certified all of our 2012/2013 on-highway and off-highway engines, which utilize SCR
technology to meet requisite emission levels. We introduced SCR technology into our engine platforms in 2010. The effective performance of SCR technology and the overall performance of these engine
platforms impact
a number of our operating segments and remain crucial to our success in North America. While these 2010 engine platforms have performed well in the field, the discovery of any significant problems in
these platforms could result in recall campaigns, increased warranty costs, reputational risk and brand risk, and could materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and
cash flow. 

 We are subject to currency exchange rate and other related risks.  

        We conduct operations in many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to
currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S.
dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. While we customarily enter into
financial transactions that attempt to address these risks and many of our supply agreements with customers include currency exchange rate adjustment provisions, there can be no assurance that
currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with some protection from adverse
fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 


        We
also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or
to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds
denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. 

 We are vulnerable to supply shortages from single-sourced suppliers.  

        During 2012, we single sourced approximately 60 to 70 percent of the total types of parts in our product designs. Any delay in
our suppliers' deliveries may adversely affect our operations at multiple manufacturing locations, forcing us to seek alternative supply sources to avoid serious disruptions. Delays may be caused by
factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, economic downturns, availability of credit, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers'
allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies, natural disasters or acts of war or terrorism. Any extended delay in receiving critical supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to
our customers and our results of operations. 


 Our products are exposed to variability in material and commodity costs.  

        Our businesses establish prices with our customers in accordance with contractual time frames; however, the timing of material and
commodity market price increases may prevent us from passing these additional costs on to our customers through timely pricing actions. Additionally, higher material and commodity costs around the
world may offset our efforts to reduce our cost structure. While we customarily enter into financial transactions and contractual pricing adjustment provisions with our customers that attempt to
address some of these risks (notably with respect to copper, platinum and palladium), there can be no assurance that commodity price fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations.
In addition, while the use of commodity price hedging instruments may provide 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg11801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

us
with some protection from adverse fluctuations in commodity prices, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in price. As a
result, higher material and commodity costs, as well as hedging these commodity costs during periods of decreasing prices, could result in declining margins. 

 Our products are subject to recall for performance or safety-related issues.  

        Our products may be subject to recall for performance or safety-related issues. Product recalls subject us to harm to our reputation,
loss of current and future customers, reduced revenue and product recall costs. Product recall costs are incurred when we decide, either voluntarily or involuntarily, to recall a product through a
formal campaign to solicit the return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance issue. Any significant product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

 We face significant competition in the markets we serve.  

        The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that
produce and sell similar products. We primarily compete in the market with diesel engines and related diesel products; however, new technologies continue to be developed for gasoline, natural gas and
other technologies and we will continue to face new competition from these expanding technologies. Our products primarily compete
on the basis of price, performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality and customer support. We also face competitors in some emerging markets who have established local practices and long
standing relationships with participants in these markets. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with the products of other companies and in other markets.
For a more complete discussion of the competitive environment in which each of our segments operates, see "Operating Segments" in "Item 1 Business." 

 Increasing global competition among our customers may affect our existing customer relationships and restrict our ability to benefit from some of our customers' growth.  


        As our customers in emerging markets continue to grow in size and scope, they are increasingly seeking to export their products to
other countries. This has meant greater demand for our advanced engine technologies to help these customers meet the more stringent emissions requirements of developed markets, as well as greater
demand for access to our distribution systems for purposes of equipment servicing. As these emerging market customers enter into and begin to compete in more developed markets, they may increasingly
begin to compete with our existing customers in these markets. Our further aid to emerging market customers could adversely affect our relationships with developed market customers and, as a result,
we may be pressured to restrict sale or support of some of our products in the areas of increased competition. In addition, to the extent the competition does not correspond to overall growth in
demand, we may see little or no benefit from this type of expansion by our emerging market customers. 

 We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business.  

        Approximately 53 percent of our net sales for 2012 and 59 percent in 2011 were attributable to customers outside the U.S.
Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include:



•the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;  
•trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg11801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•the imposition of taxes on foreign income and tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S.;  
•the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; 
•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations;  
•required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and  
•changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. 


        As
we continue to operate our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other related risks. There can be no
assurance that the consequences of these and other factors relating to our multinational operations will not have a material adverse effect upon us. 

 Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could adversely affect our
profitability.  

        We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions. Our income tax provision and cash tax liability in
the future could be adversely affected by changes in the distribution of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities,
changes to our assertions regarding permanent re-investment of our foreign earnings, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation
process. The carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. We are also subject to ongoing tax
audits. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve and can be highly judgmental. Tax authorities may disagree with certain tax reporting positions
taken by us and, as a result, assess additional taxes against us. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. The amounts
ultimately paid upon resolution of these or subsequent tax audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material
impact on our tax provision. 

 We are exposed to risks arising from the price and availability of energy.  

        The level of demand for our products and services is influenced in multiple ways by the price and availability of energy. High energy
costs generally drive greater demand for better fuel economy in almost all countries in which we operate. Some of our engine products have been developed with a primary purpose of offering fuel
economy improvements, and if energy costs decrease or increase less than expected, demand for these products may likewise decrease. The relative unavailability of electricity in some emerging market
countries also influences demand for our electricity generating products, such as our diesel generators. If these countries add energy capacity by expanding their power grids at a rate equal to or
faster than the growth in demand for energy, the demand for our generating products could also decrease or increase less than would otherwise be the case. 

 Our global operations are subject to laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs and create reputational and legal risk.  


        Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of commercial and trade regulations around the
world. Recent years have seen an increase in the development and enforcement of laws regarding trade compliance and anti-corruption such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and
similar laws from other countries. Our numerous foreign subsidiaries, affiliates and joint venture partners are governed by laws, rules and business practices that 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg11801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

differ
from those of the U.S. The activities of these entities may not comply with U.S. laws or business practices or our Code of Business Conduct. Violations of these laws may result in severe
criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. We cannot predict the nature,
scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. 


 We face the challenge of accurately aligning our capacity with our demand.  

        We can experience capacity constraints and longer lead times for certain products in times of growing demand while we can also
experience idle capacity as economies slow or demand for certain products decline. Accurately forecasting our expected volumes and appropriately adjusting our capacity have been, and will continue to
be, important factors in determining our results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase manufacturing capacity to a level that meets demand for our products, which could
prevent us from meeting increased customer demand and could harm our business. However, if we overestimate our demand and overbuild our capacity, we may have significantly underutilized assets and we
may experience reduced margins. If we do not accurately align our manufacturing capabilities with demand it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 Our business is exposed to risks of product liability claims.  

        We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products' failure to perform to
specification results or is alleged to result in property damage, bodily injury and/or death. We may experience material product liability losses in the future. While we maintain insurance coverage
with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage
against product liability claims. In addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time,
regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a significant product liability claim could have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, even if we are successful in defending
against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and us. 

 We may need to write off significant investments in our new North American light-duty diesel engine platform if customer commitments further deteriorate.  

        We began development of a new North American light-duty diesel engine platform in July 2006 to be used in a variety of
on- and off-highway applications. Since that time, and as of December 31, 2012, we have capitalized investments of approximately $233 million. Market uncertainty
due to the global recession resulted in some customers delaying or cancelling their vehicle programs, while others remain active. If customer expectations or volume projections further deteriorate
from our current expected levels and we do not identify new customers, we may need to recognize an impairment charge and write the assets down to net realizable value. 

 Our operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations.  

        Our plants and operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we
operate, including laws and regulations governing air emission, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. While we believe
that we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with
respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under either 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg11801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

present
laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances
occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination and the amount
of such liability could be material. 

 Significant declines in future financial and stock market conditions could diminish our pension plan asset performance and adversely impact our results of operations,
financial condition and cash flow.  

        We sponsor both funded and unfunded domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and other retirement plans. Our pension expense and
the required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rates of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to
measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the discount rate at which future projected and accumulated pension obligations are discounted to a present value. We could experience
increased pension expense due to a combination of factors, including the decreased investment performance of pension plan assets, decreases in the discount rate and changes in our assumptions relating
to the expected return on plan assets. 

        Significant
declines in future financial and stock market conditions could cause material losses in our pension plan assets, which could result in increased pension expense in future
years and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Depending upon the severity of market declines and government regulatory changes, we may be legally obligated
to make pension payments in the U.S. and perhaps other countries and these contributions could be material. 

 We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters.  

        As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 46,000 persons worldwide. Approximately 15,750 of our employees worldwide are
represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2013 and 2015. While we have no reason to believe that we will be materially impacted by work stoppages or
other labor matters, there can be no assurance that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, work stoppages, or other types of
conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these consequences may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers
and suppliers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by our customers or suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures that would have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 

 Our financial statements are subject to changes in accounting standards that could adversely impact our profitability or financial position.  

        Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(GAAP), which are periodically revised
and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards
Board. Recently, accounting standard setters issued new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to revenue recognition and lease accounting as well as to
issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on
Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore,
their effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that
we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the reported results of operations and financial position. 

26






<A
NAME="page_dg11801_1_27"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

<A
NAME="dg11801_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B