ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

RISKS RELATED TO CMS ENERGY

CMS ENERGY DEPENDS ON DIVIDENDS FROM ITS SUBSIDIARIES TO MEET ITS DEBT SERVICE
OBLIGATIONS.

     Due to its holding company structure, CMS Energy depends on dividends from
its subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations. Restrictions contained in
Consumers' preferred stock provisions and other legal restrictions, such as
certain terms in its articles of incorporation, limit Consumers' ability to pay
dividends or acquire its own stock from CMS Energy. As of December 31, 2005, the
most restrictive provisions in its financing documents allowed Consumers to pay
an aggregate of $300 million in dividends to CMS Energy during any year. At
December 31, 2005 Consumers had $179 million of unrestricted retained earnings
available to pay common stock dividends. If sufficient dividends are not paid to
CMS Energy by its subsidiaries, CMS Energy may not be able to generate the funds
necessary to fulfill its cash obligations, thereby adversely affecting its
liquidity and financial condition.

CMS ENERGY HAS SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS THAT COULD LIMIT ITS FINANCIAL
FLEXIBILITY AND HENCE ITS ABILITY TO MEET ITS DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS.

     As of December 31, 2005, CMS Energy had outstanding approximately $2.527
billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, including approximately $178
million of subordinated indebtedness relating to its convertible preferred
securities but excluding approximately $4.888 billion of indebtedness of its
subsidiaries. In May 2005, CMS Energy entered into the Sixth Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement in the amount of approximately $300 million. As of
December 31, 2005, there were approximately $96 million of letters of credit
outstanding under the Sixth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. CMS Energy
and its subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future.

     The level of CMS Energy's present and future indebtedness could have
several important effects on its future operations, including, among others:

     - a significant portion of its cash flow from operations will be dedicated
       to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness and will not
       be available for other purposes;

     - covenants contained in its existing debt arrangements require it to meet
       certain financial tests, which may affect its flexibility in planning
       for, and reacting to, changes in its business;

     - its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital
       expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes may
       be limited;

     - it may be at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors that are less
       leveraged; and

     - its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions may
       increase.

     CMS Energy's ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its
total indebtedness will be dependent upon its future performance, which will be
subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business
and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its
control. CMS Energy cannot assure you that its business will continue to
generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness. If it
is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, it may be required
to sell additional assets or obtain additional financings. CMS Energy cannot
assure that additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable
terms or at all.

     There can be no assurance that the requirements of CMS Energy's existing
debt arrangements or other indebtedness will be met in the future. Failure to
comply with those covenants may result in a default with respect to the related
debt and could lead to acceleration of that debt or any instruments evidencing
indebtedness that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions.

     In such a case, there can be no assurance that CMS Energy would be able to
refinance or otherwise repay that indebtedness.

                                        26


CMS ENERGY CANNOT PREDICT THE OUTCOME OF CLAIMS REGARDING ITS PARTICIPATION IN
THE DEVELOPMENT OF BAY HARBOR OR OTHER LITIGATION IN WHICH SUBSTANTIAL MONETARY
CLAIMS ARE INVOLVED.

     As part of the development of Bay Harbor by certain subsidiaries of CMS
Energy, which went forward under an agreement with the MDEQ, a third party
constructed a golf course over several abandoned cement kiln dust (CKD) piles,
left over from the former cement plant operation on the Bay Harbor site.
Pursuant to the agreement with the MDEQ, CMS Energy constructed a water
collection system to recover seep water from one of the CKD piles. In 2002, CMS
Energy sold its interest in Bay Harbor, but retained its obligations under
previous environmental indemnifications entered into at the inception of the
project.

     In September 2004, the MDEQ issued a notice of noncompliance (NON), after
finding high-pH seep water in Lake Michigan adjacent to the property. The MDEQ
also found higher than acceptable levels of heavy metals, including mercury, in
the seep water.

     In February 2005, the EPA executed an Administrative Order on Consent (AOC)
to address problems at Bay Harbor, upon the consent of CMS Land Company, a
subsidiary of Enterprises and CMS Capital, LLC, a subsidiary of CMS Energy.
Under the AOC, CMS Land Company and CMS Capital, LLC are generally obligated,
among other things, to: (i) engage in measures to restrict access to seep areas,
install methods to interrupt the flow of seep water to Lake Michigan, and take
other measures as may be required by the EPA under an approved "removal action
work plan"; (ii) investigate and study the extent of hazardous substances at the
site, evaluate alternatives to address a long-term remedy, and issue a report of
the investigation and study; and (iii) within 120 days after EPA approval of the
investigation report, enter into an enforceable agreement with the MDEQ to
address a long-term remedy under certain criteria set forth in the AOC. The EPA
approved a final removal action work plan in September 2005.

     The EPA-approved removal action work plan provides for fencing of affected
beachfront areas and installing an underground leachate collection system, among
other elements. The EPA's approvals also specify that a backup "containment and
isolation system," involving dams or barriers in the lake, could be required in
certain areas, if the collection system is ineffective. In addition, there are
indications that CKD may be located on the beach at the west end of the
collection system installation. As a result, construction in the affected area
has been halted pending further investigation. CMS Energy has worked out a
schedule with the EPA to perform further investigation of these conditions and
will deliver a conceptual design to the EPA for a remediation system. CMS Energy
is presently engaged in negotiations with the EPA and the MDEQ concerning
potential interim remediation activities for the Eastern CKD pile, which may
include a carbon dioxide injection system to neutralize high-pH materials and/or
a collection system or systems.

     Several parties have issued demand letters to CMS Energy claiming breach of
the indemnification provisions, making requests for payment of their expenses
related to the NON, and/or claiming damages to property or personal injury with
regard to the matter. Several landowners have threatened litigation in the event
their demands are not met and owners of one parcel have filed a lawsuit in Emmet
County Circuit Court against CMS Energy and several of its subsidiaries, as well
as Bay Harbor Company LLC and David Johnson, one of the developers at Bay
Harbor. CMS Energy responded to the indemnification claims by stating that it
had not breached its indemnity obligations, it will comply with the indemnities,
it has restarted the seep water collection facility and it has responded to the
NON. CMS Energy has entered into various access, purchase and settlement
agreements with several of the affected landowners at Bay Harbor and continues
negotiations with other landowners for access as necessary to implement
remediation measures. CMS Energy will defend vigorously any property damage and
personal injury claims or lawsuits.

     CMS Energy originally recorded a liability for its obligations associated
with this matter in the amount of $45 million in the fourth quarter of 2004.
Under the AOC, CMS Land Company is presently conducting a remedial investigation
of the site, which includes the gathering and analysis of data to be utilized in
arriving at a permanent fix. Based on the evaluation of recent construction
events and site-related data, CMS Energy has increased its cost projections and
reserves to $85 million. An adverse outcome of this matter could, depending on
the size of any indemnification obligation or liability under environmental
laws, have a potentially significant adverse effect on CMS Energy's financial
condition and liquidity and could negatively impact CMS Energy's financial
results. CMS Energy cannot predict the ultimate cost or outcome of this matter.

                                        27


     In addition to the litigation and proceedings discussed above, CMS Energy
or various of its subsidiaries are parties in other pending litigation in which
substantial monetary damages are sought. An adverse outcome in one or more of
these cases could, depending on the timing and size of any award and the
availability of insurance or reimbursement from third parties, have an adverse
effect on CMS Energy's financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.

CMS ENERGY RETAINS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES IN CONNECTION WITH ITS ASSET SALES.

     The agreements CMS Energy enters into for the sale of assets customarily
include provisions whereby it is required to:

     - retain specified preexisting liabilities such as for taxes and pensions;

     - indemnify the buyers against specified risks, including the inaccuracy of
       representations and warranties it makes; and

     - require payments to the buyers depending on the outcome of post-closing
       adjustments, audits or other reviews.

     Many of these contingent liabilities can remain open for extended periods
of time after the sales are closed. Depending on the extent to which the buyers
may ultimately seek to enforce their rights under these contractual provisions,
and the resolution of any disputes CMS Energy may have concerning them, these
liabilities could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition,
liquidity and results of operations.

     CMS Energy has received a request for indemnification from the purchaser of
CMS Oil and Gas. The indemnification claim relates to the sale by CMS Energy of
its oil, gas and methanol projects in Equatorial Guinea and the claim of the
government of Equatorial Guinea that $142 million in taxes is owed it in
connection with that sale. Based on information currently available, CMS Energy
and its tax advisors have concluded that the government's tax claim is without
merit and the purchaser of CMS Oil and Gas has submitted a response to the
government rejecting the claim. An adverse outcome of this claim could have a
material adverse effect on CMS Energy's financial condition, liquidity and
results of operations.

CMS ENERGY HAS MADE SUBSTANTIAL INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO
POSSIBLE NATIONALIZATION, EXPROPRIATION OR INABILITY TO CONVERT CURRENCY.

     CMS Energy's investments in selected international markets in electric
generating facilities, natural gas pipelines and electric distribution systems
face a number of risks inherent in acquiring, developing and owning these types
of international facilities. Although CMS Energy maintains insurance for various
risk exposures, including political risk from possible nationalization,
expropriation or inability to convert currency, it is exposed to some risks that
include local political and economic factors over which it has no control, such
as changes in foreign governmental and regulatory policies (including changes in
industrial regulation and control and changes in taxation), changing political
conditions and international monetary fluctuations. In some cases an investment
may have to be abandoned or disposed of at a loss. These factors could have a
significant adverse effect on the financial results of the affected subsidiary
and CMS Energy's financial position and results of operations.

     International investments of the type CMS Energy has made are subject to
the risk that the investments may be expropriated or that the required
agreements, licenses, permits and other approvals may be changed or terminated
in violation of their terms. These kinds of changes could result in a partial or
total loss of CMS Energy's investment.

     The local foreign currency may be devalued, the conversion of the currency
may be restricted or prohibited or other actions, such as increases in taxes,
royalties or import duties, may be taken which adversely affect the value and
the recovery of CMS Energy's investment.

                                        28


RISKS RELATED TO CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS

CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS HAVE FINANCING NEEDS AND THEY MAY BE UNABLE TO
SUCCESSFULLY ACCESS BANK FINANCING OR THE CAPITAL MARKETS.

     Consumers expects to incur significant costs for capital expenditures,
including future environmental regulation compliance, especially compliance with
clean air laws. See "CMS Energy and Consumers could incur significant capital
expenditures to comply with environmental standards and face difficulty in
recovering these costs on a current basis" below. As of December 31, 2005,
Consumers had incurred $605 million in capital expenditures to comply with these
regulations and future capital expenditures may total approximately $210 million
between 2006 and 2011.

     CMS Energy and Consumers continue to be challenged by the substantial
increase in natural gas prices. Although Consumers' reasonably and prudently
incurred natural gas purchases are recoverable from its utility customers, as
gas prices increase, the amount it pays for natural gas stored as inventory will
require additional liquidity due to the timing of the cost recoveries from its
customers. Consumers anticipates that it will need a substantial amount of cash
in the summer of 2006 to purchase storage for natural gas for winter 2006-2007.
See "The combined effects of substantially higher natural gas prices,
restrictions on Consumers' ability to issue first mortgage bonds and possible
power purchase supply cost recovery delays may have a negative effect on
Consumers' short-term liquidity" below. CMS Energy and Consumers could also be
required to make additional cash contributions to their employee pension and
benefit plans and become subject to liquidity demands pursuant to commercial
commitments under guarantees, indemnities and letters of credit. Management is
actively pursuing plans to sell assets. There can be no assurances that this
business plan will be successful and failure to achieve its goals could have a
material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity and operations.

     CMS Energy continues to explore financing opportunities to supplement its
financial plan. These potential opportunities include: refinancing its bank
credit facilities, entering into leasing arrangements and refinancing and/or
issuing new capital markets debt, preferred stock and/or common equity. CMS
Energy cannot guarantee the capital market's acceptance of its securities or
predict the impact of factors beyond its control, such as actions of rating
agencies. If CMS Energy is unable to access bank financing or the capital
markets to incur or refinance indebtedness, there could be a material adverse
effect upon its liquidity and operations.

     Similarly, Consumers currently plans to seek funds through the capital
markets and commercial lenders. Entering into new financings is subject in part
to capital market receptivity to utility industry securities in general and to
Consumers' securities issuances in particular. Consumers cannot guarantee the
capital market's acceptance of its securities or predict the impact of factors
beyond its control, such as actions of rating agencies. If Consumers is unable
to access bank financing or the capital markets to incur or refinance
indebtedness, there could be a material adverse effect upon its liquidity and
operations.

     Certain of CMS Energy's securities and those of its affiliates, including
Consumers, are rated by various credit rating agencies. Any reduction or
withdrawal of one or more of its credit ratings could have a material adverse
impact on CMS Energy's ability to access capital on acceptable terms and
maintain commodity lines of credit and could make its cost of borrowing higher.
If it is unable to maintain commodity lines of credit, CMS Energy may have to
post collateral or make prepayments to certain of its suppliers pursuant to
existing contracts with them. Further, any adverse developments to Consumers,
which provides dividends to CMS Energy, that result in a lowering of Consumers'
credit ratings could have an adverse effect on CMS Energy's credit ratings. CMS
Energy and Consumers cannot assure you that any of their current ratings will
remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be
lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency.

     On August 2, 2005, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2005-53 and regulations to
provide guidance with respect to the use of the "simplified service cost" method
of tax accounting. CMS Energy and Consumers use this tax accounting method,
generally allowed by the IRS under section 263A of the Internal Revenue Code,
with respect to the allocation of certain corporate overheads to the tax basis
of self-constructed utility assets. Under the IRS guidance, significant issues
with respect to the application of this method remain unresolved and subject to
dispute. However, the effect of the IRS's position may be to require CMS Energy
either (1) to repay a portion of previously received tax benefits, or (2) to add
back to taxable income, half in each of 2005 and 2006, a significant

                                        29


portion of previously deducted overheads. The impact of this matter on future
earnings, cash flows, or present NOL carryforwards remains uncertain, but could
be material. CMS Energy and Consumers have recorded a reduction in NOL
carryforwards of $359 million in 2005, and a corresponding reduction in deferred
taxes related to property, to reflect the estimated 2005 effect of the new
regulation. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the outcome of this matter.

PERIODIC REVIEWS OF THE VALUES OF CMS ENERGY'S AND CONSUMERS' ASSETS COULD
RESULT IN ADDITIONAL ACCOUNTING CHARGES SUCH AS THE RECENT ASSET IMPAIRMENT
CHARGES THEY TOOK RELATING TO THEIR INTEREST IN THE MCV PARTNERSHIP.

     CMS Energy and Consumers are required by GAAP to periodically review the
carrying value of their assets, including those that may be sold. Market
conditions, the operational characteristics of their assets and other factors
could result in recording additional impairment charges for their assets, which
could have an adverse effect on their stockholders' equity and their access to
additional financing. In addition, they may be required to record impairment
charges and/or foreign currency translation losses at the time they sell assets,
depending on the sale prices they are able to secure and other factors.

     The MCV Partnership's costs of producing electricity are tied to the price
of natural gas, but its revenues do not vary with changes in the price of
natural gas. In 2005, NYMEX forward natural gas price forecasts for the years
2005 through 2010 increased substantially. Additionally, other independent
natural gas long-term forward price forecasting organizations indicated their
intention to raise their forecasts for the price of natural gas generally over
the entire long-term forecast horizon beyond 2010. CMS Energy's and Consumers'
analysis and assessment of this information suggested that forward natural gas
prices for the period from 2006 through 2010 could average approximately $9 per
mcf. Further, this information indicated that natural gas prices could average
approximately $6.50 per mcf over the long term beyond 2010. As a result, in
2005, the MCV Partnership reevaluated the economics of operating the MCV
Facility and determined that an impairment analysis, considering revised forward
natural gas price assumptions, was required. In its impairment analysis, the MCV
Partnership determined the fair value of its fixed assets by discounting a set
of probability-weighted streams of future operating cash flows at a 4.3 percent
risk free interest rate. The carrying value of the MCV Partnership's fixed
assets exceeded the estimated fair value, resulting in an impairment charge of
$1.159 billion to recognize the reduction in fair value of the MCV Facility's
fixed assets. As a result, Consumers' 2005 net income was reduced by $369
million after considering tax effects and minority interest. The MCV
Partnership's fixed assets, which are included on Consumers' Consolidated
Balance Sheets and reported by CMS Energy under the Enterprises business
segment, after reflecting the impairment charge, are valued at $224 million at
December 31, 2005.

     The impairment of the MCV Facility, and any potential future impairment of
the MCV Facility, will likely decrease the amount of equity investment
recognized in future electric and gas rate orders. Lower equity investment may
result in a reduced revenue requirement. However, CMS Energy and Consumers
cannot predict the outcome of any future rate cases, which may be lower or
higher based on several factors, including the amount of equity investment and
related risk.

     If natural gas prices remain at present levels or increase, the operations
of the MCV Facility would be adversely affected and could result in the MCV
Partnership failing to meet its obligations under the sale and leaseback
transactions and other contracts and could result in a potential impairment of
the FMLP. At December 31, 2005, Consumers' investment in the FMLP was $235
million.

     Consumers' 49 percent interest in the MCV Partnership is held through
Consumers' wholly-owned subsidiary, CMS Midland. The severe adverse change in
the anticipated economics of the MCV Partnership operations discussed herein
also led to the decision to impair certain assets carried on the balance sheet
of CMS Midland. These assets represented interest capitalized during the
construction of the MCV Facility, which were being amortized over the life of
the MCV Facility. In the third quarter of 2005, Consumers recorded an impairment
charge of $25 million ($16 million, net of tax) to reduce the carrying amount of
these assets to zero.

     The total of the CMS Midland impairment and the MCV Partnership impairment
discussed above is $1.184 billion, before tax, and $385 million net of taxes and
minority interest.

                                        30


THE COMBINED EFFECTS OF SUBSTANTIALLY HIGHER NATURAL GAS PRICES, RESTRICTIONS ON
CONSUMERS' ABILITY TO ISSUE FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS AND POSSIBLE POWER PURCHASE
SUPPLY COST RECOVERY DELAYS MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON CONSUMERS' SHORT-TERM
LIQUIDITY.

     Natural gas prices continue to increase substantially. Although Consumers'
natural gas purchases are recoverable from its utility customers, as gas prices
increase, the amount it pays for natural gas stored as inventory will require
additional liquidity due to the timing of the cost recoveries from its
customers. Due to the high natural gas prices, Consumers' ability to collect
accounts receivable from its gas customers may be negatively impacted. In
addition, if natural gas prices increase or stay at current levels, Consumers
will require significant additional liquidity in the summer of 2006 to fill its
gas storage facilities in preparation for the 2006-2007 heating season.

     Due to the adverse impact of the MCV Partnership asset impairment charge
recorded in September 2005, Consumers' ability to issue FMB as primary
obligations or as collateral for financing is expected to be limited to $298
million through September 30, 2006. FMB have been a primary source of financing
for Consumers. After September 30, 2006, Consumers' ability to issue FMB in
excess of $298 million is based on achieving a two-times FMB interest coverage
ratio.

     Consumers is entitled to recover its reasonably and prudently incurred
power supply costs pursuant to the PSCR process. In September 2005, Consumers
submitted its 2006 PSCR plan filing to the MPSC. In November 2005, it submitted
an amended 2006 PSCR plan to the MPSC to include higher estimates for certain
transmission and coal supply costs. In December 2005, the MPSC issued an order
that temporarily excludes the increased portion of these costs from Consumers'
PSCR charge, which began in January 2006. The order also includes a one mill per
kWh reduction in the PSCR charge. To the extent that Consumers incurs and is
unable to collect these costs in a timely manner, its cash flows from electric
utility operations will be affected negatively. Consumers cannot predict the
outcome of the PSCR proceeding.

CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS
AND A LAWSUIT REGARDING "ROUND-TRIP" TRADING BY CMS MST AS WELL AS CIVIL
LAWSUITS REGARDING PRICING INFORMATION THAT CMS MST AND CMS FIELD SERVICES
PROVIDED TO MARKET PUBLICATIONS.

     As a result of round-trip trading transactions (simultaneous, prearranged
commodity trading transactions in which energy commodities were sold and
repurchased at the same price) at CMS MST, CMS Energy is under investigation by
the DOJ. CMS Energy has also received subpoenas from U.S. Attorneys' Offices
regarding investigations of those trades. In addition, CMS Energy, Consumers and
certain officers and directors of CMS Energy and its affiliates, have been named
in numerous securities class action lawsuits by individuals who allege that they
purchased CMS Energy securities during a purported class period. The cases have
been consolidated into a single lawsuit. The consolidated lawsuit generally
seeks unspecified damages based on allegations that the defendants violated
United States securities laws and regulations by making allegedly false and
misleading statements about CMS Energy's business and financial condition,
particularly with respect to revenues and expenses recorded in connection with
round-trip trading by CMS MST. In January 2005, a motion was granted dismissing
Consumers and three of the individual defendants, but the court denied the
motions to dismiss for CMS Energy and the 13 remaining individual defendants.
Plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification on April 15, 2005 and an
amended motion for class certification on June 20, 2005. On November 29, 2005,
the court denied a further motion to dismiss filed by CMS Energy and denied a
motion by the plaintiffs for partial summary judgment.

     In March 2004, the SEC approved a cease-and-desist order settling an
administrative action against CMS Energy relating to round-trip trading. The
order did not assess a fine and CMS Energy neither admitted nor denied the
order's findings.

     CMS Energy has notified appropriate regulatory and governmental agencies
that some employees at CMS MST and CMS Field Services (now Cantera Gas Company)
appeared to have provided inaccurate information regarding natural gas trades to
various energy industry publications which compile and report index prices. CMS
Energy is cooperating with an ongoing investigation by the DOJ regarding this
matter. On November 25, 2003, the CFTC issued a settlement order regarding this
matter. CMS MST and CMS Field Services agreed to pay a

                                        31


fine to the CFTC totaling $16 million. CMS Energy neither admitted nor denied
the findings of the CFTC in the settlement order. The CFTC filed a civil
injunctive action against two former CMS Field Services employees in Oklahoma
federal district court on February 1, 2005. The action alleges the two engaged
in reporting false natural gas trade information, and the action seeks to enjoin
those acts, compel compliance with the Commodities Exchange Act and impose
monetary penalties. CMS Energy is currently advancing legal defense costs to the
two individuals in accordance with existing indemnification policies.

     CMS Energy has also been named as a defendant in a number of gas industry
civil lawsuits regarding inaccurate gas trade reporting that include claims
alleging manipulation of NYMEX natural gas futures and options prices,
price-fixing conspiracies and artificial inflation of natural gas retail prices
in California, Kansas and Tennessee.

     CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the outcome of the DOJ
investigations and the lawsuits. It is possible that the outcome in one or more
of the investigations or the lawsuits could adversely affect CMS Energy's and
Consumers' financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.

CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS MAY BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY THE RESULTS OF AN
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN LAWSUIT.

     CMS Energy and Consumers are defendants, along with CMS MST and certain
named and unnamed officers and directors, in two lawsuits brought as purported
class actions on behalf of participants and beneficiaries of their 401(k) plan.
The two cases, filed in July 2002 in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Michigan, were consolidated by the trial judge and an
amended and consolidated complaint has been filed. Plaintiffs allege breaches of
fiduciary duties under ERISA and seek restitution on behalf of the plan with
respect to a decline in value of the shares of CMS Energy Common Stock held in
the plan. The plaintiffs also seek other equitable relief and legal fees. The
judge has conditionally granted plaintiffs' motion for class certification. A
trial date has not been set, but is expected to be no earlier than mid-2006 in
the absence of an intervening settlement of the lawsuits. Settlement
negotiations among counsel for the parties and CMS Energy's fiduciary insurance
carrier are ongoing. In the absence of such a settlement, CMS Energy and
Consumers will defend themselves vigorously in this litigation but cannot
predict its outcome.

     It is possible that an adverse outcome in this lawsuit could adversely
affect CMS Energy's and Consumers' financial condition, liquidity or results of
operations.

REGULATORY CHANGES AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS HAVE RESULTED AND COULD CONTINUE TO
RESULT IN INCREASED COMPETITION IN THE DOMESTIC ENERGY BUSINESS. GENERALLY,
INCREASED COMPETITION THREATENS MARKET SHARE IN CERTAIN SEGMENTS OF CMS ENERGY'S
BUSINESS AND CAN REDUCE ITS AND CONSUMERS' PROFITABILITY.

     Pursuant to the Customer Choice Act, as of January 1, 2002, all electric
customers in Michigan had the choice of buying electric generation service from
Consumers or an alternative electric supplier. Consumers had experienced, and
could experience in the future, a significant increase in competition for
generation services due to the introduction of ROA. At December 31, 2005,
alternative electric suppliers were providing 552 MW of generation service to
ROA customers. This amount represents 7 percent of Consumers' total distribution
load. It is difficult to predict the total amount of electric supply load that
may be lost to competitor suppliers in the future.

ELECTRIC INDUSTRY REGULATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT CMS ENERGY'S AND CONSUMERS'
BUSINESS, INCLUDING THEIR ABILITY TO RECOVER COSTS FROM THEIR CUSTOMERS.

     Federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically
in the last two decades and could continue to change over the next several
years. These changes could adversely affect CMS Energy's and Consumers'
business, financial condition and profitability.

     There are multiple proceedings pending before the FERC involving
transmission rates, regional transmission organizations and electric bulk power
markets and transmission. FERC is also reviewing the standards under which
electric utilities are allowed to participate in wholesale power markets without
price restrictions. CMS

                                        32


Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of these electric industry
restructuring proceedings on their financial position, liquidity or results of
operations.

CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS COULD INCUR SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES TO COMPLY
WITH ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS AND FACE DIFFICULTY IN RECOVERING THESE COSTS ON A
CURRENT BASIS.

     CMS Energy, Consumers, and their subsidiaries are subject to costly and
increasingly stringent environmental regulations. They expect that the cost of
future environmental compliance, especially compliance with clean air and water
laws, will be significant.

     In 1998, the EPA issued regulations requiring the State of Michigan to
further limit nitrogen oxide emissions at coal-fired electric plants. The EPA
and State of Michigan regulations require Consumers to make significant capital
expenditures estimated to be $815 million. As of December 2005, Consumers has
incurred $605 million in capital expenditures to comply with these regulations
and anticipates that the remaining $210 million of capital expenditures will be
made in 2006 through 2011. These expenditures include installing selective
catalytic reduction technology at four of its coal-fired electric plants. In
addition to modifying coal-fired electric plants, Consumers compliance plan
includes the use of nitrogen oxide emission allowances until all of the control
equipment is operational in 2011. The nitrogen oxide emission allowance annual
expense is projected to be $10 million per year, which Consumers expects to
recover from customers through the PSCR process. The projected annual expense is
based on market price forecasts and forecasts of regulatory provisions, known as
progressive flow control, that restrict the usage in any given year of
allowances banked from previous years.

     The EPA recently adopted a Clean Air Interstate Rule that requires
additional coal-fired electric plant emission controls for nitrogen oxides and
sulfur dioxide. The rule involves a two-phase program to reduce emissions of
sulfur dioxide by 71 percent and nitrogen oxides by 63 percent by 2015. The
final rule will require that Consumers run its selective catalytic control
technology units year-round beginning in 2009 and may require that it purchase
additional nitrogen oxide allowances beginning in 2009. In addition to the
selective catalytic control technology installed to meet the nitrogen oxide
standards, Consumers' current plan includes installation of flue gas
desulfurization scrubbers. The scrubbers are to be installed by 2014 to meet the
Phase I reduction requirements of the Clean Air Interstate Rule at costs similar
to those to comply with nitrogen oxide standards.

     In May 2005, the EPA issued the Clean Air Mercury Rule, which requires
initial reductions of mercury emissions from coal-fired electric power plants by
2010 and further reductions by 2018. While the industry has not reached a
consensus on the technical methods for curtailing mercury emissions, Consumers'
capital and operating costs for mercury emissions reductions are expected to be
significantly less than what was required for selective catalytic reduction
technology used for nitrogen oxide compliance.

     In August 2005, the MDEQ filed a Motion to Intervene in a court challenge
to certain aspects of EPA's Clean Air Mercury Rule, asserting that the rule is
inadequate. The MDEQ has not indicated the direction that it will pursue to meet
or exceed the EPA requirements through a state rulemaking. Consumers is actively
participating in dialog with the MDEQ regarding potential paths for controlling
mercury emissions and meeting the EPA requirements. In October 2005, the EPA
announced it would reconsider certain aspects of the Clean Air Mercury Rule.
Consumers cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding.

     Several legislative proposals have been introduced in the United States
Congress that would require reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases;
however, none have yet been enacted. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict
whether any federal mandatory greenhouse gas emission reduction rules ultimately
will be enacted, or the specific requirements of any of these rules.

     To the extent that greenhouse gas emission reduction rules come into
effect, the mandatory emissions reduction requirements could have far-reaching
and significant implications for the energy sector. CMS Energy and Consumers
cannot estimate the potential effect of federal or state level greenhouse gas
policy on their future consolidated results of operations, cash flows, or
financial position due to the uncertain nature of the policies at this time.
However, CMS Energy and Consumers stay abreast of and engage in greenhouse gas
policy developments and will continue to assess and respond to the potential
implications on their business operations.

                                        33


     These and other required environmental expenditures, if not recovered from
customers in Consumers' rates, may require CMS Energy and/or Consumers to seek
significant additional financing to fund these expenditures and could strain
their cash resources.

CMS ENERGY'S AND CONSUMERS' REVENUES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO
RISKS THAT ARE BEYOND THEIR CONTROL, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO FUTURE
TERRORIST ATTACKS OR RELATED ACTS OF WAR.

     The cost of repairing damage to CMS Energy's and Consumers' facilities due
to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic
events, in excess of insurance recoveries and reserves established for these
repairs, may adversely impact their results of operations, financial condition
and cash flows. The occurrence or risk of occurrence of future terrorist
activity and the high cost or potential unavailability of insurance to cover
this terrorist activity may impact their results of operations and financial
condition in unpredictable ways. These actions could also result in disruptions
of power and fuel markets. In addition, their natural gas distribution system
and pipelines could be directly or indirectly harmed by future terrorist
activity.

CONSUMERS' OWNERSHIP OF A NUCLEAR GENERATING FACILITY CREATES RISK RELATING TO
NUCLEAR ENERGY.

     Consumers owns the Palisades nuclear power plant and is, therefore, subject
to the risks of nuclear generation, including the risks associated with the
operation of plant facilities and the storage and disposal of spent fuel and
other radioactive waste. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose
licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear
generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority
to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of
the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In addition, if a
serious nuclear incident were to occur at Consumers' plant, it could harm
Consumers' results of operations and financial condition. A major incident at a
nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit
the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.

     In December 2005, Consumers announced plans to sell the Palisades plant in
a competitive bid process expected to lead to a sale in 2007.

CONSUMERS CURRENTLY UNDERRECOVERS IN ITS RATES ITS PAYMENTS TO THE MCV
PARTNERSHIP FOR CAPACITY AND ENERGY, AND IS ALSO EXPOSED TO FUTURE CHANGES IN
THE MCV PARTNERSHIP'S FINANCIAL CONDITION THROUGH ITS EQUITY AND LESSOR
INVESTMENTS.

     The MCV PPA expires in 2025. Under the MCV PPA, variable energy payments to
the MCV Partnership are based on the cost of coal burned at Consumers' coal
plants and its operation and maintenance expenses. However, the MCV
Partnership's costs of producing electricity are tied to the cost of natural
gas. Natural gas prices have increased substantially in recent years and
throughout 2005. In 2005, the MCV Partnership reevaluated the economics of
operating the MCV Facility and recorded an impairment. For additional details on
the impairment of the MCV Facility, see "Periodic reviews of the values of CMS
Energy's and Consumers' assets could result in additional accounting charges
such as the recent asset impairment charges they took relating to their interest
in the MCV Partnership" above.

     Further, the cost that Consumers incurs under the MCV PPA exceeds the
recovery amount allowed by the MPSC. Underrecoveries of capacity and fixed
energy payments totaled $59 million in 2005. Consumers estimates underrecoveries
of $55 million in 2006 and $39 million in 2007. After September 15, 2007, it
expects to claim relief under the regulatory out provision in the MCV PPA,
thereby limiting its capacity and fixed energy payments to the MCV Partnership
to the amounts that it collects from its customers. The MCV Partnership has
indicated that it may take issue with Consumers' exercise of the regulatory out
clause after September 15, 2007. Consumers believes that the clause is valid and
fully effective, but cannot assure that it will prevail in the event of a
dispute. The MPSC's future actions on the capacity and fixed energy payments
recoverable from customers subsequent to September 15, 2007 may affect
negatively the financial performance of the MCV Partnership.

     In January 2005, Consumers implemented the RCP. The underlying agreement
for the RCP between Consumers and the MCV Partnership extends through the term
of the MCV PPA. However, either party may terminate that agreement under certain
conditions. In February 2005, a group of intervenors in the RCP case filed

                                        34


for rehearing of the MPSC order approving the RCP. The Attorney General also
filed an appeal with the Michigan Court of Appeals. Consumers cannot predict the
outcome of these matters.

     CMS Energy and Consumers cannot estimate, at this time, the impact of these
issues on Consumers' future earnings or cash flow from its interest in the MCV
Partnership. The ability to develop a new long-term strategy with respect to the
MCV Facility, the future price of natural gas and an MPSC decision related to
Consumers' recovery of capacity payments are the three most significant
variables in the analysis of the MCV Partnership's future financial performance.
It is not presently possible to predict the success of the ability to develop a
new long -- term strategy with respect to the MCV Facility, the future price of
natural gas, or the actions of the MPSC in 2007 or later. For these reasons, at
this time CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of these issues on
Consumers' future earnings or cash flows or on the value of its equity interest
in the MCV Partnership and CMS Energy's lessor interest in the FMLP.

CONSUMERS' ENERGY RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES MAY NOT BE EFFECTIVE IN MANAGING
FUEL AND ELECTRICITY PRICING RISKS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN UNANTICIPATED
LIABILITIES TO CONSUMERS OR INCREASED VOLATILITY OF ITS EARNINGS.

     Consumers is exposed to changes in market prices for natural gas, coal,
electricity and emission credits. Prices for natural gas, coal, electricity and
emission credits may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of
time and expose Consumers to commodity price risk. A substantial portion of
Consumers' operating expenses for its plants consists of the costs of obtaining
these commodities. Consumers manages these risks using established policies and
procedures, and it may use various contracts to manage these risks, including
swaps, options, futures and forward contracts. No assurance can be made that
these strategies will be successful in managing Consumers' pricing risk, or that
they will not result in net liabilities to Consumers as a result of future
volatility in these markets.

     Natural gas prices in particular have historically been volatile. To manage
market risks associated with the volatility of natural gas prices, the MCV
Partnership maintains a gas hedging program. The MCV Partnership enters into
natural gas futures contracts, option contracts and over-the-counter swap
transactions in order to hedge against unfavorable changes in the market price
of natural gas in future months when gas is expected to be needed. These
financial instruments are being used principally to secure anticipated natural
gas requirements necessary for projected electric and steam sales, and to lock
in sales prices of natural gas previously obtained in order to optimize the MCV
Partnership's existing gas supply, storage and transportation arrangements.
Consumers also routinely enters into contracts to offset its positions, such as
hedging exposure to the risks of demand, market effects of weather and changes
in commodity prices associated with its gas distribution business. These
positions are taken in conjunction with the GCR mechanism, which allows
Consumers to recover prudently incurred costs associated with those positions.
However, neither Consumers nor the MCV Partnership always hedges the entire
exposure of its operations from commodity price volatility. Furthermore, the
ability to hedge exposure to commodity price volatility depends on liquid
commodity markets. As a result, to the extent the commodity markets are
illiquid, Consumers may not be able to execute its risk management strategies,
which could result in greater open positions than preferred at a given time. To
the extent that open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve
or diminish CMS Energy's and Consumers' financial results and financial
position.

                                        35


                       ITEM 1B