ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS    

Actual results in future periods for CMS Energy and Consumers could differ materially from historical results and the
forward-looking statements contained in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the following sections.
CMS Energy's and Consumers' businesses are influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, that involve uncertainties that may materially affect results, and that are often beyond
their control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the companies' management believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the companies. The risk factors described in
the following sections, as well as the other information included in this report and in other documents filed with the SEC, should be considered carefully before making an investment in securities of
CMS Energy or
Consumers. Risk factors of Consumers are also risk factors of CMS Energy. All of these risk factors are potentially significant. 


 CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service obligations.  

Due to its holding company structure, CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other payment
obligations. Consumers' ability to pay dividends or acquire its own stock from CMS Energy is limited by restrictions contained in Consumers' preferred stock provisions and potentially by other
legal restrictions, such as certain terms in its articles of incorporation, and by FERC requirements. At December 31, 2012, under its articles of incorporation, Consumers had
$536 million of unrestricted retained earnings available to pay common stock dividends. If sufficient dividends are not paid to CMS Energy by its subsidiaries, CMS Energy may not
be able to generate the funds necessary to fulfill its payment obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's liquidity and financial condition. 

 CMS Energy has indebtedness that could limit its financial flexibility and its ability to meet its debt service obligations.  

At December 31, 2012, CMS Energy, including Consumers, had $7.2 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness.
CMS Energy had $2.4 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2012, there were no borrowings and $2 million of letters
of credit outstanding under CMS Energy's revolving credit agreement. CMS Energy and its subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. 

The
level of CMS Energy's present and future indebtedness could have several important effects on its future operations, including, among
others:



•a significant portion of CMS Energy's cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the payment of principal and
interest on its indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes; •covenants contained in CMS Energy's existing debt arrangements, which require it to meet certain
financial tests,
could affect its flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business; •CMS Energy's ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
 acquisitions, and
general corporate and other purposes could become limited; •CMS Energy could be placed at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors that are less leveraged; 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•CMS Energy's vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions could increase;
and•CMS Energy's future credit ratings could fluctuate. 


CMS Energy's
ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness will depend on its future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions,
industry cycles, changes in laws or regulatory decisions, and financial, business, and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its control. CMS Energy cannot make
assurances that its business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness. If CMS Energy is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from
operations, it may be required to sell assets or obtain additional financing. CMS Energy cannot ensure that additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. 

 CMS Energy and Consumers have financing needs and could be unable to obtain bank financing or access the capital markets. Potential disruption in the capital and
credit markets could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' businesses, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and
their ability to meet long-term commitments. These consequences could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of
operations.  

CMS Energy and Consumers may be subject to liquidity demands under commercial commitments, guarantees, indemnities, letters of credit, and
other contingent liabilities. Consumers' capital requirements are expected to be substantial over the next several
years as it implements renewable power generation and environmental projects, and those requirements may increase if additional laws or regulations are adopted or implemented. 

CMS Energy
and Consumers rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as on bank syndications, to meet their financial commitments and short-term
liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from Consumers' operations and, in the case of CMS Energy, dividends from Consumers and its other subsidiaries. CMS Energy and
Consumers also use letters of credit issued under certain of their revolving credit facilities to support certain operations and investments. 

Longer
term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could
adversely affect CMS Energy's and Consumers' access to liquidity needed for their respective businesses, as could Consumers' inability to obtain prior FERC authorization for any securities
issuances, including publicly offered debt, as is required under the Federal Power Act. Any disruption or inability to obtain FERC authorization could require CMS Energy and Consumers to take
measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for their business needs can be arranged. These measures could include deferring capital
expenditures, changing CMS Energy's and Consumers' commodity purchasing strategy to avoid collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases, dividend
payments, or other discretionary uses of cash. 

CMS Energy
continues to explore financing opportunities to supplement its financial plan. These potential opportunities include refinancing and/or issuing new debt, preferred stock and/or
common equity, and bank financing. Similarly, Consumers plans to seek funds through the capital markets, commercial lenders, and leasing arrangements. Entering into new financings is subject in part
to capital market receptivity to utility industry securities in general and to CMS Energy's and Consumers' securities in particular. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

guarantee
the capital markets' acceptance of their securities or predict the impact of factors beyond their control, such as actions of rating agencies. If CMS Energy or Consumers is unable to
obtain bank financing or access the capital markets to incur or refinance indebtedness, or is unable to obtain commercially reasonable terms for any financing, there could be a material adverse effect
on its liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Certain
of CMS Energy's securities and those of its affiliates, including Consumers, are rated by various credit rating agencies. Any reduction or withdrawal of one or more of its credit
ratings
could have a material adverse impact on CMS Energy's or Consumers' ability to access capital on acceptable terms and maintain commodity lines of credit, could make its cost of borrowing higher,
and could cause CMS Energy or Consumers to reduce its capital expenditures. If it is unable to maintain commodity lines of credit, CMS Energy or Consumers may have to post collateral or
make prepayments to certain of its suppliers under existing contracts. Further, since Consumers provides dividends to CMS Energy, any adverse developments affecting Consumers that result in a
lowering of its credit ratings could have an adverse effect on CMS Energy's credit ratings. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot guarantee that any of their present ratings will remain in
effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. 

 There are risks associated with Consumers' significant capital investment program planned for the next five years.  

Consumers' planned investments include the Smart Energy program, new power generation, gas compression, environmental controls, and other electric
and gas infrastructure to upgrade delivery systems. The success of these investments depends on or could be affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, effective cost and schedule
management during implementation, changes in commodity and other prices, operational performance, changes in environmental, legislative and regulatory requirements, and regulatory cost recovery.
Consumers cannot predict the impact that any of these factors could have on the success of its capital investment program. It is possible that adverse events associated with these factors could have a
material adverse effect on Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

 Electric industry legislation in Michigan, coupled with increased competition in gas and electric markets, could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and
Consumers' businesses.  

The 2008 Energy Law, among other things, limits alternative electric supply to ten percent of weather-adjusted retail sales for the preceding
calendar year. Lower natural gas prices due to a large supply of natural gas on the market, coupled with low capacity prices in the electric supply market, are placing increasing competitive pressure
on Consumers' electric supply. Presently, Consumers' electric rates are above the Midwest average, while the ROA level on Consumers' system is at the ten-percent cap and the proportion of
Consumers' electric deliveries under the ROA program and on the ROA waiting list is 25 percent. In February 2013, a proposal was made to raise the ROA limit above ten percent. If the bill is
enacted, it could have a material adverse effect on Consumers' business. In addition, the Michigan legislature is conducting hearings on the subject of energy competition. If other bills to raise the
ROA limit above ten percent are proposed in the future and enacted, they could have a material adverse effect on Consumers' business. 

Recently,
the Michigan governor announced a process pursuant to which a series of reports are to be completed in December 2013 addressing energy efficiency, renewable energy, the electricity market
and customer choice, and other subjects. The process is designed to help the 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

governor
and other lawmakers determine the state's next steps regarding energy policies. A series of public hearings have been scheduled in 2013 to gather input. Consumers expects to participate
actively in this process but cannot predict its outcome. 

Other
new legislation or interpretations could change how the businesses of CMS Energy and Consumers operate, impact Consumers' ability to recover costs through rate increases, or require
CMS Energy and Consumers to incur additional expenses. 

 CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to rate regulation, which could have an adverse effect on financial results.  

CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to rate regulation. Electric and gas rates for their utilities are set by the MPSC and cannot be
increased without regulatory authorization. While Consumers is permitted by the 2008 Energy Law to self-implement rate changes six months after a rate filing with the MPSC, subject to
certain limitations, if a final rate order from the MPSC provides for lower rates than Consumers self-implemented, Consumers must refund the difference, with interest. Also, the MPSC may
delay or deny implementation of a rate increase upon showing of good cause. In February 2011, the MPSC found good cause to delay Consumers' self-implementation of its requested gas rate
increase. Consumers did not experience delays in self-implementation of rate increases in 2012. 

In
addition, Consumers' plans for making significant capital investments, including modifications to meet new environmental requirements and investment in new generation, could be affected adversely
or could have a material adverse effect on Consumers if rate regulators fail to provide timely rate relief or to approve a Certificate of Necessity for new generation. Regulators seeking to avoid or
minimize rate increases could resist raising customer rates sufficiently to permit Consumers to recover the full cost of modifications to meet environmental requirements and other prudent investments.
In addition, because certain costs are mandated by state requirements for cost recovery, such as resource additions to meet Michigan's renewable resource standard, regulators could be more inclined to
oppose rate increases for other required
items and investments. Rate regulators could also face pressure to avoid or limit rate increases for a number of reasons, including failure of Michigan's economy to improve sufficiently or
diminishment of Consumers' customer base. In addition to potentially affecting Consumers' investment program, any limitation of cost recovery through rates could have a material adverse effect on
Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Orders
of the MPSC could limit recovery of costs of providing service including, but not limited to, environmental and safety related expenditures for coal-fueled plants and other utility
properties, power supply and natural gas supply costs, operating and maintenance expenses, additional utility-based investments, sunk investment in mothballed or retired coal-fueled generating plants,
costs associated with the proposed retirement and decommissioning of facilities, depreciation expense, MISO energy and transmission costs, costs associated with energy efficiency investments and state
or federally mandated renewable resource standards, Smart Energy program costs, or expenditures subjected to tracking mechanisms. These orders could also result in adverse regulatory treatment of
other matters including, but not limited to, prevention or curtailment of shutoffs for non-paying customers, Consumers' gas revenue decoupling mechanism, prevention or curtailment of
rights to self-implement rate requests, or refunds of previously self-implemented rates. 

FERC
authorizes certain subsidiaries of CMS Energy to sell electricity at market-based rates. Failure of CMS Energy and Consumers to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

timely
manner could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 


The
various risks associated with the MPSC and FERC regulation of CMS Energy's and Consumers' businesses, which include the risk of adverse decisions in any number of rate or regulatory
proceedings before either agency, as well as judicial proceedings challenging any such agency decisions, could have a substantial negative effect on the companies' investment plans and results of
operations. 

 Electric industry regulation could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' businesses.  

Federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically in the last two decades and could continue to change over the next
several years. These changes could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

CMS Energy
and Consumers are subject to, or affected by, extensive federal and state utility regulation. In CMS Energy's and Consumers' business planning and management of operations,
they must address the effects of existing and proposed regulation on their businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, regional
transmission organizations, utility regulators, and taxing authorities. Adoption of new regulations by federal or state agencies, or changes to present regulations and interpretations of these
regulations, could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 


There
are multiple proceedings pending before FERC involving transmission matters. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of these electric industry restructuring proceedings on
their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

 Periodic reviews of the values of CMS Energy's and Consumers' assets could result in impairment charges.  

CMS Energy and Consumers are required by GAAP to review periodically the carrying value of their assets, including those that may be sold.
Market conditions, the operational characteristics of their assets, and other factors could result in recording impairment charges for their assets, which could have an adverse effect on their
stockholders equity and their access to additional financing. In addition, CMS Energy and Consumers may be required to record impairment charges at the time they sell assets, depending on the
sale prices they are able to secure and other factors. 

 CMS Energy and Consumers could incur significant costs to comply with environmental requirements.  

CMS Energy, Consumers, and their subsidiaries are subject to costly and increasingly stringent environmental regulations. They believe that
environmental laws and
regulations related to their operations will continue to become more stringent and require them to make additional significant capital expenditures for emissions control equipment. 


In
2011, the EPA finalized and promulgated CSAPR as a replacement for CAIR. In August 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit voided CSAPR and held that CAIR would 

35




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

remain
in place until the EPA promulgated a new rule. A request by the EPA for a rehearing of this ruling was denied. 

In
December 2011, the EPA issued the maximum achievable control technology standard for electric generating units, also known as MATS. This rule is expected to have a significant impact on Consumers'
coal-fueled generating fleet. 

In
addition, the EPA is continually in the process of tightening standards for air quality. The EPA recently proposed new rules relating to fine particulate matter and ozone. These changes could also
have a significant impact on Consumers' coal-fueled generating fleet. 

In
May 2010, the EPA issued a final rule that addresses greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act permitting programs. The "tailoring rule" sets thresholds for
greenhouse gas emissions that define when permits under the NSR and Title V programs are required for new and existing industrial facilities. This regulation took effect in January 2011. In March
2012, the EPA released its proposed "Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions for New Stationary Sources: Electric Utility Generating Units." The proposed rule applies only to new
fossil-fuel-fired steam electric generating units and would require that carbon dioxide emissions not exceed those of a modern, efficient natural gas combined-cycle-plant,
regardless of fuel type. The EPA is also expected to propose emissions guidelines within the next one to three years for states to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from existing generating stations.
In addition, legislation to regulate, control, or limit greenhouse gases could be enacted in the future by the U.S. Congress. 

In
2012, 98 percent of the energy generated by Consumers came from fossil-fueled power plants, with 80 percent coming from coal-fueled power plants. CMS Enterprises
also has interests in fossil-fueled power plants and other types of power plants that produce greenhouse gases. The aforementioned federal laws and rules, as well as additional laws and rules, if
enacted, and international accords and treaties, could require CMS Energy and Consumers to install additional equipment for emission controls, purchase carbon emissions allowances, curtail
operations, invest in non-fossil-fuel generating capacity, or take other significant steps to manage or lower the emission of greenhouse gases. 

The
following risks related to climate change and emissions could also have a material adverse impact on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of
operations:



•litigation originated by third parties against CMS Energy, Consumers, or their subsidiaries due to
CMS Energy's or Consumers' greenhouse gas or other emissions; •impairment of CMS Energy's or Consumers' reputation due to their greenhouse gas or other emissions and public
perception of their response to potential environmental regulations, rules, and legislation; and •extreme weather conditions, such as severe storms, that may affect customer demand,
company operations, or assets. 


The
EPA is considering regulating CCRs, such as coal ash, as hazardous wastes under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Michigan already regulates CCRs as low-hazard industrial
waste. If coal ash is regulated as a hazardous waste, Consumers would likely cease the beneficial re-use of this product, resulting in significantly more coal ash requiring costly
disposal. Additionally, it is possible that existing landfills could be closed if the upgrades to hazardous waste landfill standards are economically prohibitive. Costs associated with this potential
regulation could be substantial. 

36




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

The
EPA is revising regulations that govern cooling water intake structures aimed at protecting aquatic life and that govern water discharges. Costs associated with these revisions could be material
to CMS Energy, Consumers, and CMS Enterprises and result in operational changes or possibly significant impacts on the economics of generating units. In addition, the EPA is expected to
propose new regulations in 2013 for wastewater discharges from electric generating
plants. These new regulations may require physical and/or chemical treatment facilities for all waste water. 

CMS Energy
and Consumers expect to collect fully from their customers, through the ratemaking process, expenditures incurred to comply with environmental regulations, but cannot guarantee this
outcome. If Consumers were unable to recover these expenditures from customers in rates, it could negatively affect CMS Energy's and/or Consumers' liquidity, results of operations, and
financial condition and CMS Energy and/or Consumers could be required to seek significant additional financing to fund these expenditures. 


For
additional information regarding compliance with environmental regulations, see Item 1. Business, CMS Energy and Consumers Environmental Compliance and Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data, MD&A, Outlook, "Consumers Electric Utility Business Outlook and Uncertainties." 

 CMS Energy's and Consumers' businesses could be affected adversely by any delay in meeting environmental requirements.  

A delay or failure by CMS Energy or Consumers to obtain or maintain any necessary environmental permits, approvals under the MISO tariff, or
approvals to satisfy any applicable environmental regulatory requirements or install emission control equipment could:



•prevent the construction of new facilities; •prevent the continued operation and sale of energy from existing facilities;
•prevent the suspension of operations at existing facilities; •prevent the modification of existing facilities; or
•result in significant additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition,
and results of operations. 


 CMS Energy and Consumers expect to incur additional significant costs related to remediation of legacy environmental sites.  

Consumers is presently monitoring or remediating 23 former MGP sites. Consumers is working collaboratively with the MDEQ to agree upon executable
remediation plans. About one-third of the 23 sites have been remediated to the extent possible and are now being monitored. The remaining sites are being actively remediated through
excavation, treatment at the site, containment, and/or natural reduction; two of these sites require complex remediation plans due to the involvement of surface water. 


The
MDEQ established a "No Further Action" status for these sites and others like them in late 2010 and is presently overhauling the implementation of the 2010 statutory revisions with a focus on
streamlining the process, reasonable and consistent implementation, and risk-based techniques. 

CMS Energy
and Consumers expect to incur additional significant costs related to the remediation of these former MGP sites. Based upon prior MPSC orders, Consumers expects to 

37




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

be
able to recover the costs of these cleanup activities through its gas rates, but cannot guarantee that outcome. 

In
addition, CMS Energy retained environmental remediation obligations for the collection and treatment of leachate at Bay Harbor after selling its interests in the development in 2002.
Leachate is produced when water enters into cement kiln dust piles left over from former cement plant operations at the site. CMS Energy has signed agreements with the EPA and the MDEQ relating
to Bay Harbor. If CMS Energy were unable to meet its commitments under these agreements, or if unanticipated events occurred, CMS Energy could incur additional material costs relating to
its Bay Harbor remediation obligations. 

Consumers
also expects to incur remediation and other response activity costs at a number of other sites under NREPA and Superfund. Consumers believes these costs should be recoverable in rates, but
cannot guarantee that outcome. 

 CMS Energy and Consumers could be affected adversely by legacy litigation and retained liabilities.  

In 2002, CMS Energy notified appropriate regulatory and governmental agencies that some employees at CMS MST and CMS Field
Services appeared to have provided inaccurate information regarding natural gas trades to various energy industry publications which compile and report index prices. CMS Energy has cooperated
with the DOJ's investigation regarding this matter. CMS Energy is unable to predict the outcome of the DOJ investigation or the amount of any fines or penalties that may be imposed and what
effect, if any, the investigation will have on CMS Energy. 

CMS Energy,
CMS MST, CMS Field Services, Cantera Natural Gas, Inc., and Cantera Gas Company were named as defendants in various lawsuits arising as a result of alleged
false natural gas price reporting. Allegations included manipulation of NYMEX natural gas futures and options prices, price-fixing conspiracies, and artificial inflation of natural gas retail prices
in Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, and Wisconsin. CMS Energy cannot predict the outcome of the lawsuits or the amount of damages for which CMS Energy may be liable. It is possible that the
outcome in one or more of the lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

The
agreements that CMS Energy and Consumers enter into for the sale of assets customarily include provisions whereby they are required to:



•retain specified preexisting liabilities, such as for taxes, pensions, or environmental conditions; •indemnify the buyers against
specified risks, including the inaccuracy of representations and warranties that
CMS Energy and Consumers make; and •make payments to the buyers depending on the outcome of post-closing adjustments, litigation, audits, or other
reviews, including claims resulting from attempts by foreign or domestic governments to assess taxes on past operations or transactions. 


Many
of these contingent liabilities can remain open for extended periods of time after the sales are closed. Depending on the extent to which the buyers may ultimately seek to enforce their rights
under these contractual provisions, and the resolution of any disputes concerning them, there could be a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's or Consumers' liquidity, financial condition,
and results of operations. 

38




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

In
January 2002, CMS Energy sold its oil, gas, and methanol investments in Equatorial Guinea. The government of Equatorial Guinea claims that CMS Energy owes $142 million in
taxes, plus interest, in connection with the sale. CMS Energy has concluded that the government's tax claim is without merit. The government of Equatorial Guinea indicated through a request for
arbitration in October 2011 that it still intends to pursue its claim. CMS Energy is vigorously contesting the claim, and cannot predict the financial impact or outcome of this matter. It is
possible that the outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

 CMS Energy's and Consumers' energy sales and operations are affected by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year to year.  

CMS Energy's and Consumers' businesses are seasonal. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer cooling season and the winter heating
season. Demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. Accordingly, their overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Mild temperatures during the summer
cooling season and winter heating season could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

 Consumers is exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in its service territories.  

Consumers' electric and gas utility businesses are affected by the economic conditions impacting the customers they serve. Although Consumers
believes that economic conditions in Michigan are improving, the economy in Consumers' service territories
continues to be affected adversely by the recession and its impact on the state's automotive and real estate sectors and by relatively high unemployment. In addition, Consumers' largest single
customer has experienced sharply reduced electric demand. The Michigan economy also has been affected negatively by the uncertainty in the financial and credit markets. If economic conditions in
Michigan decline further, Consumers may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. In addition, economic conditions in Consumers'
service territory affect its collections of accounts receivable and levels of lost or stolen gas, which in turn impact its liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

 CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to information security risks, risks of unauthorized access to their systems, and technology failures.  

In the regular course of business, CMS Energy and Consumers handle a range of sensitive security and customer information. CMS Energy and Consumers
are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. A security breach of CMS Energy's and Consumers' information
systems could involve theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, such as confidential customer information or, separately, system operating information. These events could
disrupt operations, subject CMS Energy and Consumers to possible financial liability, damage their reputation and diminish the confidence of customers, and have a material adverse effect on CMS
Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial conditions, and results of operations. 

CMS
Energy and Consumers operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite implementation
of security measures, CMS Energy's and Consumers' technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures, cyber crime, and unauthorized access. Those failures or breaches could impact the
reliability of electric and gas generation and delivery and also subject 

39




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

CMS
Energy and Consumers to financial harm. Cyber crime, which includes the use of malware, computer viruses, and other means for disruption or unauthorized access against companies, including CMS
Energy and Consumers, has increased in frequency, scope, and potential impact in recent years. While CMS Energy and Consumers have not been subject to cyber crime incidents that have had a material
impact on their operations to date, their security measures in place may be insufficient to prevent a major cyber attack in the future. If CMS Energy's and Consumers' technology systems were to fail
or be breached, CMS Energy and Consumers might not be able to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive confidential and proprietary data
could be compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

A
variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support critical functions. The failure of
these technologies, or the inability of CMS Energy and Consumers to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded, or integrated into other technologies, could hinder their business operations
and materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

 CMS Energy's and Consumers' businesses have safety risks.  

Consumers' electric and gas delivery systems, power plants, gas infrastructure, and energy products could be involved in accidents that result in
injury or property loss to customers, employees, or the public. Although CMS Energy and Consumers have insurance coverage for many potential incidents (subject to deductibles and
self-insurance amounts that could be material), depending upon the nature or severity of any incident or accident, CMS Energy or Consumers could suffer financial loss, damage to its
reputation, and negative repercussions from regulatory agencies or other public authorities. 

 CMS Energy's and Consumers' revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond their control, including but not limited to natural disasters, terrorist
attacks or related acts of war, hostile cyber intrusions, or other catastrophic events.  

The impact of natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts, cyber intrusions, and other catastrophic events on the facilities and operations of CMS Energy
and Consumers could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. A terrorist attack on physical infrastructure or a major natural disaster could
result in severe damage to CMS Energy's and Consumers' assets beyond what could be recovered through insurance policies. Hostile cyber intrusions, including those targeting information systems as well
as electronic control systems used at the generating plants and for the electric and gas distribution systems, could severely disrupt business operations and result in loss of service to customers, as
well as significant expense to repair security breaches or system damage. Terrorist attacks or acts of war could result in the disruption of power and fuel markets that could increase costs or disrupt
service. Widespread outages in Consumers' systems as a result of storms, floods, or other natural disasters could result in a prolonged loss of service to customers and significant expense to repair
system damages. There is a risk that the regulators could assess Consumers' preparedness or response as inadequate and take adverse actions as a result. 

Instability
in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, credit crises, recessions, or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers'
liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

40






<A
NAME="page_ci11101_1_41"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

 CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to significant reputational risks.  

Consumers is actively engaged in multiple regulatory oversight processes and has a large electric and gas customer base. As a result, Consumers has a
highly visible public profile in Michigan. Consumers and CMS Energy could suffer negative impacts to their reputations as a result of operational incidents, violations of corporate compliance
policies, regulatory violations, or other events. This could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. It could also
result in negative customer perception and increased regulatory oversight. 

 The markets for alternative energy and distributed generation could impact financial results.  

Advances in technology could reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing electricity, such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills, and
photovoltaic (solar) cells, to a level that is competitive with that of fossil-fuel technology utilized by CMS Energy and Consumers to produce a majority of their electricity. It is also
possible that electric customers could reduce their electric consumption significantly through demand-side energy conservation programs. Changes in technology could also alter the channels
through which electric customers buy electricity. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations. 

 Energy risk management strategies may not be effective in managing fuel and electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities to CMS Energy and
Consumers or increased volatility in their earnings.  

Consumers is exposed to changes in market prices for natural gas, coal, electricity, emission allowances, and RECs. Prices for natural gas, coal,
electricity, emission allowances, and RECs may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose Consumers to commodity price risk. A substantial portion of Consumers' operating
expenses for its plants consists of the costs of obtaining these commodities. Consumers manages these risks using established policies and procedures, and it may use various contracts to manage these
risks, including swaps, options, futures, and forward contracts. No assurance can be made that these strategies will be successful in managing Consumers' pricing risk or that they will not result in
net liabilities to Consumers as a result of future volatility in these markets. 

Natural
gas prices in particular have been historically volatile. Consumers routinely enters into contracts to mitigate exposure to the risks of demand, market effects of weather, and changes in
commodity prices associated with its gas distribution business. These contracts are executed in conjunction with the GCR mechanism, which is designed to allow Consumers to recover prudently incurred
costs associated with those positions. If the MPSC determined that any of these contracts or related contracting policies were imprudent, recovery of these costs could be disallowed. Consumers does
not always hedge the entire exposure of its operations from commodity price volatility. Furthermore, the ability to hedge exposure to commodity price volatility depends on liquid commodity markets. As
a result, to the extent the commodity markets are illiquid, Consumers may not be able to execute its risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than preferred at a
given time. To the extent that unhedged positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices could have a negative effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of
operations. 

41




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


 CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to credit risk of those with whom they do business.  

CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom they do business. Adverse economic conditions or financial
difficulties experienced by these counterparties could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for CMS Energy's and Consumers' services or fulfill their contractual obligations, including
performance and payment of damages. CMS Energy and Consumers depend on these counterparties to remit payments and perform services timely. Any delay or default in payment or performance of contractual
obligations could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 


In
recent years, the capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented high levels of volatility and disruption. Market volatility and disruption could have a negative impact on CMS Energy's
and Consumers' lenders, suppliers, customers, and other counterparties, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. Adverse economic conditions could also have a negative impact on the loan
portfolio of CMS Energy's banking subsidiary, EnerBank. 

 Consumers may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal or natural gas, which could limit its ability to operate its electric generation facilities or serve its
natural gas customers.  

Consumers is dependent on coal for a significant portion of its electric generating capacity. While Consumers has coal supply and transportation
contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to Consumers. The suppliers under the agreements may experience
financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to Consumers. In addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to Consumers
under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If Consumers were unable to obtain its coal requirements under existing or future coal supply and transportation contracts, it
might be required to purchase coal at higher prices or forced to purchase electricity from higher cost generating resources in the Midwest Energy Market, which would increase Consumers' working
capital requirements. 

Consumers
has firm interstate transportation and supply agreements in place to facilitate deliveries of natural gas to its customers. Apart from the contractual and monetary remedies available to
Consumers in the event of a counterparty's failure to perform, there can be no assurances that the counterparties to these firm interstate transportation and supply agreements will fulfill their
obligations to provide natural gas to Consumers. In addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to deliver natural gas to Consumers in certain circumstances, such as in the event of
a natural disaster. If Consumers were unable to obtain its natural gas supply requirements under existing or future natural gas supply and transportation contracts, it could be required to purchase
natural gas at higher prices from other sources or implement its natural gas curtailment program filed with the MPSC, which would increase Consumers' working capital requirements and decrease its
natural gas revenues. 

 Market performance and other changes could decrease the value of employee benefit plan assets, which then could require significant funding.  

The performance of the capital markets affects the values of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under CMS Energy's and
Consumers' pension and postretirement benefit plans. CMS Energy and Consumers have significant obligations under these plans and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to
market fluctuations and will 

42




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

yield
uncertain returns, which may fall below CMS Energy's and Consumers' forecasted return rates. A decline in the market value of the assets or a change in the level of interest rates used to
measure the required minimum funding levels may significantly increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Also, changes in demographics, including an increased number of retirements or
changes in life expectancy assumptions, may significantly increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, while CMS Energy
and Consumers presently do not expect that the Health Care Acts will significantly increase obligations of their postretirement benefit plans, they cannot guarantee this outcome. If CMS Energy and
Consumers are unable to manage their pension and postretirement plan assets successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

 A work interruption or other union actions could adversely affect Consumers.  

Over 40 percent of Consumers' employees are represented by unions. If these employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other
slowdown, or if the terms and conditions in labor agreements were renegotiated, Consumers could experience a significant disruption in its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Additionally,
while Consumers presently has good relationships with the unions representing its employees, Consumers cannot predict the impact of recent Right to Work legislation on union negotiations and
relationships when existing union contracts expire. 

 Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm CMS Energy's and Consumers' results of operations.  

The workforce of CMS Energy and Consumers is aging and a number of employees will become eligible to retire within the next few years. If CMS Energy
and Consumers were unable to match skill sets to future needs, they could encounter operating challenges and increased costs. These challenges could include a lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and
delays in skill development. Additionally, higher costs could result from the use of contractors to replace employees, loss of productivity, and safety incidents. Failing to train replacement
employees adequately and to transfer internal knowledge and expertise could affect CMS Energy's and Consumers' ability to manage and operate their businesses. If CMS Energy and Consumers were unable
to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be affected negatively. 


 Unplanned power plant outages could be costly for Consumers.  

Unforeseen maintenance of our power plants may be required for many reasons, including catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, or
other acts of God, equipment failure, operator error, or to comply with environmental or safety regulations. When unplanned maintenance work is required on power plants or other equipment, Consumers
will not only incur unexpected maintenance expenses, but it may also have to make spot market purchases of replacement electricity that exceed Consumers' costs of generation. Additionally, unplanned
maintenance work may reduce the capacity credit Consumers receives from MISO and may cause Consumers to incur additional capacity costs in future years. If Consumers were unable to recover any of
these increased costs in rates, it could have a material adverse effect on Consumers' liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 

43




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact CMS Energy's and Consumers' results
of operations.  

CMS Energy and Consumers are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of
operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. The tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use taxes, employment-related taxes, and ongoing issues related to
these tax matters. The judgments include determining reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and may be subject to challenge by the IRS and/or other taxing
authorities. Unfavorable settlements of any of the issues related to these reserves at CMS Energy or Consumers could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition, and results
of operations. 

CMS
Energy and Consumers are subject to changing tax laws. Increases in local, state, or federal tax rates or other changes in tax laws could have adverse impacts on their liquidity, financial
condition, and results of operations. 

 CMS Energy and its subsidiaries, including Consumers and EnerBank, must comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and its related regulations, which are subject to change and may
involve material costs or affect operations.  

In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was passed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is a sweeping piece of legislation, and the financial
services industry is still assessing the impacts. Congress detailed some significant changes, but the Dodd-Frank Act leaves many details to be determined by regulation and further study.
Regulations that are intended to implement the Dodd-Frank Act are being adopted by the appropriate agencies. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection, which is part of the Federal Reserve and has been granted significant rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. The direction that the
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are not yet fully known. 

The
Dodd-Frank Act added a new Section 13 to the Bank Holding Company Act. Known as the Volcker Rule, it generally restricts certain banking entities (such as EnerBank) and their
subsidiaries or affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading activities and from owning equity in or sponsoring any private equity or hedge fund. The statutory effective date of the Volcker Rule
was July 2012, but it is subject to certain transition periods and exceptions for "permitted activities." In April 2012, the Federal Reserve Board issued a statement clarifying that banks and other
financial institutions have until July 2014 to conform fully their activities and investments to the requirements, but final implementing regulations have not yet been issued. Under the statute and
based on draft regulations issued in October 2011, the activities of CMS Energy and its subsidiaries (including EnerBank) are not expected to be materially affected; however, they would be restricted
from engaging in proprietary trading, investing in third-party hedge or private equity funds, and sponsoring these funds in the future unless CMS Energy qualified for an exemption from the rule. CMS
Energy cannot predict the full impact of the Volcker Rule on CMS Energy's or EnerBank's operations or financial condition until final regulations are issued. 

Furthermore,
effective July 2011, all companies that directly or indirectly control an FDIC-insured bank are required to serve as a source of financial strength for that institution. As a
result, CMS Energy could be called upon by the FDIC to infuse additional capital into EnerBank to the extent that EnerBank fails to satisfy its capital requirements. In addition, CMS 

44




 

<A
HREF="#bg11101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

Energy
is contractually required (i) to make cash capital contributions to EnerBank in the event that EnerBank does not maintain required minimum capital ratios and (ii) to provide
EnerBank financial support, in an amount and duration as may be necessary for EnerBank to meet the cash needs of its depositors and other operations. EnerBank has exceeded these requirements
historically and exceeds them as of February 2013. 

In
addition, the Dodd-Frank Act potentially provides for regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of certain energy-related contracts. CMS Energy expects that it and its subsidiaries
will qualify for an end-user exception, but these regulations could affect the ability of CMS Energy and its subsidiaries to participate in these markets and could add additional regulatory oversight
over their contracting activities. Although CMS Energy and Consumers do not expect that this will have material impacts on their energy contracting activities, they cannot predict the outcome. 


 CMS Energy could be required to pay cash to certain security holders in connection with the optional conversion of their convertible securities.  

CMS Energy has outstanding one series of cash-convertible securities, of which an aggregate principal amount of $172 million was
outstanding at December 31, 2012. If the trading price of CMS Energy's common stock exceeds a specified amount at the end of a particular fiscal quarter, then holders of these convertible
securities will have the option to convert their securities in the following fiscal quarter, with the principal amount payable in cash by CMS Energy. Accordingly, if the trading price minimum is
satisfied and security holders exercise their conversion rights, CMS Energy may be required to outlay a significant amount of cash to those security holders and recognize losses, which could have a
material adverse effect on CMS Energy's liquidity and results of operations. 

 CMS Energy's and Consumers' financial statements, including their reported earnings, could be significantly impacted by convergence with International Financial Reporting
Standards.  

The Financial Accounting Standards Board is expected to make broad changes to GAAP as part of an overall initiative to converge U.S. standards with
International Financial Reporting Standards. These changes could have significant impacts on the financial statements of CMS Energy and Consumers. Also, the SEC is considering incorporating
International Financial Reporting Standards into the financial reporting system for U.S. registrants. A transition to International Financial Reporting Standards could significantly impact CMS
Energy's and Consumers' financial results, since these standards differ from GAAP in many ways. One of the major differences is the lack of special accounting treatment for regulated activities under
International Financial Reporting Standards, which could result in greater earnings volatility for CMS Energy and Consumers. 

<A
NAME="ci11101_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
 
  ITEM 1B