ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

RISKS RELATED TO CMS ENERGY

CMS ENERGY DEPENDS ON DIVIDENDS FROM ITS SUBSIDIARIES TO MEET ITS DEBT SERVICE
OBLIGATIONS.

     Due to its holding company structure, CMS Energy depends on dividends from
its subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations. Restrictions contained in
Consumers' preferred stock provisions and other legal restrictions, such as
certain terms in its articles of incorporation, limit Consumers' ability to pay
dividends or acquire its own stock from CMS Energy. As of December 31, 2006, the
most restrictive provisions in its financing documents allowed Consumers to pay
an aggregate of $300 million in dividends to CMS Energy during any year. At
December 31, 2006, Consumers had $215 million of unrestricted retained earnings
available to pay common stock dividends. If sufficient dividends are not paid to
CMS Energy by its subsidiaries, CMS Energy may not be able to generate the funds
necessary to fulfill its cash obligations, thereby adversely affecting its
liquidity and financial condition.

CMS ENERGY HAS SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS THAT COULD LIMIT ITS FINANCIAL
FLEXIBILITY AND HENCE ITS ABILITY TO MEET ITS DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS.

     As of December 31, 2006, CMS Energy had outstanding approximately $2.450
billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, including approximately $178
million of subordinated indebtedness relating to its convertible preferred
securities but excluding approximately $4.495 billion of indebtedness of its
subsidiaries. In May 2005, CMS Energy entered into the Sixth Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement in the amount of approximately $300 million. As of
December 31, 2006, there were approximately $98 million of letters of credit
outstanding under the Sixth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. CMS Energy
and its subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future.

     The level of CMS Energy's present and future indebtedness could have
several important effects on its future operations, including, among others:

     - a significant portion of its cash flow from operations will be dedicated
       to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness and will not
       be available for other purposes;

     - covenants contained in its existing debt arrangements require it to meet
       certain financial tests, which may affect its flexibility in planning
       for, and reacting to, changes in its business;

     - its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital
       expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes may
       be limited;

     - it may be at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors that are less
       leveraged; and

     - its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions may
       increase.

     CMS Energy's ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its
total indebtedness will be dependent upon its future performance, which will be
subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business
and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its
control. CMS Energy cannot make assurances that its business will continue to
generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness. If it
is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, it may be required
to sell additional assets or obtain additional financings. CMS Energy cannot
assure that additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable
terms or at all.

CMS ENERGY CANNOT PREDICT THE OUTCOME OF CLAIMS REGARDING ITS PARTICIPATION IN
THE DEVELOPMENT OF BAY HARBOR OR OTHER LITIGATION IN WHICH SUBSTANTIAL MONETARY
CLAIMS ARE INVOLVED.

     As part of the development of Bay Harbor by certain subsidiaries of CMS
Energy, which went forward under an agreement with the MDEQ, third parties
constructed a golf course and a park over several abandoned cement kiln dust
(CKD) piles, left over from the former cement plant operation on the Bay Harbor
site. Pursuant to the agreement with the MDEQ, a water collection system was
constructed to recover seep water from one of the CKD piles and CMS Energy built
a treatment plant to treat the seep water. In 2002, CMS Energy sold its interest
in Bay

                                       26



Harbor, but retained its obligations under previous environmental
indemnifications entered into at the inception of the project.

     In September 2004, the MDEQ issued a notice of noncompliance after finding
high-pH seep water in Lake Michigan adjacent to the property. The MDEQ also
found higher than acceptable levels of heavy metals, including mercury, in the
seep water.

     In February 2005, the EPA executed an Administrative Order on Consent (AOC)
to address problems at Bay Harbor, upon the consent of CMS Land Company (CMS
Land) and CMS Capital, LLC, both subsidiaries of CMS Energy. Pursuant to the
AOC, the EPA approved a Removal Action Work Plan in July 2005. Among other
things, this plan calls for the installation of collection trenches to intercept
high pH CKD leachate flow to the lake. All collection systems contemplated in
this work plan have been installed. Shoreline effectiveness monitoring is
ongoing, and CMS Land is obligated to address any observed exceedances in pH.
This may potentially include the augmentation of the collection system. In May
2006, the EPA approved a pilot carbon dioxide augmentation plan to augment the
leachate recovery system by improving pH results in the Pine Court area of the
collection system. The augmentation system was installed in June 2006.

     In February 2006, CMS Land submitted to the EPA a proposed Remedial
Investigation and Feasibility Study for the East Park CKD pile. The EPA approved
a schedule for near-term activities, which include consolidating certain CKD
materials and installing collection trenches in the East Park leachate release
area. In June 2006, the EPA approved an East Park CKD Removal Action Work Plan
and Final Engineering Design for Consolidation. CMS Energy and the MDEQ have
initiated negotiations of an AOC and to define a long-term remedy at East Park.

     The owner of one parcel of land at Bay Harbor has filed a lawsuit in Emmet
County Circuit Court against CMS Energy and several of its subsidiaries, as well
as Bay Harbor Golf Club Inc., Bay Harbor Company LLC, David C. Johnson, and
David V. Johnson, one of the developers at Bay Harbor. Several of these
defendants have demanded indemnification from CMS Energy and affiliates for the
claims made against them in the lawsuit. After a hearing in March 2006 on
motions filed by CMS Energy and other defendants, the judge dismissed various
counts of the complaint. CMS Energy will defend vigorously the existing case and
any other property damage and personal injury claims or lawsuits. In November
2006, the judge ruled against a motion to dismiss the remaining counts, and the
action is scheduled to go to trial in May 2007. CMS Land has entered into
various access, purchase and settlement agreements with several of the affected
landowners at Bay Harbor. CMS Land has purchased five unimproved lots and two
lots with houses. At this time, CMS Land believes it has all necessary access
arrangements to complete the remediation work required under the AOC.

     CMS Energy has recorded a cumulative charge of $93 million for its
obligations. An adverse outcome of this matter could, depending on the size of
any indemnification obligation or liability under environmental laws, have a
potentially significant adverse effect on CMS Energy's financial condition and
liquidity and could negatively impact CMS Energy's financial results. CMS Energy
cannot predict the ultimate cost or outcome of this matter.

     In addition to the litigation and proceedings discussed above, CMS Energy
or various of its subsidiaries are parties in other pending litigation in which
substantial monetary damages are sought. An adverse outcome in one or more of
these cases could, depending on the timing and size of any award and the
availability of insurance or reimbursement from third parties, have an adverse
effect on CMS Energy's financial condition, liquidity or future results of
operations.

CMS ENERGY RETAINS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES IN CONNECTION WITH ITS ASSET SALES.

     The agreements CMS Energy enters into for the sale of assets customarily
include provisions whereby it is required to:

     - retain specified preexisting liabilities such as for taxes, pensions, or
       environmental conditions;

     - indemnify the buyers against specified risks, including the inaccuracy of
       representations and warranties it makes; and

     - require payments to the buyers depending on the outcome of post-closing
       adjustments, litigation, audits or other reviews.


                                       27



     Many of these contingent liabilities can remain open for extended periods
of time after the sales are closed. Depending on the extent to which the buyers
may ultimately seek to enforce their rights under these contractual provisions,
and the resolution of any disputes CMS Energy may have concerning them, these
liabilities could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition,
liquidity and future results of operations. See ITEM 7. CMS ENERGY'S
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS -- EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW.

CMS ENERGY HAS MADE SUBSTANTIAL INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO
POSSIBLE NATIONALIZATION, EXPROPRIATION OR INABILITY TO CONVERT CURRENCY.

     CMS Energy's investments in selected markets around the world in electric
generating facilities, natural gas pipelines and electric distribution systems
face a number of risks inherent in acquiring, developing and owning these types
of international facilities. Although CMS Energy maintains insurance for various
risk exposures, including political risk from possible nationalization,
expropriation or inability to convert currency, it is exposed to some risks that
include local political and economic factors over which it has no control, such
as changes in foreign governmental and regulatory policies (including changes in
industrial regulation and control and changes in taxation), changing political
conditions and international monetary fluctuations. In some cases an investment
may have to be abandoned or disposed of at a loss. These factors could have a
significant adverse effect on the financial results of the affected subsidiary
and CMS Energy's financial position and results of operations.

     International investments of the type CMS Energy has made are subject to
the risk that the investments may be expropriated or that the required
agreements, licenses, permits and other approvals may be changed or terminated
in violation of their terms. These kinds of changes could result in a partial or
total loss of CMS Energy's investment.

     The local foreign currency may be devalued, the conversion of the currency
may be restricted or prohibited or other actions, such as increases in taxes,
royalties or import duties, may be taken which adversely affect the value and
the recovery of CMS Energy's investment.

CMS ENERGY'S NATURAL GAS PIPELINE AND ELECTRIC GENERATION PROJECT LOCATED IN
ARGENTINA AND CHILE MAY BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY ARGENTINE GOVERNMENTAL
RESTRICTIONS PLACED ON NATURAL GAS EXPORTS TO CHILE AND THE EFFECTS OF THESE
RESTRICTIONS ON THE PROJECT'S CONTRACTS FOR THE SALE OF POWER.

     In 2004, the Argentine government authorized the restriction of exports of
natural gas to Chile, giving priority to domestic demand in Argentina. This
restriction had a harmful effect on GasAtacama's earnings since GasAtacama's
gas-fired electric generating plant is located in Chile and uses Argentine gas
for fuel. Bolivia agreed to export 4 million cubic meters of gas per day to
Argentina. With the Bolivian gas supply, Argentina relaxed its export
restrictions to GasAtacama.

     In May 2006, the Bolivian government nationalized the natural gas industry
and raised prices under its existing gas export contracts. Gas supply to
GasAtacama was restricted as Argentina and Bolivia renegotiated the price for
gas. In July 2006, Argentina agreed to increase the price it pays for gas from
Bolivia. Argentina also announced that it would recover all of this price
increase by a special tax on its gas exports. This increased the risk and cost
of GasAtacama's fuel supply.

     In August 2006, a major gas supplier notified GasAtacama that it would no
longer deliver gas to GasAtacama under the Argentine government's current
policy. In the third quarter of 2006, CMS Energy performed an impairment
analysis and recorded an impairment charge of $239 million ($169 million, net of
tax and minority interest) on its Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). At
December 31, 2006, the carrying value of CMS Energy's investment in GasAtacama
was $117 million. This remaining value continues to be exposed to the threat of
a complete gas restriction by Argentina and the inability of GasAtacama to pass
through the increased costs associated with such a restriction to its regulated
customers. Therefore, if conditions do not improve, the result could be a
further impairment of CMS Energy's investment in GasAtacama.

     In February 2007, CMS Energy announced plans to conduct an auction to sell
GasAtacama. CMS Energy expects to complete the sale by the end of 2007.


                                       28



RISKS RELATED TO CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS

CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS HAVE FINANCING NEEDS AND THEY MAY BE UNABLE TO
SUCCESSFULLY ACCESS BANK FINANCING OR THE CAPITAL MARKETS.

     Consumers expects to incur significant costs for capital expenditures,
including future environmental regulation compliance, especially compliance with
clean air laws. See "CMS Energy and Consumers could incur significant capital
expenditures to comply with environmental standards and face difficulty in
recovering these costs on a current basis" below. As of December 31, 2006,
Consumers had incurred $688 million in capital expenditures to comply with the
federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations and anticipate that the
remaining $147 million of capital expenditures will be made in 2007 through
2011.

     CMS Energy and Consumers may be subject to liquidity demands pursuant to
commercial commitments under guarantees, indemnities and letters of credit.
Management is actively pursuing plans to sell assets. There can be no assurances
that this business plan will be successful and failure to achieve its goals
could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy's and Consumers' liquidity
and operations.

     CMS Energy continues to explore financing opportunities to supplement its
financial plan. These potential opportunities include: refinancing its bank
credit facilities, entering into leasing arrangements and refinancing and/or
issuing new capital markets debt, preferred stock and/or common equity. CMS
Energy cannot guarantee the capital market's acceptance of its securities or
predict the impact of factors beyond its control, such as actions of rating
agencies. If CMS Energy is unable to access bank financing or the capital
markets to incur or refinance indebtedness, there could be a material adverse
effect upon its liquidity and operations.

     Similarly, Consumers currently plans to seek funds through the capital
markets and commercial lenders. Entering into new financings is subject in part
to capital market receptivity to utility industry securities in general and to
Consumers' securities issuances in particular. Consumers cannot guarantee the
capital market's acceptance of its securities or predict the impact of factors
beyond its control, such as actions of rating agencies. If Consumers is unable
to access bank financing or the capital markets to incur or refinance
indebtedness, there could be a material adverse effect upon its liquidity and
operations.

     Certain of CMS Energy's securities and those of its affiliates, including
Consumers, are rated by various credit rating agencies. Any reduction or
withdrawal of one or more of its credit ratings could have a material adverse
impact on CMS Energy's ability to access capital on acceptable terms and
maintain commodity lines of credit and could make its cost of borrowing higher.
If it is unable to maintain commodity lines of credit, CMS Energy may have to
post collateral or make prepayments to certain of its suppliers pursuant to
existing contracts with them. Further, any adverse developments to Consumers,
which provides dividends to CMS Energy, that result in a lowering of Consumers'
credit ratings could have an adverse effect on CMS Energy's credit ratings. CMS
Energy and Consumers cannot guarantee that any of their current ratings will
remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be
lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency.

PERIODIC REVIEWS OF THE VALUES OF CMS ENERGY'S AND CONSUMERS' ASSETS COULD
RESULT IN ACCOUNTING CHARGES.

     CMS Energy and Consumers are required by GAAP to periodically review the
carrying value of their assets, including those that may be sold. Market
conditions, the operational characteristics of their assets and other factors
could result in recording additional impairment charges for their assets, which
could have an adverse effect on their stockholders' equity and their access to
additional financing. In addition, they may be required to record impairment
charges and/or foreign currency translation losses at the time they sell assets,
depending on the sale prices they are able to secure and other factors.

CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS
REGARDING "ROUND-TRIP" TRADING BY CMS MST AS WELL AS CIVIL LAWSUITS REGARDING
PRICING INFORMATION THAT CMS MST AND CMS FIELD SERVICES PROVIDED TO MARKET
PUBLICATIONS.

     As a result of round-trip trading transactions (simultaneous, prearranged
commodity trading transactions in which energy commodities were sold and
repurchased at the same price) at CMS MST, CMS Energy is under

                                       29



investigation by the DOJ. CMS Energy received subpoenas in 2002 and 2003 from
U.S. Attorneys' Offices regarding investigations of those trades. CMS Energy
responded to those subpoenas in 2003 and 2004.

     In March 2004, the SEC approved a cease-and-desist order settling an
administrative action against CMS Energy relating to round-trip trading. The
order did not assess a fine and CMS Energy neither admitted nor denied the
order's findings.

     CMS Energy has notified appropriate regulatory and governmental agencies
that some employees at CMS MST and CMS Field Services appeared to have provided
inaccurate information regarding natural gas trades to various energy industry
publications which compile and report index prices. CMS Energy is cooperating
with an ongoing investigation by the DOJ regarding this matter. CMS Energy is
unable to predict the outcome of the DOJ investigation and what effect, if any,
the investigation will have on CMS Energy. The CFTC filed a civil injunctive
action against two former CMS Field Services employees in Oklahoma federal
district court on February 1, 2005. The action alleges the two engaged in
reporting false natural gas trade information, and seeks to enjoin such acts,
compel compliance with the Commodities Exchange Act, and impose monetary
penalties. A trial has been set for April 2007. CMS Energy is currently
advancing legal defense costs to the two individuals in accordance with existing
indemnification policies.

     CMS Energy, CMS MST, CMS Field Services, Cantera Natural Gas, Inc. (the
company that purchased CMS Field Services) and Cantera Gas Company are named as
defendants in various lawsuits arising as a result of claimed inaccurate natural
gas price reporting. Allegations include manipulation of NYMEX natural gas
futures and options prices, price-fixing conspiracies, and artificial inflation
of natural gas retail prices in California, Colorado, Kansas, Missouri,
Tennessee, and Wyoming. In September 2006, CMS MST reached an agreement in
principle to settle the master class action suit in California for $7 million.
The settlement agreement has been signed. The settlement payment is not due
until the court has approved the settlement. CMS Energy deemed this settlement
to be probable and accrued the payment in its consolidated financial statements
at September 30, 2006. CMS Energy and the other CMS Energy defendants will
defend themselves vigorously against all of these matters but cannot predict
their outcome.

     CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the outcome of the DOJ
investigations and the lawsuits. It is possible that the outcome in one or more
of the investigations or the lawsuits could adversely affect CMS Energy's and
Consumers' financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.

REGULATORY CHANGES AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS HAVE RESULTED AND COULD CONTINUE TO
RESULT IN INCREASED COMPETITION IN THE DOMESTIC ENERGY BUSINESS. GENERALLY,
INCREASED COMPETITION THREATENS MARKET SHARE IN CERTAIN SEGMENTS OF CMS ENERGY'S
BUSINESS AND CAN REDUCE ITS AND CONSUMERS' PROFITABILITY.

     Pursuant to the Customer Choice Act, as of January 1, 2002, all electric
customers in Michigan have the choice of buying electric generation service from
Consumers or an alternative electric supplier. Consumers had experienced, and
could experience in the future, a significant increase in competition for
generation services due to ROA. At December 31, 2006, alternative electric
suppliers were providing 300 MW of generation service to ROA customers. This
amount represents 3 percent of Consumers' total distribution load. It is
difficult to predict the total amount of electric supply load that may be lost
to competitor suppliers in the future.

ELECTRIC INDUSTRY REGULATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT CMS ENERGY'S AND CONSUMERS'
BUSINESS, INCLUDING THEIR ABILITY TO RECOVER COSTS FROM THEIR CUSTOMERS.

     Federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically
in the last two decades and could continue to change over the next several
years. These changes could adversely affect CMS Energy's and Consumers'
business, financial condition and profitability.

     There are multiple proceedings pending before the FERC involving
transmission rates, regional transmission organizations and electric bulk power
markets and transmission. FERC is also reviewing the standards under which
electric utilities are allowed to participate in wholesale power markets without
price restrictions. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of these
electric industry restructuring proceedings on their financial position,
liquidity or results of operations.


                                       30



CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS COULD INCUR SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES TO COMPLY
WITH ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS AND FACE DIFFICULTY IN RECOVERING THESE COSTS ON A
CURRENT BASIS.

     CMS Energy, Consumers, and their subsidiaries are subject to costly and
increasingly stringent environmental regulations. They expect that the cost of
future environmental compliance, especially compliance with clean air and water
laws, will be significant.

     In 1998, the EPA issued regulations requiring the State of Michigan to
further limit nitrogen oxide emissions at coal-fired electric generating plants.
The EPA and State of Michigan regulations require Consumers to make significant
capital expenditures estimated to be $835 million. As of December 2006,
Consumers has incurred $688 million in capital expenditures to comply with these
regulations and anticipates that the remaining $147 million of capital
expenditures will be made in 2007 through 2011. In addition to modifying coal-
fired electric plants, Consumers' compliance plan includes the use of nitrogen
oxide emission allowances until all of the control equipment is operational in
2011. The nitrogen oxide emission allowance annual expense is projected to be $3
million per year, which Consumers expects to recover from customers through the
PSCR process.

     In 2005, the EPA adopted the Clean Air Interstate Rule that requires
additional coal-fired electric plant emission controls for nitrogen oxides and
sulfur dioxide. Consumers plans to meet this rule by year-round operation of its
selective catalytic reduction control technology units and installation of flue
gas desulfurization scrubbers at an estimated total cost of $955 million, to be
incurred by 2014.

     Also in March 2005, the EPA issued the Clean Air Mercury Rule, which
requires initial reductions of mercury emissions from coal-fired electric
generating plants by 2010 and further reductions by 2018. Based on current
technology, Consumers anticipates that its capital costs for mercury emissions
reductions required by Phase I of the Clean Air Mercury Rule to be less than $50
million and expect these reductions to be implemented by 2010. Phase II
requirements of the Clean Air Mercury Rule are not yet known and a cost estimate
has not been determined.

     In April 2006, Michigan's governor announced a plan that would result in
mercury emissions reductions of 90 percent by 2015. Consumers is working with
the MDEQ on the details of these rules. We will develop a cost estimate when the
details of these rules are determined.

     Several legislative proposals have been introduced in the United States
Congress that would require reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases,
including potentially carbon dioxide. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict
whether any of these proposals will be enacted, or the specific requirements of
any of these proposals and their effect on future operations and financial
results. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear a case claiming
that the EPA is required by the Clean Air Act to consider regulating carbon
dioxide emissions from automobiles. The EPA asserts that it lacks authority to
regulate carbon dioxide emissions. If the Supreme Court finds that the EPA has
the authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions in this case, it could result
in new federal carbon dioxide regulations for other industries, including the
utility industry.

     To the extent that greenhouse gas emission reduction rules come into
effect, the mandatory emissions reduction requirements could have far-reaching
and significant implications for the energy sector. CMS Energy and Consumers
cannot estimate the potential effect of federal or state level greenhouse gas
policy on their future consolidated results of operations, cash flows, or
financial position due to the uncertain nature of the policies at this time.
However, CMS Energy and Consumers will continue to monitor greenhouse gas policy
developments and assess and respond to their potential implications on their
business operations.

     In March 2004, the EPA issued rules that govern electric generating plant
cooling water intake systems. The rules require significant reduction in fish
killed by operating equipment. EPA compliance options in the rule were
challenged in court. In January 2007, the court rejected many of the compliance
options favored by industry and remanded the bulk of the rule back to the EPA
for reconsideration. The court's ruling is expected to increase significantly
the cost of complying with this rule. However, the cost to comply will not be
known until the EPA's reconsideration is complete. At this time, the EPA has not
established a schedule to address the court decision.

     CMS Energy expects to collect fully from its customers, through the
ratemaking process, these and other required environmental expenditures.
However, if these expenditures are not recovered from customers in

                                       31



Consumers' rates, CMS Energy and/or Consumers may be required to seek
significant additional financing to fund these expenditures, which could strain
their cash resources.

CMS ENERGY'S AND CONSUMERS' REVENUES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO
RISKS THAT ARE BEYOND THEIR CONTROL, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO FUTURE
TERRORIST ATTACKS OR RELATED ACTS OF WAR.

     The cost of repairing damage to CMS Energy's and Consumers' facilities due
to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic
events, in excess of insurance recoveries and reserves established for these
repairs, may adversely impact their results of operations, financial condition
and cash flows. The occurrence or risk of occurrence of future terrorist
activity and the high cost or potential unavailability of insurance to cover
this terrorist activity may impact their results of operations and financial
condition in unpredictable ways. These actions could also result in disruptions
of power and fuel markets. In addition, their natural gas distribution system
and pipelines could be directly or indirectly harmed by future terrorist
activity.

CONSUMERS' OWNERSHIP OF A NUCLEAR GENERATING FACILITY CREATES RISK RELATING TO
NUCLEAR ENERGY.

     Consumers owns the Palisades nuclear power plant and is, therefore, subject
to the risks of nuclear generation, including the risks associated with the
operation of plant facilities and the storage and disposal of spent fuel and
other radioactive waste. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose
licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear
generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority
to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of
the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In addition, if a
serious nuclear incident were to occur at Consumers' plant, it could harm
Consumers' results of operations and financial condition. A major incident at a
nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit
the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.

     In July 2006, Consumers reached an agreement to sell the Palisades nuclear
plant to Entergy for $380 million. Consumers also signed a 15-year power
purchase agreement for 100 percent of the plant's current electric output.
Consumers expects to close the sale in 2007. The sale will result in an
immediate reduction in nuclear operating and decommissioning risk.

CONSUMERS CURRENTLY UNDERRECOVERS IN ITS RATES ITS PAYMENTS TO THE MCV
PARTNERSHIP FOR CAPACITY AND ENERGY.

     The MCV Partnership, which leases and operates the MCV Facility, contracted
to sell electricity to Consumers for a 35-year period beginning in 1990.

     The cost that we incur under the MCV PPA exceeds the recovery amount
allowed by the MPSC. We expensed underrecoveries of $57 million in 2006 and we
estimate cash underrecoveries of $39 million in 2007. However, we use the direct
savings from the RCP, after allocating a portion to customers, to offset a
portion of our capacity and fixed energy underrecoveries expense.

     After September 15, 2007, we expect to claim relief under the regulatory
out provision in the MCV PPA, thereby limiting our capacity and fixed energy
payments to the MCV Partnership to the amounts that we collect from our
customers. The MCV Partnership has notified us that it takes issue with our
intended exercise of the regulatory out provision. We believe that the provision
is valid and fully effective, but cannot assure that it will prevail in the
event of a dispute. If we are successful in exercising the regulatory out
provision, the MCV Partnership has the right to terminate the MCV PPA, which
could affect our reserve margin. We anticipate that the MPSC will review our
exercise of the regulatory out provision and the likely consequences of such
action in 2007. It is possible that in the event that the MCV Partnership ceases
performance under the MCV PPA, prior orders could limit our recovery of
replacement power costs to the amounts that the MPSC authorized for recovery
under the MCV PPA. Depending on the cost of replacement power, this could result
in our costs exceeding the recovery amount allowed by the MPSC. We cannot
predict the outcome of any future disputes concerning these issues.

     In January 2005, we implemented the MPSC-approved RCP with modifications.
The underlying RCP agreement between Consumers and the MCV Partnership extends
through the term of the MCV PPA. However, either party may terminate that
agreement under certain conditions. In January 2007, the Michigan

                                       32



Attorney General filed an appeal with the Michigan Supreme Court regarding the
MPSC's order approving the RCP. We cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

     At this time CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of these
issues on their future earnings or cash flows.

CONSUMERS' ENERGY RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES MAY NOT BE EFFECTIVE IN MANAGING
FUEL AND ELECTRICITY PRICING RISKS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN UNANTICIPATED
LIABILITIES TO CONSUMERS OR INCREASED VOLATILITY OF ITS EARNINGS.

     Consumers is exposed to changes in market prices for natural gas, coal,
electricity and emission credits. Prices for natural gas, coal, electricity and
emission credits may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of
time and expose Consumers to commodity price risk. A substantial portion of
Consumers' operating expenses for its plants consists of the costs of obtaining
these commodities. Consumers manages these risks using established policies and
procedures, and it may use various contracts to manage these risks, including
swaps, options, futures and forward contracts. No assurance can be made that
these strategies will be successful in managing Consumers' pricing risk, or that
they will not result in net liabilities to Consumers as a result of future
volatility in these markets.

     Natural gas prices in particular have historically been volatile. Consumers
routinely enters into contracts to offset its positions, such as hedging
exposure to the risks of demand, market effects of weather and changes in
commodity prices associated with its gas distribution business. These positions
are taken in conjunction with the GCR mechanism, which allows Consumers to
recover prudently incurred costs associated with those positions. However,
Consumers does not always hedge the entire exposure of its operations from
commodity price volatility. Furthermore, the ability to hedge exposure to
commodity price volatility depends on liquid commodity markets. As a result, to
the extent the commodity markets are illiquid, Consumers may not be able to
execute its risk management strategies, which could result in greater open
positions than preferred at a given time. To the extent that open positions
exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish CMS Energy's and
Consumers' financial results and financial position.

                       ITEM 1B