Item 1A.  Risk Factors
    
    You
should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment
decision.  The trading price of our common stock could decline due to
any of these risks, in which case you could lose all or part of your
investment.  You should also refer to the other information in this
filing, including our consolidated financial statements and related
notes.  The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we
currently believe may materially affect our Company.  Additional risks
and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial
also may become important factors that affect our Company.
    
    Risks
Related to Being a Regulated Entity
    
    Reduction
in Medicaid, SCHIP and SSI funding could substantially reduce our
profitability.
    
    Most of
our revenues come from Medicaid, SCHIP and SSI premiums.  The base
premium rate paid by each state differs, depending on a combination of factors
such as defined upper payment limits, a member’s health status, age, gender,
county or region, benefit mix and member eligibility
categories.  Future levels of Medicaid, SCHIP and SSI funding and
premium rates may be affected by continuing government efforts to contain
healthcare costs and may further be affected by state and federal budgetary
constraints.  Additionally, state and federal entities may make
changes to the design of their Medicaid programs resulting in the cancellation
or modification of these programs.
    
    For
example, in August 2007, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or
CMS, published a final rule regarding the estimation and recovery of
improper payments made under Medicaid and SCHIP.  This rule requires a
CMS contractor to sample selected states each year to estimate improper payments
in Medicaid and SCHIP and create national and state specific error
rates.  States must provide information to measure improper payments
in Medicaid and SCHIP for managed care and fee-for-service.  Each
state will be selected for review once every three years for each
program.  States are required to repay CMS the federal share of any
overpayments identified.
     
    On
February 8, 2006, President Bush signed the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 to
reduce the size of the federal deficit.  The Act reduces federal
spending by nearly $40 billion over 5 years, including a $5 billion reduction in
Medicaid.  The Act reduces spending by cutting Medicaid payments for
prescription drugs and gives states new power to reduce or reconfigure
benefits.  This law may also lead to lower Medicaid reimbursements in
some states.  The Bush administration’s budget proposal for fiscal
year 2009 proposes cutting Medicaid funding by $17.4 billion in funding
reductions over five years.  States also periodically consider
reducing or reallocating the amount of money they spend for Medicaid, SCHIP and
SSI.  In recent years, the majority of states have implemented
measures to restrict Medicaid, SCHIP and SSI costs and eligibility.
    
    Changes
to Medicaid, SCHIP and SSI programs could reduce the number of persons enrolled
in or eligible for these programs, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment
levels, or increase our administrative or healthcare costs under those programs,
all of which could have a negative impact on our business.  We believe
that reductions in Medicaid, SCHIP and SSI payments could substantially reduce
our profitability.  Further, our contracts with the states are subject
to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of
unavailability of state funds.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        16
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    If
SCHIP is not reauthorized or states face shortfalls, our business could
suffer.
    
    SCHIP was
initially authorized for a period of ten years through 2007.  In late
2007, Congress passed two separate SCHIP reauthorization bills that would have
expanded SCHIP coverage, however President Bush vetoed each of these
bills.  Since they could not come to agreement on long-term SCHIP
reauthorization terms, President Bush and Congress agreed to extend SCHIP
funding through March 31, 2009.  We cannot be certain that SCHIP will
be reauthorized when current funding expires in 2009, and if it is, what changes
might be made to the program following reauthorization.  There are
differing views as to what should be contained in an SCHIP reauthorization
bill.  It is unclear how and when these differences will be resolved
and therefore we cannot predict the impact that reauthorization will have on our
business, assuming SCHIP is reauthorized.
    
    States
receive matching funds from the federal government to pay for their SCHIP
programs, which matching funds have a per state annual cap.  Because
of funding caps, there is a risk that these states could experience shortfalls
in future years, which could have an impact on our ability to receive amounts
owed to us from states in which we have SCHIP contracts.
    
    If
any of our state contracts are terminated or are not renewed, our business will
suffer.
    
    We
provide managed care programs and selected services to individuals receiving
benefits under federal assistance programs, including Medicaid, SCHIP and
SSI.  We provide those healthcare services under contracts with
regulatory entities in the areas in which we operate.  Our contracts
with various states are generally intended to run for one or two years and may
be extended for one or two additional years if the state or its agent elects to
do so.  Our current contracts are set to expire between March 31, 2008
and December 31, 2010.  When our contracts expire, they may be opened
for bidding by competing healthcare providers.  There is no guarantee
that our contracts will be renewed or extended.  For example, on
August 25, 2006, we received notification from the Kansas Health Policy
Authority that FirstGuard Health Plan Kansas, Inc.’s contract with the State
would not be renewed or extended, and as a result, our contract ended on
December 31, 2006.  Further, our contracts with the states are subject
to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of
unavailability of state funds.  Our contracts could also be terminated
if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory
agencies.  For example, the Indiana contract under which we operate
can be terminated by the State without cause.  If any of our contracts
are terminated, not renewed, or renewed on less favorable terms, our business
will suffer, and our operating results may be materially affected.
    
    If
we are unable to participate in SCHIP programs, our growth rate may be
limited.
     
    SCHIP is
a federal initiative designed to provide coverage for low-income children not
otherwise covered by Medicaid or other insurance programs.  The
programs vary significantly from state to state.  Participation in
SCHIP programs is an important part of our growth strategy.  If states
do not allow us to participate or if we fail to win bids to participate, our
growth strategy may be materially and adversely affected.
     
    
    Changes
in government regulations designed to protect the financial interests of
providers and members rather than our investors could force us to change how we
operate and could harm our business.
    
    Our
business is extensively regulated by the states in which we operate and by the
federal government.  The applicable laws and regulations are subject
to frequent change and generally are intended to benefit and protect the
financial interests of health plan providers and members rather than
investors.  The enactment of new laws and rules or changes to existing
laws and rules or the interpretation of such laws and rules could, among other
things:
    
    •      force
us to restructure our relationships with providers within our
network;
    •      require
us to implement additional or different programs and systems;
    •      mandate
minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenues;
    •      restrict
revenue and enrollment growth;
    •      require
us to develop plans to guard against the financial insolvency of our
providers;
    •      increase
our healthcare and administrative costs;
    •      impose
additional capital and reserve requirements; and
    •      increase
or change our liability to members in the event of malpractice by our
providers.
     
    For
example, Congress has previously considered various forms of patient protection
legislation commonly known as the Patients’ Bill of Rights and such legislation
may be proposed again.  We cannot predict the impact of any such
legislation, if adopted, on our business.
    
    Regulations
may decrease the profitability of our health plans.
    
    Certain
states have enacted regulations which require us to maintain a minimum health
benefits ratio, or establish limits on our profitability.  Other
states require us to meet certain performance and quality metrics in order to
receive our full contractual revenue.  In certain circumstances, our
plans may be required to pay a rebate to the state in the event profits exceed
established levels.  These regulatory requirements, changes in these
requirements or the adoption of similar requirements by our other regulators may
limit our ability to increase our overall profits as a percentage of
revenues.  Certain states, including but not limited to Georgia,
Indiana, New Jersey and Texas have implemented prompt-payment laws and are
enforcing penalty provisions for failure to pay claims in a timely
manner.  Failure to meet these requirements can result in financial
fines and penalties.  In addition, states may attempt to reduce their
contract premium rates if regulators perceive our health benefits ratio as too
low.  Any of these regulatory actions could harm our operating
results.  Certain states also impose marketing restrictions on us
which may constrain our membership growth and our ability to increase our
revenues.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        17
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    We
face periodic reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with state
government agencies, and these audits could have adverse findings, which may
negatively impact our business.
    
    We
contract with various state governmental agencies to provide managed healthcare
services.  Pursuant to these contracts, we are subject to various
reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts
and applicable laws and regulations.  Any adverse review, audit or
investigation could result in:
    
    •      refunding
of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our contracts;
    •      imposition
of fines, penalties and other sanctions on us;
    •      loss
of our right to participate in various markets;
    •      increased
difficulty in selling our products and services; and
    •      loss
of one or more of our licenses.
    
    Failure
to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal
penalties.
    
    Federal
and state governments have enacted fraud and abuse laws and other laws to
protect patients’ privacy and access to healthcare.  In some states,
we may be subject to regulation by more than one governmental authority, which
may impose overlapping or inconsistent regulations.  Violation of
these and other laws or regulations governing our operations or the operations
of our providers could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties,
the cancellation of our contracts to provide services, the suspension or
revocation of our licenses or our exclusion from participating in the Medicaid,
SCHIP and SSI programs.  If we were to become subject to these
penalties or exclusions as the result of our actions or omissions or our
inability to monitor the compliance of our providers, it would negatively affect
our ability to operate our business.
    
    The
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, broadened
the scope of fraud and abuse laws applicable to healthcare
companies.  HIPAA created civil penalties for, among other things,
billing for medically unnecessary goods or services.  HIPAA
established new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including
civil and, in some instances, criminal penalties for failure to comply with
specific standards relating to the privacy, security and electronic transmission
of most individually identifiable health information.  It is possible
that Congress may enact additional legislation in the future to increase
penalties and to create a private right of action under HIPAA, which could
entitle patients to seek monetary damages for violations of the privacy
rules.
     
    We
may incur significant costs as a result of compliance with government
regulations, and our management will be required to devote time to
compliance.
    
    Many
aspects of our business are affected by government laws and
regulations.  The issuance of new regulations, or judicial or
regulatory guidance regarding existing regulations, could require changes to
many of the procedures we currently use to conduct our business, which may lead
to additional costs that we have not yet identified.  We do not know
whether, or the extent to which, we will be able to recover from the states our
costs of complying with these new regulations.  The costs of any such
future compliance efforts could have a material adverse effect on our
business.  We have already expended significant time, effort and
financial resources to comply with the privacy and security requirements of
HIPAA.  We cannot predict whether states will enact stricter laws
governing the privacy and security of electronic health
information.  If any new requirements are enacted at the state or
federal level, compliance would likely require additional expenditures and
management time.
    
    In
addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently
implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, have
imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in
corporate governance practices.  Our management and other personnel
will continue to devote time to these compliance initiatives.
    
    The
Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective
internal control over financial reporting.  In particular, we must
perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over
financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our
internal controls over our financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our
independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our
internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material
weaknesses.  Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur
substantial accounting expense and expend significant management
efforts.  Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements
of Section 404, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm
identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that
are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could
decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, SEC
or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and
management resources.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        18
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Changes
in healthcare law and benefits may reduce our profitability.
    
    Numerous
proposals relating to changes in healthcare law have been introduced, some of
which have been passed by Congress and the states in which we operate or may
operate in the future.  Changes in applicable laws and regulations are
continually being considered, and interpretations of existing laws and rules may
also change from time to time.  We are unable to predict what
regulatory changes may occur or what effect any particular change may have on
our business.  For example, these changes could reduce the number of
persons enrolled or eligible to enroll in Medicaid, reduce the reimbursement or
payment levels for medical services or reduce benefits included in Medicaid
coverage.  We are also unable to predict whether new laws or proposals
will favor or hinder the growth of managed healthcare in
general.  Legislation or regulations that require us to change our
current manner of operation, benefits provided or our contract arrangements may
seriously harm our operations and financial results.
    
    For
example, in August 2007 CMS issued guidance that imposes new requirements on
states that cover children in families with incomes above 250% of the federal
poverty level.  Under these new requirements, applicable states must
provide assurances to CMS that the state has enrolled at least 95% of the
Medicaid and SCHIP eligible children in the state who are in families with
incomes below 200% of the federal poverty level in Medicaid or SCHIP and that
the number of children insured through private employers has not decreased by
more than two percentage points over the prior five year
period.  Three states in which we have SCHIP contracts, Georgia, New
Jersey and Wisconsin, are subject to these new regulations.  If they
are unable to meet these new requirements, they will be unable to continue to
cover children in families with incomes above 250% of the federal poverty level,
which would likely decrease our membership in such states.  Many
states object to these new requirements as unduly burdensome and likely to
result in a decrease in the number of children covered by SCHIP, and some
states, including New Jersey, are pursuing legal challenges against CMS in
relation to these new requirements.  CMS expects states to comply with
the new requirements within 12 months of the issuance of the
guidance.  We cannot predict whether legal challenges to the new
policy will be successful or whether the reauthorized version of SCHIP will
expressly address these new requirements.  We cannot predict the
impact these requirements will have on our revenue if changes are implemented in
states in which we serve SCHIP beneficiaries.
      
    If
a state fails to renew a required federal waiver for mandated Medicaid
enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in
that state will likely decrease.
     
    States
may administer Medicaid managed care programs pursuant to demonstration programs
or required waivers of federal Medicaid standards.  Waivers and
demonstration programs are generally approved for two year periods and can be
renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies.  We have no control
over this renewal process.  If a state does not renew such a waiver or
demonstration program or the Federal government denies a state’s application for
renewal, membership in our health plan in the state could decrease and our
business could suffer.
     
    Changes
in federal funding mechanisms may reduce our profitability.
    
    The Bush
administration previously proposed a major long-term change in the way Medicaid
and SCHIP are funded.  The proposal, if adopted, would allow states to
elect to receive, instead of federal matching funds, combined Medicaid-SCHIP
“allotments” for acute and long-term healthcare for low-income, uninsured
persons.  Participating states would be given flexibility in designing
their own health insurance programs, subject to federally-mandated minimum
coverage requirements.  It is uncertain whether this proposal will be
enacted.  Accordingly, it is unknown whether or how many states might
elect to participate or how their participation may affect the net amount of
funding available for Medicaid and SCHIP programs.  If such a proposal
is adopted and decreases the number of persons enrolled in Medicaid or SCHIP in
the states in which we operate or reduces the volume of healthcare services
provided, our growth, operations and financial performance could be adversely
affected.
    
    On May
29, 2007, CMS issued a final rule that would reduce states’ use of
intergovernmental transfers for the states’ share of Medicaid program
funding.  By restricting the use of intergovernmental transfers, this
rule may restrict some states’ funding for Medicaid, which could adversely
affect our growth, operations and financial performance.  On May 25,
2007, President Bush signed an Iraq war supplemental spending bill that includes
a one-year moratorium on the effectiveness of the final rule.  We
cannot predict whether the rule will ever be implemented and if it is, what
impact it will have on our business.
    
    Recent
legislative changes in the Medicare program may also affect our
business.  For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement
and Modernization Act of 2003 revised cost-sharing requirements for some
beneficiaries and requires states to reimburse the federal Medicare program for
costs of prescription drug coverage provided to beneficiaries who are enrolled
simultaneously in both the Medicaid and Medicare programs.  In its
fiscal year 2009 budget proposal, the Bush administration has also proposed to
further reduce total federal funding for the Medicaid program by $17.4 billion
over the next five years. These changes may reduce the availability of funding
for some states’ Medicaid programs, which could adversely affect our growth,
operations and financial performance.  In addition, the new Medicare
prescription drug benefit is interrupting the distribution of prescription drugs
to many beneficiaries simultaneously enrolled in both Medicaid and Medicare,
prompting several states to pay for prescription drugs on an unbudgeted,
emergency basis without any assurance of receiving reimbursement from the
federal Medicaid program.  These expenses may cause some states to
divert funds originally intended for other Medicaid services which could
adversely affect our growth, operations and financial performance.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        19
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    If
state regulatory agencies require a statutory capital level higher than the
state regulations, we may be required to make additional capital
contributions.
    
    Our
operations are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiaries, which include
health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, and managed care organizations, or
MCOs.  HMOs and MCOs are subject to state regulations that, among
other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, as
defined by each state.  Additionally, state regulatory agencies may
require, at their discretion, individual HMOs to maintain statutory capital
levels higher than the state regulations.  If this were to occur to
one of our subsidiaries, we may be required to make additional capital
contributions to the affected subsidiary.  Any additional capital
contribution made to one of the affected subsidiaries could have a material
adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to grow.
    
    If
state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our
subsidiaries to us, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our business
strategy.
    
    We
principally operate through our health plan subsidiaries.  If funds
normally available to us become limited in the future, we may need to rely on
dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries to fund our
operations.  These subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit
the amount of dividends and distributions that can be paid to us without prior
approval of, or notification to, state regulators.  If these
regulators were to deny our subsidiaries’ request to pay dividends to us, the
funds available to us would be limited, which could harm our ability to
implement our business strategy.
     
    Risks
Related to Our Business
    
    Ineffectiveness
of state-operated systems and subcontractors could adversely affect our
business.
    
    Our
health plans rely on other state-operated systems or sub-contractors to qualify,
solicit, educate and assign eligible clients into the health
plans.  The effectiveness of these state operations and
sub-contractors can have a material effect on a health plan’s enrollment in a
particular month or over an extended period.  When a state implements
new programs to determine eligibility, new processes to assign or enroll
eligible clients into health plans, or chooses new contractors, there is an
increased potential for an unanticipated impact on the overall number of members
assigned into the health plans.
    
    Failure
to accurately predict our medical expenses could negatively affect our reported
results.
    
    Our
medical expenses include estimates of medical expenses incurred but not yet
reported, or IBNR.  We estimate our IBNR medical expenses monthly
based on a number of factors.  Adjustments, if necessary, are made to
medical expenses in the period during which the actual claim costs are
ultimately determined or when criteria used to estimate IBNR
change.  We cannot be sure that our IBNR estimates are adequate or
that adjustments to those estimates will not harm our results of
operations.  For example, in the three months ended June 30, 2006 we
adjusted our IBNR by $9.7 million for adverse medical cost development from the
first quarter of 2006.  In addition, when we commence operations in a
new state or region, we have limited information with which to estimate our
medical claims liabilities.  For example, we commenced operations in
the Atlanta and Central regions of Georgia on June 1, 2006 and the Southwest
region of Georgia on September 1, 2006 and have based our estimates on state
provided historical actuarial data and limited actual incurred and received
data.  From time to time in the past, our actual results have varied
from our estimates, particularly in times of significant changes in the number
of our members.  Our failure to estimate IBNR accurately may also
affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further harming our
results.
    
    Receipt
of inadequate or significantly delayed premiums would negatively affect our
revenues and profitability.
    
    Our
premium revenues consist of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental
payments for other services such as maternity deliveries.  These
premiums are fixed by contract, and we are obligated during the contract periods
to provide healthcare services as established by the state
governments.  We use a large portion of our revenues to pay the costs
of healthcare services delivered to our members.  If premiums do not
increase when expenses related to medical services rise, our earnings will be
affected negatively.  In addition, our actual medical services costs
may exceed our estimates, which would cause our health benefits ratio, or our
expenses related to medical services as a percentage of premium revenue, to
increase and our profits to decline.  In addition, it is possible for
a state to increase the rates payable to the hospitals without granting a
corresponding increase in premiums to us.  If this were to occur in
one or more of the states in which we operate, our profitability would be
harmed.  In addition, if there is a significant delay in our receipt
of premiums to offset previously incurred health benefits costs, our earnings
could be negatively impacted.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        20
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Failure
to effectively manage our medical costs or related administrative costs would
reduce our profitability.
    
    Our
profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and
effectively manage expenses related to health benefits.  We have less
control over the costs related to medical services than we do over our general
and administrative expenses.  Because of the narrow margins of our
health plan business, relatively small changes in our health benefits ratio can
create significant changes in our financial results.  Changes in
healthcare regulations and practices, the level of use of healthcare services,
hospital costs, pharmaceutical costs, major epidemics, new medical technologies
and other external factors, including general economic conditions such as
inflation levels, are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to predict
and effectively control the costs of providing health benefits.  We
may not be able to manage costs effectively in the future.  If our
costs related to health benefits increase, our profits could be reduced or we
may not remain profitable.
     
    Difficulties
in executing our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our
business.
    
    Historically,
the acquisition of Medicaid and specialty services businesses, contract rights
and related assets of other health plans both in our existing service areas and
in new markets has accounted for a significant amount of our
growth.  Many of the other potential purchasers have greater financial
resources than we have.  In addition, many of the sellers are
interested either in (a) selling, along with their Medicaid assets, other assets
in which we do not have an interest or (b) selling their companies, including
their liabilities, as opposed to the assets of their ongoing
businesses.
    
    We
generally are required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state
agencies when making acquisitions.  In the case of an acquisition of a
business located in a state in which we do not currently operate, we would be
required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that
state.  In addition, even if we already operate in a state in which we
acquire a new business, we would be required to obtain additional regulatory
approval if the acquisition would result in our operating in an area of the
state in which we did not operate previously, and we could be required to
renegotiate provider contracts of the acquired business.  We cannot
assure you that we would be able to comply with these regulatory requirements
for an acquisition in a timely manner, or at all.  In deciding whether
to approve a proposed acquisition, state regulators may consider a number of
factors outside our control, including giving preference to competing offers
made by locally owned entities or by not-for-profit entities.
    
    We also
may be unable to obtain sufficient additional capital resources for future
acquisitions.  If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition
strategy, our future growth will suffer and our results of operations could be
harmed.
    
    Execution
of our growth strategy may increase costs or liabilities, or create disruptions
in our business.
    
    We pursue
acquisitions of other companies or businesses from time to
time.  Although we review the records of companies or businesses we
plan to acquire, even an in-depth review of records may not reveal existing or
potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to
assess fully its capabilities and deficiencies.  As a result, we may
assume unanticipated liabilities or adverse operating conditions, or an
acquisition may not perform as well as expected.  We face the risk
that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures or
indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses, or the capital expenditures
needed to develop such businesses.  We also face the risk that we will
not be able to integrate acquisitions into our existing operations effectively
without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial
problems.  Integration may be hindered by, among other things,
differing procedures, including internal controls, business practices and
technology systems.  We may need to divert more management resources
to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue
other profitable activities.
    
    In
addition to the difficulties we may face in identifying and consummating
acquisitions, we will also be required to integrate and consolidate any acquired
business or assets with our existing operations.  This may include the
integration of:
    
    •      additional
personnel who are not familiar with our operations and corporate
culture;
    •      provider
networks that may operate on different terms than our existing
networks;
    •      existing
members, who may decide to switch to another healthcare plan; and
    •      disparate
administrative, accounting and finance, and information systems.
    
    Additionally,
our growth strategy includes start-up operations in new markets or new products
in existing markets.  We may incur significant expenses prior to
commencement of operations and the receipt of revenue.  As a result,
these start-up operations may decrease our profitability.  In the
event we pursue any opportunity to diversify our business internationally, we
would become subject to additional risks, including, but not limited to,
political risk, an unfamiliar regulatory regime, currency exchange risk and
exchange controls, cultural and language differences, foreign tax issues, and
different labor laws and practices.
    
    Accordingly,
we may be unable to identify, consummate and integrate future acquisitions or
start-up operations successfully or operate acquired or new businesses
profitably.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        21
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    If
competing managed care programs are unwilling to purchase specialty services
from us, we may not be able to successfully implement our strategy of
diversifying our business lines.
    
    We are
seeking to diversify our business lines into areas that complement our Medicaid
business in order to grow our revenue stream and balance our dependence on
Medicaid risk reimbursement.  In order to diversify our business, we
must succeed in selling the services of our specialty subsidiaries not only to
our managed care plans, but to programs operated by
third-parties.  Some of these third-party programs may compete with us
in some markets, and they therefore may be unwilling to purchase specialty
services from us.  In any event, the offering of these services will
require marketing activities that differ significantly from the manner in which
we seek to increase revenues from our Medicaid programs.  Our
inability to market specialty services to other programs may impair our ability
to execute our business strategy.
     
    Failure
to achieve timely profitability in any business would negatively affect our
results of operations.
    
    Start-up
costs associated with a new business can be substantial.  For example,
in order to obtain a certificate of authority in most jurisdictions, we must
first establish a provider network, have systems in place and demonstrate our
ability to obtain a state contract and process claims.  If we were
unsuccessful in obtaining the necessary license, winning the bid to provide
service or attracting members in numbers sufficient to cover our costs, any new
business of ours would fail.  We also could be obligated by the state
to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient
revenue to cover our ongoing costs or recover start-up costs.  The
expenses associated with starting up a new business could have a significant
impact on our results of operations if we are unable to achieve profitable
operations in a timely fashion.
    
    We
derive a majority of our premium revenues from operations in a small number of
states, and our operating results would be materially affected by a decrease in
premium revenues or profitability in any one of those states.
    
    Operations
in a few states have accounted for most of our premium revenues to
date.  For example, our Medicaid contract with Kansas, which
terminated December 31, 2006, together with our Medicaid contract with Missouri
accounted for $317.0 million in revenue for the year ended December 31,
2006.  If we were unable to continue to operate in any of our current
states or if our current operations in any portion of one of those states were
significantly curtailed, our revenues could decrease materially.  Our
reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and
profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly depending on legislative or
other governmental or regulatory actions and decisions, economic conditions and
similar factors in those states.  Our inability to continue to operate
in any of the states in which we operate would harm our business.
     
    Competition
may limit our ability to increase penetration of the markets that we
serve.
    
    We
compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider
network, benefits provided and quality of service.  We compete with
numerous types of competitors, including other health plans and traditional
state Medicaid programs that reimburse providers as care is
provided.  Subject to limited exceptions by federally approved state
applications, the federal government requires that there be choices for Medicaid
recipients among managed care programs.  Voluntary programs and
mandated competition may limit our ability to increase our market
share.
    
    Some of
the health plans with which we compete have greater financial and other
resources and offer a broader scope of products than we do.  In
addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the
managed care industry, as well as in industries that act as suppliers to us,
such as the hospital, physician, pharmaceutical, medical device and health
information systems businesses.  To the extent that competition
intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase
members and providers, or maintain or increase our revenue growth, pricing
flexibility and control over medical cost trends may be adversely
affected.
    
    In
addition, in order to increase our membership in the markets we currently serve,
we believe that we must continue to develop and implement community-specific
products, alliances with key providers and localized outreach and educational
programs.  If we are unable to develop and implement these
initiatives, or if our competitors are more successful than we are in doing so,
we may not be able to further penetrate our existing markets.
     
    If
we are unable to maintain relationships with our provider networks, our
profitability may be harmed.
    
    Our
profitability depends, in large part, upon our ability to contract favorably
with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers.  Our
provider arrangements with our primary care physicians, specialists and
hospitals generally may be cancelled by either party without cause upon 90 to
120 days prior written notice.  We cannot assure you that we will be
able to continue to renew our existing contracts or enter into new contracts
enabling us to service our members profitably.
    
    From time
to time providers assert or threaten to assert claims seeking to terminate
noncancelable agreements due to alleged actions or inactions by
us.  Even if these allegations represent attempts to avoid or
renegotiate contractual terms that have become economically disadvantageous to
the providers, it is possible that in the future a provider may pursue such a
claim successfully.  In addition, we are aware that other managed care
organizations have been subject to class action suits by physicians with respect
to claim payment procedures, and we may be subject to similar
claims.  Regardless of whether any claims brought against us are
successful or have merit, they will still be time-consuming and costly and could
distract our management’s attention.  As a result, we may incur
significant expenses and may be unable to operate our business
effectively.
    
    We will
be required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new
markets.  We may be unable to enter into agreements with providers in
new markets on a timely basis or under favorable terms.  If we are
unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider
contracts timely or on favorable terms, our profitability will be
harmed.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        22
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    We
may be unable to attract and retain key personnel.
    
    We are
highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to
operate and expand our business.  If we lose one or more members of
our senior management team, including our chief executive officer, Michael F.
Neidorff, who has been instrumental in developing our business strategy and
forging our business relationships, our business and operating results could be
harmed.  Our ability to replace any departed members of our senior
management or other key employees may be difficult and may take an extended
period of time because of the limited number of individuals in the Medicaid
managed care and specialty services industry with the breadth of skills and
experience required to operate and successfully expand a business such as
ours.  Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we
may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these personnel.
    
    Negative
publicity regarding the managed care industry may harm our business and
operating results.
    
    The
managed care industry has received negative publicity.  This publicity
has led to increased legislation, regulation, review of industry practices and
private litigation in the commercial sector.  These factors may
adversely affect our ability to market our services, require us to change our
services, and increase the regulatory burdens under which we
operate.  Any of these factors may increase the costs of doing
business and adversely affect our operating results.
    
    Claims
relating to medical malpractice could cause us to incur significant
expenses.
    
    Our
providers and employees involved in medical care decisions may be subject to
medical malpractice claims.  In addition, some states, including
Texas, have adopted legislation that permits managed care organizations to be
held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage
determinations.  Claims of this nature, if successful, could result in
substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the
limits of any applicable insurance coverage.  Therefore, successful
malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers or our employees
could adversely affect our financial condition and
profitability.  Even if any claims brought against us are unsuccessful
or without merit, they would still be time consuming and costly and could
distract our management’s attention.  As a result, we may incur
significant expenses and may be unable to operate our business
effectively.
    
    Loss
of providers due to increased insurance costs could adversely affect our
business.
    
    Our
providers routinely purchase insurance to help protect themselves against
medical malpractice claims.  In recent years, the costs of maintaining
commercially reasonable levels of such insurance have increased dramatically,
and these costs are expected to increase to even greater levels in the
future.  As a result of the level of these costs, providers may decide
to leave the practice of medicine or to limit their practice to certain areas,
which may not address the needs of Medicaid participants.  We rely on
retaining a sufficient number of providers in order to maintain a certain level
of service.  If a significant number of our providers exit our
provider networks or the practice of medicine generally, we may be unable to
replace them in a timely manner, if at all, and our business could be adversely
affected.
    
    Growth
in the number of Medicaid-eligible persons during economic downturns could cause
our operating results to suffer if state and federal budgets decrease or do not
increase.
    
    Less
favorable economic conditions may cause our membership to increase as more
people become eligible to receive Medicaid benefits.  During such
economic downturns, however, state and federal budgets could decrease, causing
states to attempt to cut healthcare programs, benefits and rates.  We
cannot predict the impact of changes in the United States economic environment
or other economic or political events, including acts of terrorism or related
military action, on federal or state funding of healthcare programs or on the
size of the population eligible for the programs we operate.  If
federal funding decreases or remains unchanged while our membership increases,
our results of operations will suffer.
     
    Growth
in the number of Medicaid-eligible persons may be countercyclical, which could
cause our operating results to suffer when general economic conditions are
improving.
    
    Historically,
the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits has increased more
rapidly during periods of rising unemployment, corresponding to less favorable
general economic conditions.  Conversely, this number may grow more
slowly or even decline if economic conditions improve.  Therefore,
improvements in general economic conditions may cause our membership levels to
decrease, thereby causing our operating results to suffer, which could lead to
decreases in our stock price during periods in which stock prices in general are
increasing.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        23
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    If
we are unable to integrate and manage our information systems effectively, our
operations could be disrupted.
    
    Our
operations depend significantly on effective information systems.  The
information gathered and processed by our information systems assists us in,
among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing
provider claims, and providing data to our regulators.  Our providers
also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims
status and other information.
    
    Our
information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading
and enhancement to meet our operational needs and regulatory
requirements.  Moreover, our acquisition activity requires frequent
transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information
systems.  We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’
capabilities.  If we experience difficulties with the transition to or
from information systems or are unable to properly maintain or expand our
information systems, we could suffer, among other things, from operational
disruptions, loss of existing members and difficulty in attracting new members,
regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses.  In
addition, our ability to integrate and manage our information systems may be
impaired as the result of events outside our control, including acts of nature,
such as earthquakes or fires, or acts of terrorists.
    
    We
rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by state
governments.  Inaccuracies in those lists would negatively affect our
results of operations.
    
    Premium
payments to us are based upon eligibility lists produced by state
governments.  From time to time, states require us to reimburse them
for premiums paid to us based on an eligibility list that a state later
discovers contains individuals who are not in fact eligible for a government
sponsored program or are eligible for a different premium category or a
different program.  Alternatively, a state could fail to pay us for
members for whom we are entitled to payment.  Our results of
operations would be adversely affected as a result of such reimbursement to the
state if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup
such payments from the providers.
     
    We
may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance.
    
    We
maintain liability insurance, subject to limits and deductibles, for claims that
could result from providing or failing to provide managed care and related
services.  These claims could be substantial.  We believe
that our present insurance coverage and reserves are adequate to cover currently
estimated exposures.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to
obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future at acceptable costs or that we
will not incur significant liabilities in excess of policy limits.
    
    From
time to time, we may become involved in costly and time-consuming litigation and
other regulatory proceedings, which require significant attention from our
management.
    
    We are a
defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our
business.  Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and
regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any
such proceedings.  An unfavorable outcome could have a material
adverse impact on our business and operating results.  In addition,
regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such
proceedings are costly and require significant attention from our
management.  For example, in 2006, we were named in two securities
class action lawsuits.  The status of these lawsuits is discussed
below under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”  In addition, we may in the
future be the target of similar litigation.  As with other litigation,
securities litigation could be costly and time consuming, require significant
attention from our management and could harm our business and operating
results.
    
    Item 1B