Item 1A
“Risk Factors” of Part I of this filing contains a further discussion of these
and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ from
expectations.  We disclaim any current intention or obligation to
update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.  Due to these important
factors and risks, we cannot give assurances with respect to our future premium
levels or our ability to control our future medical costs.
     
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        3
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    PART
I
     
    Item 1.  Business
     
    OVERVIEW
    
    We are a
multi-line healthcare enterprise operating in two segments: Medicaid Managed
Care and Specialty Services.  Our Medicaid Managed Care segment
provides Medicaid and Medicaid-related health plan coverage to individuals
through government subsidized programs, including Medicaid, the State Children’s
Health Insurance Program, or SCHIP, Foster Care, Medicare Special Needs Plans
and the Supplemental Security Income Program, also known as the Aged, Blind or
Disabled Program, or collectively ABD.  Medicaid currently accounts
for 73% of our membership, while SCHIP (also including Foster Care) and ABD
(also including Medicare) account for 22% and 5%, respectively.  Our
Specialty Services segment provides specialty services, including behavioral
health, individual health insurance, life and health management, long-term care
programs, managed vision, nurse triage, and pharmacy benefits management to
state programs, healthcare organizations, employer groups and other commercial
organizations, as well as to our own subsidiaries.  Our Specialty
Services segment also provides a full range of healthcare solutions for the
rising number of uninsured Americans.
    
    During
2008, we announced our intention to sell certain assets of University Health
Plans, Inc.  This pending sale is discussed in detail under the
caption “Discontinued Operations” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”  Accordingly, our New Jersey health plan operations are
presented as discontinued operations for all periods in our consolidated
financial statements beginning with this Annual Report on Form
10-K.  The following discussion and analysis is presented primarily in
the context of continuing operations unless otherwise identified.  For
the year ended December 31, 2008, our revenues, total cash flow from operations,
and net earnings were $3.4 billion, $222.0 million and $84.2 million,
respectively.
     
    Our
Medicaid Managed Care segment membership totaled approximately 1.2 million as of
December 31, 2008, while our Specialty Services segment external membership
totaled 163,100.  We currently have health plan subsidiaries offering
healthcare services in Arizona, Georgia, Indiana, Ohio, South Carolina, Texas
and Wisconsin, as well as New Jersey.  Additionally, effective in July
2007, we acquired a minority interest in Access Health Solutions, LLC, or
Access, which provides managed care on a non-risk basis for Medicaid recipients
in Florida.  In February 2009, we began operations in Florida through
our wholly-owned subsidiary, Sunshine State Health Plan, Inc.  We
provide member-focused services through locally based staff by assisting in
accessing care, coordinating referrals to related health and social services and
addressing member concerns and questions.  We also provide education
and outreach programs to inform and assist members in accessing quality,
appropriate healthcare services.
     
    We
believe our local approach to managing our health plans, including provider and
member services, enables us to provide accessible, quality, culturally-sensitive
healthcare coverage to our communities.  Our health management,
educational and other initiatives are designed to help members best utilize the
healthcare system to ensure they receive appropriate, medically necessary
services and effective management of routine, severe and chronic health
problems, resulting in better health outcomes.  We combine our
decentralized local approach for care with a centralized infrastructure of
support functions such as finance, information systems and claims
processing.
     
    Our
initial health plan commenced operations in Wisconsin in 1984.  We
were organized in Wisconsin in 1993 as a holding company for our initial health
plan and reincorporated in Delaware in 2001.  Our corporate office is
located at 7711 Carondelet Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri 63105, and our telephone
number is (314) 725-4477.  Our stock is publicly traded on the New
York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “CNC.”
     
    INDUSTRY
    
    We
provide our services to organizations and individuals primarily through
Medicaid, SCHIP, Foster Care and ABD programs.  The federal Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, estimated the total Medicaid market
was approximately $311 billion in 2006, and estimate the market will grow to
$720 billion by 2017.  According to the most recent information
provided by the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, Medicaid
spending increased by 5.3% in fiscal 2008 and states appropriated an increase of
5.8% for Medicaid in fiscal 2009 budgets.
     
    Established
in 1965, Medicaid is the largest publicly funded program in the United States,
and provides health insurance to low-income families and individuals with
disabilities.  Authorized by Title XIX of the Social Security Act,
Medicaid is an entitlement program funded jointly by the federal and state
governments and administered by the states.  The majority of funding
is provided at the federal level.  Each state establishes its own
eligibility standards, benefit packages, payment rates and program
administration within federal standards.  As a result, there are 56
Medicaid programs— one for each U.S. state, each U.S. territory and the District
of Columbia.  Many states have selected Medicaid managed care as a
means of delivering quality healthcare and controlling costs, including states
that automatically enroll Medicaid recipients who don’t select a health
plan.  We refer to these states as mandated managed care
states.  Eligibility is based on a combination of household income and
assets, often determined by an income level relative to the federal poverty
level.  Historically, children have represented the largest
eligibility group.
     
    Established
in 1972, and authorized by Title XVI of the Social Security Act, ABD covers
low-income persons with chronic physical disabilities or behavioral health
impairments.  ABD beneficiaries represent a growing portion of all
Medicaid recipients.  In addition, ABD recipients typically utilize
more services because of their critical health issues.
     
    The
Balanced Budget Act of 1997 created SCHIP to help states expand coverage
primarily to children whose families earned too much to qualify for Medicaid,
yet not enough to afford private health insurance.  Some states
include the parents of these children in their SCHIP programs.  SCHIP
is the single largest expansion of health insurance coverage for children since
the enactment of Medicaid.  Costs related to the largest eligibility
group, children, are primarily composed of pediatrics and family
care.  These costs tend to be more predictable than other healthcare
issues which predominantly affect the adult population.
     
    A portion
of Medicaid beneficiaries are dual eligibles, low-income seniors and people with
disabilities who are enrolled in both Medicaid and
Medicare.  According to CMS, there were approximately seven million
dual eligible enrollees in 2006.  These dual eligibles may receive
assistance from Medicaid for Medicaid benefits, such as nursing home care and/or
assistance with Medicare premiums and cost sharing.  Dual eligibles
also use more services due to their tendency to have more chronic health
issues.  We serve dual eligibles through our ABD and long-term care
programs, and beginning in 2008, through Special Needs Plans.
     
    While
Medicaid programs have directed funds to many individuals who cannot afford or
otherwise maintain health insurance coverage, they did not initially address the
inefficient and costly manner in which the Medicaid population tends to access
healthcare.  Medicaid recipients in non-managed care programs
typically have not sought preventive care or routine treatment for chronic
conditions, such as asthma and diabetes.  Rather, they have sought
healthcare in hospital emergency rooms, which tends to be more
expensive.  As a result, many states have found that the costs of
providing Medicaid benefits have increased while the medical outcomes for the
recipients remained unsatisfactory.
     
    Since the
early 1980s, increasing healthcare costs, combined with significant growth in
the number of Medicaid recipients, have led many states to establish Medicaid
managed care initiatives.  Additionally, a number of states are
designing programs to cover the rising number of uninsured
Americans.  The US Census Bureau estimated there were 45.7 million
Americans in 2007 that lacked health insurance.  Continued pressure on
states’ Medicaid budgets should cause public policy to recognize the value of
managed care as a means of delivering quality healthcare and effectively
controlling costs.  A growing number of states have mandated that
their Medicaid recipients enroll in managed care plans.  Other states
are considering moving to a mandated managed care approach.  As a
result, a significant market opportunity exists for managed care organizations
with operations and programs focused on the distinct socio-economic, cultural
and healthcare needs of the uninsured population and the Medicaid, SCHIP, Foster
Care and ABD populations.  We believe our approach and strategy enable
us to be a growing participant in this market.
    
    OUR
COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS
    
    Our
multi-line managed care approach is based on the following key
attributes:
     
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ  
            
            
              Strong Historic Operating
      Performance.  We have increased revenues as we have grown
      in existing markets, expanded into new markets and broadened our product
      offerings.  We entered the Wisconsin market in 1984, the Indiana
      market in 1995, the Texas market in 1999, the Ohio market in 2004, the
      Georgia market in 2006, and the South Carolina market in
      2007.  We have increased our membership through participation in
      new programs in existing states.  For example, in 2008, we began
      operations in the Texas Foster Care program and began serving Acute Care
      members in the Yavapai county of Arizona.  We have also
      increased membership by acquiring Medicaid businesses, contracts and other
      related assets from competitors in existing markets, most recently in
      South Carolina in 2007.  Our Medicaid Managed Care membership
      totaled approximately 1.2 million as of December 31, 2008.  For
      the year ended December 31, 2008, we had revenues of $3.4 billion,
      representing a 40% Compound Annual Growth Rate, or CAGR, since the year
      ended December 31, 2004.  We generated total cash flow from
      operations of $222.0 million and net earnings of $84.2 million for the
      year ended December 31, 2008.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              Medicaid
      Expertise.  Over the last 20 years, we have strived to
      develop a specialized Medicaid expertise that has helped us establish and
      maintain relationships with members, providers and state
      governments.  We have implemented programs developed to achieve
      savings for state governments and improve medical outcomes for members by
      reducing inappropriate emergency room use, inpatient days and high cost
      interventions, as well as by managing care of chronic
      illnesses.  Our experience in working with state regulators
      helps us implement and deliver programs and services efficiently and
      affords us opportunities to provide input regarding Medicaid industry
      practices and policies in the states in which we operate.  We
      work with state agencies on redefining benefits, eligibility requirements
      and provider fee schedules in order to maximize the number of uninsured
      individuals covered through Medicaid, SCHIP, Foster Care and ABD and
      expand these types of benefits offered.  Our approach is to
      accomplish this while maintaining adequate levels of provider compensation
      and protecting our profitability.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        4
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Diversified Business
      Lines.  We continue to broaden our service offerings to
      address areas that we believe have been traditionally underserved by
      Medicaid managed care organizations.  In addition to our
      Medicaid and Medicaid-related managed care services, our service offerings
      include behavioral health, individual health insurance, life and health
      management, long-term care programs, managed vision, nurse triage and
      pharmacy benefits management.  Through the utilization of a
      multi-business line approach, we are able to diversify our revenues and
      help control our medical costs.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Localized Approach with
      Centralized Support Infrastructure.  We take a localized
      approach to managing our subsidiaries, including provider and member
      services.  This approach enables us to facilitate access by our
      members to high quality, culturally sensitive healthcare
      services.  Our systems and procedures have been designed to
      address these community-specific challenges through outreach, education,
      transportation and other member support activities.  For
      example, our community outreach programs work with our members and their
      communities to promote health and self-improvement through employment and
      education on how best to access care.  We complement this
      localized approach with a centralized infrastructure of support functions
      such as finance, information systems and claims processing, which allows
      us to minimize general and administrative expenses and to integrate and
      realize synergies from acquisitions.  We believe this combined
      approach allows us to efficiently integrate new business opportunities in
      both Medicaid and specialty services while maintaining our local
      accountability and improved access.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              Specialized and Scalable
      Systems and Technology.  Through our specialized
      information systems, we work to strengthen relationships with providers
      and states which help us grow our membership base.  We continue
      to develop our specialized information systems which allow us to support
      our core processing functions under a set of integrated databases,
      designed to be both replicable and scalable.  Physicians can use
      claims, utilization and membership data to manage their practices more
      efficiently, and they also benefit from our timely
      payments.  State agencies can use data from our information
      systems to demonstrate that their Medicaid populations receive quality
      healthcare in an efficient manner.  These systems also help
      identify needs for new healthcare and specialty programs.  We
      have the ability to leverage our platform for one state configuration into
      new states or for health plan acquisitions.  Our ability to
      access data and translate it into meaningful information is essential to
      operating across a multi-state service area in a cost-effective
      manner.
            
          
      
    
     
    OUR
BUSINESS STRATEGY
     
    Our
objective is to become the leading multi-line healthcare enterprise focusing on
the uninsured population and state funded healthcare initiatives.  We
intend to achieve this objective by implementing the following key components of
our strategy:
     
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Increase Penetration of
      Existing State Markets.  We seek to continue to increase
      our Medicaid membership in states in which we currently operate through
      alliances with key providers, outreach efforts, development and
      implementation of community-specific products and
      acquisitions.  In 2006, we were awarded two regions in
      connection with Ohio’s statewide restructuring of its Medicaid managed
      care program, expanding the number of counties we serve from three to
      27.  We also were awarded a Medicaid ABD contract in four
      regions in Ohio.  In Texas, we expanded our operations to the
      Corpus Christi market in 2006, began managing care for ABD recipients in
      February 2007 and began operations in the Foster Care program in April
      2008.  In Arizona, we began serving members within a long-term
      care plan in 2006 and within an acute care plan in 2008.  In
      2008, we began serving Medicare members within Special Needs Plans in
      Arizona, Ohio, Texas and Wisconsin. We may also increase membership by
      acquiring Medicaid businesses, contracts and other related assets from our
      competitors in our existing markets or by enlisting additional
      providers.  For example, in 2005 and 2006, we acquired certain
      Medicaid-related assets in Ohio.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Diversify Business
      Lines.  We seek to broaden our business lines into areas
      that complement our existing business to enable us to grow and diversify
      our revenue.  We are constantly evaluating new opportunities for
      expansion both domestically and abroad.  For instance, in July
      2008, we completed the acquisition of Celtic Insurance Company, or Celtic,
      a national individual health insurance provider, in October 2006, we
      commenced operations under our managed care program contracts to provide
      long-term care services in Arizona, and in January 2006, we completed the
      acquisition of US Script, a pharmacy benefits manager.  We are
      also considering other premium based or fee-for-service lines of business
      that would provide additional diversity.  We employ a
      disciplined acquisition strategy that is based on defined criteria
      including internal rate of return, accretion to earnings per share, market
      leadership and compatibility with our information systems.  We
      engage our executives in the relevant operational units or functional
      areas to ensure consistency between the diligence and integration
      process.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Address Emerging State
      Needs.  We work to assist the states in which we operate
      in addressing the operating challenges they face.  We seek to
      assist the states in balancing premium rates, benefit levels, member
      eligibility, policies and practices, and provider
      compensation.  For example, in 2008, we began operating under a
      contract with the Texas Health and Human Services Commission for
      Comprehensive Health Care for Children in Foster Care, a new statewide
      program providing managed care services to participants in the Texas
      Foster Care program.  In 2005, we began performing under our
      contracts with the State of Arizona to facilitate the delivery of mental
      health and substance abuse services to behavioral health recipients in
      Arizona.  Effective January 1, 2005, we were awarded a
      behavioral health contract to serve SCHIP members in Kansas.  By
      helping states structure an appropriate level and range of Medicaid, SCHIP
      and specialty services, we seek to ensure that we are able to continue to
      provide those services on terms that achieve targeted gross margins,
      provide an acceptable return and grow our
  business.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              Develop and Acquire Additional
      State Markets.  We continue to leverage our experience to
      identify and develop new markets by seeking both to acquire existing
      business and to build our own operations.  We expect to focus
      expansion in states where Medicaid recipients are mandated to enroll in
      managed care organizations, because we believe member enrollment levels
      are more predictable in these states.  For example, effective
      June 1, 2006, we began managing care for Medicaid and SCHIP members in
      Georgia.  In addition, we focus our attention on states
      converting to a full-risk, managed care model.  For example, in
      2007, we entered the South Carolina market and we participated in the
      state’s conversion to at-risk managed care.   In February
      2009, we began managed care operations in Florida through conversion of
      members in certain counties from Access Health Solutions to at-risk
      managed care in Sunshine State Health Plan, through our new state
      contract.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Leverage Established
      Infrastructure to Enhance Operating Efficiencies.  We
      intend to continue to invest in infrastructure to further drive
      efficiencies in operations and to add functionality to improve the service
      provided to members and other organizations at a low cost.  Our
      centralized functions enable us to add members and markets quickly and
      economically.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Maintain Operational
      Discipline.  We monitor our cost trends, operating
      performance, regulatory relationships and the Medicaid political
      environment in our existing markets.  We seek to operate in
      markets that allow us to meet our internal metrics including membership
      growth, plan size, market leadership and operating
      efficiency.  We may divest contracts or health plans in markets
      where the state’s Medicaid environment, over a long-term basis, does not
      allow us to meet our targeted performance levels.  We use
      multiple techniques to monitor and reduce our medical costs, including
      on-site hospital review by staff nurses and involvement of medical
      management and finance personnel in significant cases.  Our
      financial management teams evaluate the financial impact of proposed
      changes in provider relationships.  We also conduct monthly
      reviews of member demographics for each health
  plan.
            
          
      
    
    
    MEDICAID
MANAGED CARE
     
    Health
Plans
     
    We have
regulated subsidiaries offering healthcare services in each state we
serve.  The table below provides summary data for the state markets we
currently serve:
    
    
      
          
            
              State
            
             
      
            
              Local
      Health Plan Name
            
            
                
            
            
              First
      Year of Operations Under the Company
            
            
                
            
            
              Counties
      Served at December 31, 2008
            
            
                
            
            
              Market
      Share (1)
            
             
      
            
              Membership
      at
              December
      31, 2008
            
            
                
            
          
          
            
              Florida
      (2)
            
             
      
            
              Sunshine
      State Health Plan
            
             
      
            
              2009
            
             
      
            
              —
            
             
      
            
              —
            
             
      
            
              —
            
             
      
          
          
            
              Georgia
            
             
      
            
              Peach
      State Health Plan
            
             
      
            
              2006
            
             
      
            
              90
            
             
      
            
              29.4%
            
             
      
            
              288,300
            
             
      
          
          
            
              Indiana
            
             
      
            
              Managed
      Health Services
            
             
      
            
              1995
            
             
      
            
              92
            
             
      
            
              30.0%
            
             
      
            
              175,300
            
             
      
          
          
            
              New
      Jersey
      (3)
            
             
      
            
              University
      Health Plans
            
             
      
            
              2002
            
             
      
            
              20
            
             
      
            
              6.7%
            
             
      
            
              55,200
            
             
      
          
          
            
              Ohio
            
             
      
            
              Buckeye
      Community Health Plan
            
             
      
            
              2004
            
             
      
            
              43
            
             
      
            
              9.9%
            
             
      
            
              133,400
            
             
      
          
          
            
              South
      Carolina
            
             
      
            
              Absolute
      Total Care
            
             
      
            
              2007
            
             
      
            
              42
            
             
      
            
              9.7%
            
             
      
            
              31,300
            
             
      
          
          
            
              Texas
            
             
      
            
              Superior
      HealthPlan
            
             
      
            
              1999
            
             
      
            
              242
            
             
      
            
              23.4%
            
             
      
            
              431,700
            
             
      
          
          
            
              Wisconsin
            
             
      
            
              Managed
      Health Services
            
             
      
            
              1984
            
             
      
            
              33
            
             
      
            
              15.8%
            
             
      
            
              124,800
            
             
      
          
      
    
    ________________________________
    
      
          
            
              (1)  
            
            
              Represents
      Medicaid and SCHIP membership as of December 31, 2008 as a percentage of
      total eligible Medicaid and SCHIP members in each state.  ABD
      programs are excluded.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              (2)  
            
            
              We
      began membership operations in Florida in February
  2009.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              (3)  
            
            
              In
      November 2008, we announced our intention to sell University Health
      Plans.  As a result, this plan is presented as discontinued
      operations in our consolidated financial statements, however as of
      December 31, 2008, the plan was still operated by Centene
      Corporation.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        5
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    All of
our revenue is derived from operations within the United States and its
territories.  We generally receive a fixed premium per member per
month pursuant to our state contracts.  Our medical costs have a
seasonality component due to cyclical illness, for example cold and flu season,
resulting in higher medical expenses beginning in the fourth quarter and
continuing throughout the first quarter of each year.  Our managed
care subsidiaries in Georgia, Ohio, and Texas had revenues from their respective
state governments that each exceeded 10% of our consolidated total revenues in
2008.  Other financial information about our segments is found in Note
20, Segment
Information, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
     
    Benefits
to States
     
    Our
ability to establish and maintain a leadership position in the markets we serve
results primarily from our demonstrated success in providing quality care while
reducing and managing costs, and from our specialized programs in working with
state governments.  Among the benefits we are able to provide to the
states with which we contract are:
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Significant cost savings
      compared to state paid reimbursement for services.  We
      bring bottom-line management experience to our health plans.  On
      the administrative and management side, we bring experience including
      quality of care improvement methods, utilization management procedures, an
      efficient claims payment system, and provider performance reporting, as
      well as managers and staff experienced in using these key elements to
      improve the quality of and access to
care.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Data-driven approaches to
      balance cost and verify eligibility.  Our Medicaid health
      plans have conducted enrollment processing and activities for state
      programs since 1984.  We seek to ensure effective enrollment
      procedures that move members into the plan, then educate them and ensure
      they receive needed services as quickly as possible.  Our IT
      department has created mapping/translation programs for loading membership
      and linking membership eligibility status to all of Centene’s
      subsystems.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ  
            
            
              Establishment of realistic and
      meaningful expectations for quality deliverables.  We
      have collaborated with state agencies in redefining benefits, eligibility
      requirements and provider fee schedules with the goal of maximizing the
      number of individuals covered through Medicaid, SCHIP, Foster Care and ABD
      programs.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Managed care expertise in
      government subsidized programs.  Our expertise in
      Medicaid has helped us establish and maintain strong relationships with
      our constituent communities of members, providers and state
      governments.  We provide access to services through local
      providers and staff that focus on the cultural norms of their individual
      communities.  To that end, systems and procedures have been
      designed to address community-specific challenges through outreach,
      education, transportation and other member support
    activities.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Improved medical
      outcomes.  We have implemented programs developed to
      achieve savings for state governments and improve medical outcomes for
      members by reducing inappropriate emergency room use, inpatient days and
      high cost interventions, as well as by managing care of chronic
      illness.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Timely payment of provider
      claims.  We are committed to ensuring that our
      information systems and claims payment systems meet or exceed state
      requirements.  We continuously endeavor to update our systems
      and processes to improve the timeliness of our provider
      payments.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ 
            
            
              Cost saving outreach and
      specialty programs.  Our health plans have adopted a
      physician-driven approach where network providers are actively engaged in
      developing and implementing healthcare delivery policies and
      strategies.  This approach is designed to eliminate unnecessary
      costs, improve services to members and simplify the administrative burdens
      placed on providers.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              Responsible collection and
      dissemination of utilization data.  We gather utilization
      data from multiple sources, allowing for an integrated view of our
      members’ utilization of services.  These sources include
      medical, vision and behavioral health claims and encounter data, pharmacy
      data, dental vendor claims and authorization data from the authorization
      and case management system utilized by us to coordinate
    care.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ  
            
            
              Timely and accurate
      reporting.  Our information systems have reporting
      capabilities which have been instrumental in identifying the need for new
      and/or improved healthcare and specialty programs.  For state
      agencies, our reporting capability is important in demonstrating an
      auditable program.
            
          
      
    
    
    Member
Programs and Services
    
    We
recognize the importance of member-focused delivery of quality managed care
services.  Our locally-based staff assist members in accessing care,
coordinating referrals to related health and social services and addressing
member concerns and questions.  While covered healthcare benefits vary
from state to state, our health plans generally provide the following
services:
    
    
      
          
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  primary
      and specialty physician care
            
             
      
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  transportation
      assistance
            
          
          
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  inpatient
      and outpatient hospital care
            
             
      
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  vision
      care
            
          
          
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  emergency
      and urgent care
            
             
      
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  dental
      care
            
          
          
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  prenatal
      care
            
             
      
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  immunizations
            
          
          
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  laboratory
      and x-ray services
            
             
      
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  prescriptions
      and limited over-the-counter drugs
            
          
          
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  home
      health and durable medical equipment
            
             
      
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  therapies
            
          
          
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  behavioral
      health and substance abuse services
            
             
      
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
                  social
      work services
            
          
          
            
              Ÿ
            
            
                  24-hour
      nurse advice line
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
      
    
    
    We also
provide the following education and outreach programs to inform and assist
members in accessing quality, appropriate healthcare services in an efficient
manner:
     
    
      
          
            
              Ÿ  
            
            
              MemberConnections is a community
      face-to-face outreach and education program designed to create a link
      between the member and the provider and help identify potential challenges
      or risk elements to a member’s health, such as nutritional challenges and
      health education shortcomings.  MemberConnections
      representatives also contact new members by phone or mail to discuss
      managed care, the Medicaid program and our services.  Our
      MemberConnections
      representatives make home visits, conduct educational programs and
      represent our health plans at community events such as health
      fairs.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              Ÿ  
            
            
              Start Smart For Your Baby
      is a prenatal and infant health program designed to increase the
      percentage of pregnant women receiving early prenatal care, reduce the
      incidence of low birth weight babies, identify high risk pregnancies,
      increase participation in the federal Women, Infant and Children program,
      prevent hospital admissions in the first year of life and increase
      well-child visits.  The program includes risk assessments,
      education through face-to-face meetings and materials, behavior
      modification plans, assistance in selecting a provider for the infant and
      scheduling newborn follow-up
visits.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              Ÿ  
            
            
              EPSDT Case Management
      is a preventive care program designed to educate our members on the
      benefits of Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment, or
      EPSDT, services.  We have a systematic program of communicating,
      tracking, outreach, reporting and follow-through that promotes state EPSDT
      programs.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              Ÿ  
            
            
              Life and Health Management
      Programs are designed to help members understand their disease and
      treatment plan and improve their wellness in a cost effective
      manner.  These programs address medical conditions that are
      common within the Medicaid population such as asthma, diabetes and
      pregnancy.  Our Specialty Services segment manages many of our
      life and health management programs.  Our ABD program uses a
      proprietary assessment tool that effectively identifies barriers to care,
      unmet functional needs, available social supports and the existence of
      behavioral health conditions that impede a member’s ability to maintain a
      proper health status.  Care coordinators develop individual care
      plans with the member and healthcare providers ensuring the full
      integration of behavioral, social and acute care
      services.  These care plans, while specific to an ABD member,
      incorporate “Condition Specific” practices in collaboration with physician
      partners and community resources.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        6
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    Providers
     
    For each
of our service areas, we establish a provider network consisting of primary and
specialty care physicians, hospitals and ancillary providers.  As of
December 31, 2008, the health plans we operated contracted with the following
number of physicians and hospitals:
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
                
            
            
              Primary
      Care
              Physicians
            
            
                
            
            
              Specialty
      Care
              Physicians
            
            
                
            
            
              Hospitals
            
          
          
            
              Georgia
            
             
      
            
              3,256
            
             
      
            
              9,620
            
             
      
            
              151
            
          
          
            
              Indiana
            
            
                
            
            
              914
            
            
                
            
            
              3,209
            
            
                
            
            
              79
            
          
          
            
              New
      Jersey (1)
            
             
      
            
              1,204
            
             
      
            
              4,362
            
             
      
            
              63
            
          
          
            
              Ohio
            
            
                
            
            
              2,200
            
            
                
            
            
              8,396
            
            
                
            
            
              122
            
          
          
            
              South
      Carolina
            
             
      
            
              592
            
             
      
            
              1,095
            
             
      
            
              19
            
          
          
            
              Texas
            
            
                
            
            
              7,633
            
            
                
            
            
              18,373
            
            
                
            
            
              382
            
          
          
            
              Wisconsin
            
            
                
            
            
              1,857
            
            
                
            
            
              4,985
            
            
                
            
            
              61
            
          
          
            
                 Total
            
             
      
            
              17,656
            
             
      
            
              50,040
            
             
      
            
              877
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              (1)
            
            
              In
      November 2008, we announced our intention to sell University Health
      Plans.  As a result, this plan is presented as discontinued
      operations in our consolidated financial statements, however as of
      December 31, 2008, the plan was still operated by Centene
      Corporation.
            
          
      
    
     
    Our
network of primary care physicians is a critical component in care delivery,
management of costs and the attraction and retention of new
members.  Primary care physicians include family and general
practitioners, pediatricians, internal medicine physicians and obstetricians and
gynecologists.  Specialty care physicians provide medical care to
members generally upon referral by the primary care
physicians.  Specialty care physicians include, but are not limited
to, orthopedic surgeons, cardiologists and otolaryngologists.  We also
provide education and outreach programs to inform and assist members in
accessing quality, appropriate healthcare services.
     
    Our
health plans facilitate access to healthcare services for our members primarily
through contracts with our providers.  Our contracts with primary and
specialty care physicians and hospitals usually are for one to two-year periods
and renew automatically for successive one-year terms, but generally are subject
to termination by either party upon 90 to 120 days prior written
notice.  In the absence of a contract, we typically pay providers at
state Medicaid reimbursement levels.  We pay physicians under a
fee-for-service, capitation arrangement, or risk-sharing
arrangement.
     
    
    
    
      
          
            
              Ÿ  
            
            
              Under
      our fee-for-service contracts with physicians, particularly specialty care
      physicians, we pay a negotiated fee for covered services.  This
      model is characterized as having no financial risk for the
      physician.  In addition, this model requires management
      oversight because our total cost may increase as the units of services
      increase or as more expensive services replace less expensive
      services.  We have prior authorization procedures in place that
      are intended to make sure that certain high cost diagnostic and other
      services are medically appropriate.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              Ÿ  
            
            
              Under
      our capitated contracts, primary care physicians are paid a monthly fee
      for each of our members assigned to his or her practice and are at risk
      for all costs associated with primary and specialty physician and
      emergency room services.  In return for this payment, these
      physicians provide all primary care and preventive services, including
      primary care office visits and EPSDT services.  If these
      physicians also provide non-capitated services to their assigned members,
      they may receive payment under fee-for-service arrangements at standard
      Medicaid rates.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              Ÿ  
            
            
              Under
      risk-sharing arrangements, physicians are paid under a capitated or
      fee-for-service arrangement.  The arrangement, however, contains
      provisions for additional bonus to the physicians or reimbursement from
      the physicians based upon cost and quality factors.  We often
      refer to these arrangements as Model 1
  contracts.
            
          
      
    
    
    We work
with physicians to help them operate efficiently by providing financial and
utilization information, physician and patient educational programs and disease
and medical management programs.  Our programs are also designed to
help the physicians coordinate care outside of their offices.  In
addition, we are governed by state prompt payment policies.
     
    We
believe our collaborative approach with physicians gives us a competitive
advantage in entering new markets.  Our physicians serve on local
committees that assist us in implementing preventive care programs, managing
costs and improving the overall quality of care delivered to our members, while
also simplifying the administrative burdens on our providers.  This
approach has enabled us to strengthen our provider networks through improved
physician recruitment and retention that, in turn, have helped to increase our
membership base.  The following are among the services we provide to
support physicians:
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
                
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              Ÿ
            
            
              Customized Utilization Reports
      provide certain of our contracted physicians with information that
      enables them to run their practices more efficiently and focuses them on
      specific patient needs.  For example, quarterly detail reports
      update physicians on their status within their risk
      pools.  Equivalency reports provide physicians with financial
      comparisons of capitated versus fee-for-service
    arrangements.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              Ÿ
            
            
              Case Management Support
      helps the physician coordinate specialty care and ancillary
      services for patients with complex conditions and direct members to
      appropriate community resources to address both their health and
      socio-economic needs.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
               
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              Ÿ
            
            
              Web-based Claims and
      Eligibility Resources have been implemented in selected markets to
      provide physicians with on-line access to perform claims and eligibility
      inquiries.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
               
            
          
      
    
    Our
contracted physicians also benefit from several of the services offered to our
members, including the MemberConnections, EPSDT case
management and health management programs.  For example, the
MemberConnections staff
facilitates doctor/patient relationships by connecting members with physicians,
the EPSDT programs encourage routine checkups for children with their physicians
and the health management programs assist physicians in managing their patients
with chronic disease.
    
    Where
appropriate, our health plans contract with our specialty services organizations
to provide services and programs such as behavioral health, health management,
managed vision, nurse triage, pharmacy benefit management, and treatment
compliance.  When necessary, we also contract with third-party
providers on a negotiated fee arrangement for physical therapy, home healthcare,
diagnostic laboratory tests, x-ray examinations, ambulance services and durable
medical equipment.  Additionally, we contract with dental vendors in
markets where routine dental care is a covered benefit.
     
    Quality
Management
     
    Our
medical management programs focus on improving quality of care in areas that
have the greatest impact on our members.  We employ strategies,
including health management and complex case management, that are adjusted for
implementation in our individual markets by a system of physician committees
chaired by local physician leaders.  This process promotes physician
participation and support, both critical factors in the success of any clinical
quality improvement program.
    
    We have
implemented specialized information systems to support our medical quality
management activities.  Information is drawn from our data warehouse,
clinical databases and our membership and claims processing system, to identify
opportunities to improve care and to track the outcomes of the interventions
implemented to achieve those improvements.  Some examples of these
intervention programs include:
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              appropriate
      leveling of care for neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) hospital
      admissions, other inpatient hospital admissions, and observation
      admissions, in accordance with Interqual
  criteria;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              tightening
      of our pre-authorization list and more stringent review of durable medical
      equipment and injectibles.
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              emergency
      department (ED) program designed to collaboratively work with hospitals to
      steer non-emergency care away from the costly ED setting (through patient
      education, on-site alternative urgent care settings,
  etc.);
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              increase
      emphasis on case management and clinical rounding where case managers are
      nurses or social workers who are employed by the health plan to assist
      selected patients with the coordination of healthcare services in order to
      meet a patient's specific healthcare
needs;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              incorporation
      of disease management, which is a comprehensive, multidisciplinary,
      collaborative approach to chronic illnesses such as asthma and
      diabetes;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              
                Ÿ
              
            
            
              Smart
      Start For Your Baby, a prenatal case management program aimed at helping
      women with high-risk pregnancies deliver full-term, healthy
      infants.
            
          
      
    
    
    We
provide reporting on a regular basis using our data warehouse.  State
and Health Employer Data and Information Set, or HEDIS, reporting constitutes
the core of the information base that drives our clinical quality performance
efforts.  This reporting is monitored by Plan Quality Improvement
Committees and our corporate medical management team.
     
    In an
effort to ensure the quality of our provider networks, we undertake to verify
the credentials and background of our providers using standards that are
supported by the National Committee for Quality Assurance.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        7
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    Information
Technology
     
    The
ability to access data and translate it into meaningful information is essential
to operating across a multi-state service area in a cost-effective
manner.  Our centralized information systems, which are located in St.
Louis, Missouri, support our core processing functions under a set of integrated
databases and are designed to be both replicable and scalable to accommodate
organic growth and growth from acquisitions.  We continue to enhance
our systems in order to leverage the platform we have developed for our existing
states for configuration into new states or health plan
acquisitions.
     
           
Our integrated approach helps to assure that consistent sources of claim and
member information are provided across all of our health plans.  Our
membership and claims processing system is capable of expanding to support
additional members in an efficient manner.  We have a disaster
recovery and business resumption plan developed and implemented in conjunction
with a third party.  This plan allows us complete access to the
business resumption centers and hot-site facilities provided by the
plan.
     
    SPECIALTY
SERVICES
    
       
      Our
Specialty Services segment is a key component of our healthcare enterprise and
complements our core Medicaid Managed Care business.  Specialty
services diversifies our revenue stream, provides higher quality health outcomes
to our membership and others, and assists in controlling costs.  Our
specialty services are provided primarily through the following
businesses: 
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                Behavioral
      Health.  Cenpatico Behavioral Health, or Cenpatico,
      manages behavioral healthcare for members via a contracted network of
      providers.  Cenpatico works with providers to determine the best
      course of treatment for a given diagnosis and helps ensure members and
      their providers are aware of the full array of services
      available.  Our networks feature a range of services so that
      patients can be treated at an appropriate level of care.  We
      also run school-based programs in Arizona that focus on students with
      special needs.  We acquired Cenpatico in
  2003.
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                Individual Health
      Insurance.  Our individual health insurance company,
      Celtic, is a national healthcare provider offering high-quality,
      affordable health insurance to individual customers and their
      families.  Sold online and through independent insurance agents
      nationwide, Celtic’s portfolio of major medical plans is designed to meet
      the diverse needs of the uninsured at all budget and benefit levels.
      Celtic also offers a standalone guaranteed-issue medical conversion
      program to self-funded employer groups, stop-loss and fully-insured group
      carriers, managed care plans, and HMO reinsurers. We acquired Celtic in
      2008.
              
            
        
      
       
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                Life and Health
      Management.  Our life and health management company,
      Nurtur Health specializes in implementing life and health management
      programs that encourage healthy behaviors, promote healthier workplaces,
      improve productivity and reduce healthcare costs.  Specific
      focuses include chronic respiratory health management, cardiac health
      management, and work/life management.  Through its
      specialization in respiratory management, Nurtur Health uses self-care
      therapies, in-home interaction and informatics processes to deliver highly
      effective clinical results, enhanced patient-provider satisfaction and
      greater cost reductions in respiratory management.  Nurtur
      Health was formed in December 2007 through the combination of three entities we
      acquired from July 2005 through November
2007.
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                Long-term Care and Acute
      Care.  Bridgeway Health Solutions, or Bridgeway, provides
      long-term care services to the elderly and people with disabilities on ABD
      that meet income and resources requirements who are at risk of being or
      are institutionalized.  Bridgeway has members in the Maricopa,
      Yuma and La Paz counties of Arizona.  Bridgeway participates
      with community groups to address situations that might be barriers to
      quality care and independent living.  Bridgeway commenced
      long-term care operations in October 2006.  Bridgeway also
      provides acute care services to members in the Yavapai county of
      Arizona.  These services include emergency and physician
      services, limited dental and rehabilitative services and other
      maternal and child health services.  Bridgeway commenced acute
      care operations in October 2008.
              
            
        
      
       
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                Managed
      Vision.  OptiCare manages vision benefits for members via
      a contracted network of providers.  OptiCare works with
      providers to provide a variety of vision plan designs and helps ensure
      members and their providers are aware of the full array of products and
      services available.  Our networks feature a range of products
      and services so that patients can be treated at an appropriate level of
      care.  We acquired the managed vision business of OptiCare
      Health Systems, Inc. in July 2006.
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                Nurse
      Triage.  NurseWise and Nurse Response provide a toll-free
      nurse triage line 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, 52 weeks per
      year.  Our members call one number and reach bilingual customer
      service representatives and nursing staff who provide health education,
      triage advice and offer continuous access to health plan
      functions.  Additionally, our representatives verify
      eligibility, confirm primary care provider assignments and provide benefit
      and network referral coordination for members and providers after business
      hours.  Our staff can arrange for urgent pharmacy refills,
      transportation and qualified behavioral health professionals for crisis
      stabilization assessments.  Call volume is based on membership
      levels and seasonal variation.  NurseWise commenced operations
      in 1998.
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                Pharmacy Benefits
      Management.  US Script is a pharmacy benefits manager
      that administers pharmacy benefits and processes pharmacy claims via its
      proprietary claims processing software.  US Script has developed
      and administers a contracted national network of retail
      pharmacies.  We acquired US Script in January
    2006.
              
            
        
      
      
      CORPORATE
COMPLIANCE
       
      Our
Corporate Ethics and Compliance Program was first established in 1998 and
provides methods by which we further enhance operations, safeguard against fraud
and abuse, improve access to quality care and help assure that our values are
reflected in everything we do.
       
      The two
primary standards by which corporate compliance programs in the healthcare
industry are measured are the 1991 Federal Organizational Sentencing Guidelines
and the “Compliance Program Guidance” series issued by the Office of the
Inspector General, or OIG, of the Department of Health and Human
Services.  Our program contains each of the seven elements suggested
by the Sentencing Guidelines and the OIG guidance.  These key
components are:
      
      
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                
                  written
      standards of conduct;
                
              
            
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                designation
      of a corporate compliance officer and compliance
  committee;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                effective
      training and education;  
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                effective
      lines for reporting and communication;
 
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                enforcement
      of standards through disciplinary guidelines and actions;
       
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                internal
      monitoring and auditing; and  
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                prompt
      response to detected offenses and development of corrective action
      plans.
              
            
        
      
       
      Our
internal Corporate Compliance website, accessible by all employees, contains our
Business Ethics and Conduct Policy, our Mission, Values and Philosophies and
Compliance Programs, a company-wide policy and procedure database and our
toll-free hotline to allow employees or other persons to report suspected
incidents of fraud, abuse or other violations.  The audit committee
and the board of directors review a compliance report on a quarterly
basis.
      
      COMPETITION
       
      We
continue to face varying and increasing levels of competition as we expand in
our existing service areas or enter new markets, as federal regulations require
at least two competitors in each service area.  Healthcare reform
proposals may cause a number of commercial managed care organizations to decide
to enter or exit the Medicaid market.
       
      In our business, our principal
competitors for state contracts, members and providers consist of the following
types of organizations:
       
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                Medicaid Managed Care
      Organizations focus on providing healthcare services to Medicaid
      recipients.  These organizations consist of national and
      regional organizations, as well as smaller organizations that operate in
      one city or state and are owned by providers, primarily
      hospitals.
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                National and Regional
      Commercial Managed Care Organizations have Medicaid members in
      addition to members in private commercial plans.  Some of these
      organizations offer a range of specialty services including pharmacy
      benefits management, behavioral health management, health management, and
      nurse triage call support centers.
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                Primary Care Case Management
      Programs are programs established by the states through contracts
      with primary care providers.  Under these programs, physicians
      provide primary care services to Medicaid recipients, as well as limited
      medical management oversight.
              
            
        
      
      
      We
compete with other managed care organizations and specialty companies for state
contracts.  In order to grant a contract, state governments consider
many factors.  These factors include quality of care, financial
requirements, an ability to deliver services and establish provider networks and
infrastructure.  In addition, our specialty companies also compete
with other providers, such as disease management companies, individual health
insurance companies, and pharmacy benefits managers for non-governmental
contracts.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          8
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      We also
compete to enroll new members and retain existing members.  People who
wish to enroll in a managed healthcare plan or to change healthcare plans
typically choose a plan based on the quality of care and services offered, ease
of access to services, a specific provider being part of the network and the
availability of supplemental benefits.  In certain markets, where
recipients select a physician instead of a health plan, we are able to grow our
membership by adding new physicians to our provider base.
       
      We also
compete with other managed care organizations to enter into contracts with
physicians, physician groups and other providers.  We believe the
factors that providers consider in deciding whether to contract with us include
existing and potential member volume, reimbursement rates, medical management
programs, speed of reimbursement and administrative service
capabilities.  See “Risk Factors — Competition may limit our ability
to increase penetration of the markets that we serve.”
       
      REGULATION
       
      Our
healthcare and specialty operations are regulated at both state and federal
levels.  Government regulation of the provision of healthcare products
and services is a changing area of law that varies from jurisdiction to
jurisdiction.  Regulatory agencies generally have discretion to issue
regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules.  Changes in
applicable laws and rules also may occur periodically.
      
      Our
regulated subsidiaries are licensed to operate as health maintenance
organizations and/or insurance companies in their respective
states.  In each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we are
regulated by the relevant health, insurance and/or human services departments
that oversee the activities of managed care organizations providing or arranging
to provide services to Medicaid enrollees.
       
      The
process for obtaining authorization to operate as a managed care organization is
complex and requires demonstration to the regulators of the adequacy of the
health plan’s organizational structure, financial resources, utilization review,
quality assurance programs, complaint procedures, provider network adequacy and
procedures for covering emergency medical conditions.  Under both
state managed care organization statutes and state insurance laws, our health
plan subsidiaries, as well as our specialty companies, must comply with minimum
statutory capital requirements or other financial requirements, such as deposit
and reserve requirements.  Insurance regulations may also require
prior state approval of acquisitions of other managed care organizations’
businesses and the payment of dividends, as well as notice for loans or the
transfer of funds.  Our subsidiaries are also subject to periodic
reporting requirements.  In addition, each health plan and individual
health insurance provider must meet criteria to secure the approval of state
regulatory authorities before implementing operational changes, including the
development of new product offerings and, in some states, the expansion of
service areas.
       
      States
have adopted a number of regulations that may affect our business and results of
operations.  These regulations in certain states include:
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                premium
      and maintenance taxes;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                stringent
      prompt-pay laws;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                requirements
      of National Provider Identifier numbers on claim
    submittals;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                disclosure
      requirements regarding provider fee schedules and coding procedures;
      and
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ  
              
              
                programs
      to monitor and supervise the activities and financial solvency of provider
      groups.
              
            
        
      
       
      
        State
Contracts
      
      
      In order
to be a Medicaid Managed Care organization in each of the states in which we
operate, we must operate under a contract with the state’s Medicaid
agency.  States generally use either a formal proposal process,
reviewing a number of bidders, or award individual contracts to qualified
applicants that apply for entry to the program.  We receive monthly
payments based on specified capitation rates determined on an actuarial
basis.  These rates differ by membership category and by state
depending on the specific benefits and policies adopted by each
state.
       
      Our
contracts with the states and regulatory provisions applicable to us generally
set forth the requirements for operating in the Medicaid sector, including
provisions relating to:
      
      
        
            
              
                Ÿ eligibility,
      enrollment and disenrollment processes;
              
               
      
              
                Ÿ health education
      and wellness and prevention programs;
              
            
            
              
                Ÿ covered
      services;
              
               
      
              
                Ÿ timeliness of
      claims payment;
              
            
            
              
                Ÿ eligible
      providers;
              
               
      
              
                Ÿ financial
      standards;
              
            
            
              
                Ÿ
      subcontractors;
              
               
      
              
                Ÿ safeguarding of
      member information;
              
            
            
              
                Ÿ record-keeping
      and record retention;
              
               
      
              
                Ÿ fraud and abuse
      detection and reporting;
              
            
            
              
                Ÿ periodic
      financial and informational reporting;
              
               
      
              
                Ÿ grievance
      procedures; and
              
            
            
              
                Ÿ quality
      assurance;
              
               
      
              
                Ÿ organization and
      administrative systems.
              
            
        
      
      
      A health
plan or individual health insurance providers’ compliance with these
requirements is subject to monitoring by state regulators and by
CMS.  A health plan is also subject to periodic comprehensive quality
assurance evaluations by a third-party reviewing organization and generally by
the insurance department of the jurisdiction that licenses the health
plan.  A health plan or individual health insurance provider must also
submit reports to various regulatory agencies, including quarterly and annual
statutory financial statements and utilization reports.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      The table
below sets forth the term of our state contracts and provides details regarding
related renewal or extension and termination provisions as of January 1,
2009.
       
      
        
            
              
                State
      Contract
              
              
                  
              
              
                Expiration
      Date
              
              
                  
              
              
                Renewal
      or Extension by the State
              
               
      
              
                Termination
      by the State
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Arizona
      – Acute Care
              
               
      
              
                September
      30, 2011
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended for up to two additional one-year terms.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for convenience or an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Arizona
      – Behavioral Health
              
               
      
              
                June
      30, 2009
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended for up to one additional year.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for convenience or an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Arizona
      – Long-term Care
              
               
      
              
                September
      30, 2009
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended for up to two additional years.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for convenience, an event of default or lack of
      funding.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Arizona
      – Special Needs Plan (Medicare)
              
               
      
              
                December
      31, 2009
              
               
      
              
                Renewable
      annually for successive 12-month periods.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated by an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Florida
      - Medicaid
              
               
      
              
                August
      31, 2009
              
               
      
              
                Renewable
      through the state’s recertification process.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for an event of default or lack of federal
      funding.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Georgia
      – Medicaid & SCHIP
              
               
      
              
                June
      30, 2009
              
               
      
              
                Renewable
      for three additional one-year terms.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for an event of default or significant changes in
      circumstances.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Indiana
      – Medicaid & SCHIP
              
               
      
              
                December
      31, 2010
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended for up to two additional years.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for convenience or an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Kansas
      – Behavioral Health
              
               
      
              
                June
      30, 2009
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended with three one-year renewal options.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for cause, or without cause for lack of
    funding.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                New
      Jersey – Medicaid, SCHIP & ABD
              
               
      
              
                June
      30, 2009
              
               
      
              
                Renewable
      annually for successive 12-month periods.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for convenience or an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Ohio
      – Medicaid & SCHIP
              
               
      
              
                June
      30, 2009
              
               
      
              
                Renewable
      annually for successive 12-month periods.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Ohio
      – Aged, Blind or Disabled (ABD)
              
               
      
              
                June
      30, 2009
              
               
      
              
                Renewable
      annually for successive 12-month periods.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Ohio
      – Special Needs Plan (Medicare)
              
               
      
              
                December
      31, 2009
              
               
      
              
                Renewable
      annually for successive 12-month periods.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated by an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                South
      Carolina – Medicaid & ABD
              
               
      
              
                March
      31, 2009
              
               
      
              
                Renewable
      annually for successive 12-month periods.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for convenience or an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                South
      Carolina – SCHIP
              
               
      
              
                March
      31, 2009
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended for up to one additional year.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for convenience, an event of default or lack of federal
      funding.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Texas  –Medicaid,
      SCHIP & ABD
              
               
      
              
                August
      31, 2010
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended for up to four additional years.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for convenience, an event of default or lack of federal
      funding.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Texas
      – Exclusive Provider Organization (SCHIP)
              
               
      
              
                August
      31, 2009
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended for up to one additional year.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated upon any event of default or in the event of lack of state
      or federal funding.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Texas
      – Foster Care
              
               
      
              
                August
      31, 2010
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended for up to four and a half additional years.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated for convenience, an event of default, or non-appropriation
      of funds.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Texas
      – Special Needs Plan (Medicare)
              
               
      
              
                December
      31, 2009
              
               
      
              
                Renewable
      annually for successive 12-month periods.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated by an event of default.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Wisconsin
      –Medicaid & ABD
              
               
      
              
                December
      31, 2009
              
               
      
              
                May
      be extended for up to one additional year.
              
               
      
              
                May
      be terminated if a change in state or federal laws, rules or regulations
      materially affects either party’s right or responsibilities or for an
      event of default or lack of funding.
              
            
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Wisconsin
      – Network Health Plan Subcontract 
              
               
              
                December
      31, 2011 
              
               
              
                Renews
      automatically for successive five-year terms. 
               
              
                May
      be terminated upon two-years notice prior to the end of the then current
      term or if a change in state or federal laws, rules or regulations
      materially affects either party’s rights or responsibilities under the
      contract, or if Network Health Plan’s contract with the State is
      terminated. 
              
            
            
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
            
            
              
                Wisconsin
      – Special Needs Plan (Medicare) 
              
               
              
                December
      31, 2009
              
               
              
                Renewable
      annually for successive 12-month periods. 
              
               
              
                May
      be terminated by an event of
default.
              
            
        
      
       
      
        HIPAA
      
       
      In 1996,
Congress enacted the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996, or HIPAA.  The Act is designed to improve the portability and
continuity of health insurance coverage and simplify the administration of
health insurance claims.  Among the main requirements of HIPAA are
standards for the processing of health insurance claims and related
transactions.
       
      The
regulation’s requirements apply to transactions conducted using “electronic
media.” Since “electronic media” is defined broadly to include “transmissions
that are physically moved from one location to another using magnetic tape, disk
or compact disk media,” many communications are considered to be electronically
transmitted.  Under the HIPAA regulations, health plans are required
to have the capacity to accept and send all covered transactions in a
standardized electronic format.  Penalties can be imposed for failure
to comply with these requirements.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      HIPAA
regulations also protect the privacy of medical records and other personal
health information maintained and used by healthcare providers, health plans and
healthcare clearinghouses.  We have implemented processes, policies
and procedures to comply with the HIPAA privacy regulations, including education
and training for employees.  In addition, the corporate privacy
officer and health plan privacy officials serve as resources to employees to
address any questions or concerns they may have.  Among numerous other
requirements, the privacy regulations:
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
                Ÿ
              
              
                limit
      certain uses and disclosures of private health information, and require
      patient authorizations for such uses and disclosures of private health
      information;
              
            
        
      
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
                Ÿ
              
              
                
                  guarantee
      patients rights to access their medical records and to know who else has
      accessed them;
                
              
            
            
               
              
                Ÿ
              
              
                limit
      most disclosure of health information to the minimum needed for the
      intended purpose; 
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
                Ÿ
              
              
                establish
      procedures to ensure the protection of private health
      information;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
                Ÿ
              
              
                authorize
      access to records by researchers and others;
and
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
                Ÿ
              
              
                impose
      criminal and civil sanctions for improper uses or disclosures of health
      information.
              
            
        
      
       
      The
preemption provisions of HIPAA provide that the federal standards will not
preempt state laws that are more stringent than the related federal
requirements.  In addition, the Secretary of HHS may grant exceptions
allowing state laws to prevail if one or more of a number of conditions are met,
including but not limited to the following:
      
      Ÿ      the
state law is necessary to prevent fraud and abuse associated with the provision
of and payment for healthcare;
      Ÿ      the
state law is necessary to ensure appropriate state regulation of insurance and
health plans;
      Ÿ      the
state law is necessary for state reporting on healthcare delivery or costs;
or
      Ÿ      the
state law addresses controlled substances.
      
      In 2003,
HHS published final regulations relating to the security of electronic
individually identifiable health information.  Compliance with these
regulations was required by April 2005.  These regulations require
healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses to implement
administrative, physical and technical safeguards to ensure the privacy and
confidentiality of such information when it is electronically stored, maintained
or transmitted through such devices as user authentication mechanisms and system
activity audits.  In addition, numerous states have adopted personal
data security laws that provide for, among other things, private rights of
action for breaches of data security and mandatory notification to persons whose
identifiable information is obtained without authorization.
      
      Patients’
Rights Legislation
      
      The
United States Senate and House of Representatives passed different versions of
patients’ rights legislation in 2001.  Both versions included
provisions that specifically apply protections to participants in federal
healthcare programs, including Medicaid beneficiaries.  Although no
such federal legislation has been enacted, patients’ rights legislation is
frequently proposed in Congress.  If enacted, this type of legislation
could expand our potential exposure to lawsuits and increase our regulatory
compliance costs.  Depending on the final form of any enacted
patients’ rights legislation, such legislation could, among other things, expose
us to liability for economic and punitive damages for making determinations that
deny benefits or delay beneficiaries’ receipt of benefits as a result of our
medical necessity or other coverage determinations.  We cannot predict
when or whether patients’ rights legislation will be enacted into law or, if
enacted, what final form such legislation might take.
      
      Other
Fraud and Abuse Laws
      
      Investigating
and prosecuting healthcare fraud and abuse became a top priority for law
enforcement entities in the last decade.  The focus of these efforts
has been directed at participants in public government healthcare programs such
as Medicaid.  The laws and regulations relating to Medicaid fraud and
abuse and the contractual requirements applicable to health plans participating
in these programs are complex and changing and may require substantial
resources.
      
      EMPLOYEES
      
      As of
December 31, 2008, we had approximately 3,600 employees.  None of our
employees are represented by a union.  We believe our relationships
with our employees are good.
      
      EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
      
      The
following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers,
including their ages, at January 31, 2009:
       
      
        
            
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
               
      
            
            
              
                Name
              
              
                  
              
              
                Age
              
              
                  
              
              
                Position
              
            
            
              
                Michael
      F. Neidorff
              
              
                  
              
              
                66
              
              
                  
              
              
                Chairman
      and Chief Executive Officer
              
            
            
              
                Mark
      W. Eggert
              
               
      
              
                47
              
               
      
              
                Executive
      Vice President, Health Plan Business Unit
              
            
            
              
                Carol
      E. Goldman
              
              
                  
              
              
                51
              
              
                  
              
              
                Executive
      Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer
              
            
            
              
                Cary
      D. Hobbs
              
               
      
              
                41
              
               
      
              
                Senior
      Vice President, Business Management and Integration
              
            
            
              
                Jesse
      N. Hunter
              
               
      
              
                33
              
               
      
              
                Executive
      Vice President, Corporate Development
              
            
            
              
                Donald
      G. Imholz
              
               
      
              
                56
              
               
      
              
                Senior
      Vice President and Chief Information Officer
              
            
            
              
                Edmund
      E. Kroll
              
               
      
              
                49
              
               
      
              
                Senior
      Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations
              
            
            
              
                Frederick
      J. Manning
              
               
      
              
                61
              
               
      
              
                Executive
      Vice President, Celtic Insurance Company
              
            
            
              
                William
      N. Scheffel
              
              
                  
              
              
                55
              
              
                  
              
              
                Executive
      Vice President, Specialty Business Unit
              
            
            
              
                Jeffrey
      A. Schwaneke
              
               
      
              
                33
              
               
      
              
                Vice
      President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer
              
            
            
              
                Eric
      R. Slusser
              
               
      
              
                48
              
               
      
              
                Executive
      Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
              
            
            
              
                Keith
      H. Williamson
              
               
      
              
                56
              
               
      
              
                Senior
      Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary
              
            
        
      
       
      Michael F.
Neidorff.  Mr. Neidorff has served as our Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer since May 2004.  From May 1996 to May 2004, Mr.
Neidorff served as President, Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our
board of directors.  From 1995 to 1996, Mr. Neidorff served as a
Regional Vice President of Coventry Corporation, a publicly-traded managed care
organization, and as the President and Chief Executive Officer of one of its
subsidiaries, Group Health Plan, Inc. From 1985 to 1995, Mr. Neidorff served as
the President and Chief Executive Officer of Physicians Health Plan of Greater
St. Louis, a subsidiary of United Healthcare Corp., a publicly-traded managed
care organization now known as UnitedHealth Group Incorporated.  Mr.
Neidorff also serves as a director of Brown Shoe Company, Inc., a
publicly-traded footwear company with global operations.
      
      Mark W.
Eggert.  Mr. Eggert has served as our Executive Vice President,
Health Plan Business Unit since November 2007.  From January 1999 to
November 2007, Mr. Eggert served as the Associate Vice Chancellor and Deputy
General Counsel at Washington University, where he oversaw the legal affairs of
the School of Medicine.
      
      Carol E.
Goldman.  Ms. Goldman has served as Executive Vice President
and Chief Administrative Officer since June 2007.  From July 2002 to
June 2007, she served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative
Officer.  From September 2001 to July 2002, Ms. Goldman served as our
Plan Director of Human Resources.  From 1998 to August 2001, Ms.
Goldman was Human Resources Manager at Mallinckrodt Inc., a medical device and
pharmaceutical company.
      
      Cary D. Hobbs.  Ms.
Hobbs has served as our Senior Vice President, Business Management and
Integration since September 2007.  She served as our Senior Vice
President of Strategy and Business Implementation from January 2004 to September
2007.  She served as our Vice President of Strategy and Business
Implementation from September 2002 to January 2004 and as our Director of
Business Implementation from 1997 to August 2002.
      
      Jesse N.
Hunter.  Mr. Hunter has served as our Executive Vice President,
Corporate Development since April 2008.  He served as our Senior Vice
President, Corporate Development from April 2007 to April 2008.  He
served as our Vice President, Corporate Development from December 2006 to April
2007.  From October 2004 to December 2006, he served as our Vice
President, Mergers & Acquisitions.  From July 2003 until October
2004, he served as the Director of Mergers & Acquisitions and from February
2002 until July 2003, he served as the Manager of Mergers &
Acquisitions.
      
      Donald G. Imholz.  
Mr. Imholz has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer
since September 2008.  From January 2008 to September 2008, Mr. Imholz
was an independent consultant working for clients across a variety of
industries. From January 1975 to January 2008, Mr. Imholz was with The Boeing
Company and served as Vice President of Information Technology from 2002 to
January 2008. In that role, Mr. Imholz was responsible for all application
development and support worldwide.  
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          11
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      Edmund E.
Kroll.  Mr. Kroll has served as our Senior Vice President,
Finance and Investor Relations since May 2007.  From June 1997 to
November 2006, Mr. Kroll served as Managing Director at Cowen and Company LLC,
where his research coverage focused on the managed care industry, including the
Company.
      
      Frederick J.
Manning.  Mr. Manning has served as our Executive Vice
President, Celtic Insurance Company since July 2008.  From 1978 to
July 2008, Mr. Manning served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board of Celtic Insurance Company.
      
      William N.
Scheffel.  Mr. Scheffel has served as our Executive Vice
President, Specialty Business Unit since June 2007. From May 2005 to June 2007,
he served as our Senior Vice President, Specialty Business Unit.  From
December 2003 until May 2005, he served as our Senior Vice President and
Controller.  From July 2002 to October 2003, Mr. Scheffel was a
partner with Ernst & Young LLP.  From 1975 to July 2002, Mr.
Scheffel was with Arthur Andersen LLP.
      
      Jeffrey A.
Schwaneke.  Mr. Schwaneke has served as our Vice President,
Corporate Controller since July 2008 and Chief Accounting Officer since
September 2008.  He previously served as Vice President, Controller
and Chief Accounting Officer at Novelis Inc. from October 2007 to July 2008, and
Assistant Corporate Controller from May 2006 to September 2007.  Mr.
Schwaneke served as Segment Controller for SPX Corporation from January 2005 to
April 2006.  Mr. Schwaneke served as Corporate Controller at Marley
Cooling Technologies, a segment of SPX Corporation, from March 2004 to December
2004 and Director of Financial Reporting from November 2002 to February
2004.
      
      Eric R.
Slusser.  Mr. Slusser has served as our Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2007 and as our Treasurer since
February 2008.  Mr. Slusser served as Executive Vice President of
Finance, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of Cardinal Health, Inc. from
May 2006 to July 2007 and as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and
Controller of Cardinal Health, Inc. from May 2005 to May 2006.  Mr.
Slusser served as Senior Vice President-Chief Accounting Officer and Controller
for MCI, Inc. from November 2003 to May 2005, as Corporate Controller for
AES (an electric power generation and transmission company) from May 2003
to November 2003, and as Vice President-Controller from January 1996 to May 2003
for Sprint PCS.
      
      Keith H.
Williamson.  Mr. Williamson has served as our Senior Vice
President, General Counsel since November 2006 and as our Secretary since
February 2007.  From 1988 until November 2006, he served at Pitney
Bowes Inc. in various legal and executive roles, the last seven years as a
Division President.  Mr. Williamson also serves as a director of PPL
Corporation, a publicly-traded energy and utility holding company.
       
      Available
Information
      
      We are
subject to the reporting and information requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) and, as a result, we file periodic
reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or
SEC. We make these filings available on our website free of charge, the URL of
which is http://www.centene.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC
maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains our annual, quarterly and
current reports and other information we file electronically with the SEC. You
can read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1850,
Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of
the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Information on
our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
      
      Item 1A.  Risk Factors
      
      You
should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment
decision.  The trading price of our common stock could decline due to
any of these risks, in which case you could lose all or part of your
investment.  You should also refer to the other information in this
filing, including our consolidated financial statements and related
notes.  The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we
currently believe may materially affect our Company.  Additional risks
and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial
also may become important factors that affect our Company.
      
      Risks
Related to Being a Regulated Entity
      
      Reduction
in Medicaid, SCHIP and ABD funding could substantially reduce our
profitability.
      
      Most of
our revenues come from Medicaid, SCHIP and ABD premiums.  The base
premium rate paid by each state differs, depending on a combination of factors
such as defined upper payment limits, a member’s health status, age, gender,
county or region, benefit mix and member eligibility
categories.  Future levels of Medicaid, SCHIP and ABD funding and
premium rates may be affected by continuing government efforts to contain
healthcare costs and may further be affected by state and federal budgetary
constraints.  Additionally, state and federal entities may make
changes to the design of their Medicaid programs resulting in the cancellation
or modification of these programs.
      
      For
example, in August 2007, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or
CMS, published a final rule regarding the estimation and recovery of
improper payments made under Medicaid and SCHIP.  This rule requires a
CMS contractor to sample selected states each year to estimate improper payments
in Medicaid and SCHIP and create national and state specific error
rates.  States must provide information to measure improper payments
in Medicaid and SCHIP for managed care and fee-for-service.  Each
state will be selected for review once every three years for each
program.  States are required to repay CMS the federal share of any
overpayments identified.
      
        
        The
American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009, which was signed into law on
February 17, 2009, provides $87 billion in additional federal Medicaid funding
for states’ Medicaid expenditures between October 1, 2008 and December 31, 2010.
Under this Act, states meeting certain eligibility requirements will temporarily
receive additional money in the form of an increase in the federal medical
assistance percentage (FMAP). Thus, for a limited period of time, the share of
Medicaid costs that are paid for by the federal government will go up, and each
state’s share will go down.  We cannot predict whether states are, or will
remain, eligible to receive the additional federal Medicaid funding, or whether
the states will have sufficient funds for their Medicaid
programs.
      
       
      
        States
also periodically consider reducing or reallocating the amount of money they
spend for Medicaid, SCHIP, Foster Care and ABD.  In recent years, the
majority of states have implemented measures to restrict Medicaid, SCHIP, Foster
Care and ABD costs and eligibility.
         
      
      Changes
to Medicaid, SCHIP, Foster Care and ABD programs could reduce the number of
persons enrolled in or eligible for these programs, reduce the amount of
reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or healthcare
costs under these programs, all of which could have a negative impact on our
business.  We believe that reductions in Medicaid, SCHIP, Foster Care
and ABD payments could substantially reduce our
profitability.  Further, our contracts with the states are subject to
cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of
unavailability of state funds.
      
      If
SCHIP is not reauthorized or states face shortfalls, our business could
suffer.
      
      Federal
support for SCHIP has been authorized through 2013.  We cannot be
certain that SCHIP will be reauthorized when current funding expires in
2013, and if it is,
what changes might be made to the program following
reauthorization.  Thus, we cannot predict the impact that
reauthorization will have on our business.
      
      States
receive matching funds from the federal government to pay for their SCHIP
programs, which matching funds have a per state annual cap.  Because
of funding caps, there is a risk that these states could experience shortfalls
in future years, which could have an impact on our ability to receive amounts
owed to us from states in which we have SCHIP contracts.
      
      If
any of our state contracts are terminated or are not renewed, our business will
suffer.
      
      We
provide managed care programs and selected services to individuals receiving
benefits under federal assistance programs, including Medicaid, SCHIP and
ABD.  We provide those healthcare services under contracts with
regulatory entities in the areas in which we operate.  Our contracts
with various states are generally intended to run for one or two years and may
be extended for one or two additional years if the state or its agent elects to
do so.  Our current contracts are set to expire or renew between March
31, 2009 and December 31, 2010.  When our contracts expire, they may
be opened for bidding by competing healthcare providers.  There is no
guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended.  For
example, on August 25, 2006, we received notification from the Kansas Health
Policy Authority that FirstGuard Health Plan Kansas, Inc.’s contract with the
State would not be renewed or extended, and as a result, our contract ended on
December 31, 2006.  Further, our contracts with the states are subject
to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of
unavailability of state funds.  For example, the Indiana contract
under which we operate can be terminated by the State without cause. Our
contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the
standards set by state regulatory agencies.  If any of our contracts
are terminated, not renewed, renewed on less favorable terms, or not renewed on
a timely basis, our business will suffer, and our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows may be materially affected.
      
      If
we are unable to participate in SCHIP programs, our growth rate may be
limited.
       
      SCHIP is
a federal initiative designed to provide coverage for low-income children not
otherwise covered by Medicaid or other insurance programs.  The
programs vary significantly from state to state.  Participation in
SCHIP programs is an important part of our growth strategy.  If states
do not allow us to participate or if we fail to win bids to participate, our
growth strategy may be materially and adversely affected.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      Changes
in government regulations designed to protect the financial interests of
providers and members rather than our investors could force us to change how we
operate and could harm our business.
      
      Our
business is extensively regulated by the states in which we operate and by the
federal government.  The applicable laws and regulations are subject
to frequent change and generally are intended to benefit and protect the
financial interests of health plan providers and members rather than
investors.  The enactment of new laws and rules or changes to existing
laws and rules or the interpretation of such laws and rules could, among other
things:
      
      •      force
us to restructure our relationships with providers within our
network;
      •      require
us to implement additional or different programs and systems;
      •      mandate
minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenues;
      •      restrict
revenue and enrollment growth;
      •      require
us to develop plans to guard against the financial insolvency of our
providers;
      •      increase
our healthcare and administrative costs;
      •      impose
additional capital and reserve requirements; and
      •      increase
or change our liability to members in the event of malpractice by our
providers.
       
      For
example, Congress has previously considered various forms of patient protection
legislation commonly known as the Patients’ Bill of Rights and such legislation
may be proposed again.  We cannot predict the impact of any such
legislation, if adopted, on our business.
      
      Regulations
may decrease the profitability of our health plans.
      
      Certain
states have enacted regulations which require us to maintain a minimum health
benefits ratio, or establish limits on our profitability.  Other
states require us to meet certain performance and quality metrics in order to
receive our full contractual revenue.  In certain circumstances, our
plans may be required to pay a rebate to the state in the event profits exceed
established levels.  These regulatory requirements, changes in these
requirements or the adoption of similar requirements by other regulators may
limit our ability to increase our overall profits as a percentage of
revenues.  Certain states, including but not limited to Georgia,
Indiana, New Jersey, Texas and Wisconsin have implemented prompt-payment laws
and are enforcing penalty provisions for failure to pay claims in a timely
manner.  Failure to meet these requirements can result in financial
fines and penalties.  In addition, states may attempt to reduce their
contract premium rates if regulators perceive our health benefits ratio as too
low.  Any of these regulatory actions could harm our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.  Certain states also
impose marketing restrictions on us which may constrain our membership growth
and our ability to increase our revenues.
       
      We
face periodic reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with state
government agencies, and these audits could have adverse findings, which may
negatively impact our business.
      
      We
contract with various state governmental agencies to provide managed healthcare
services.  Pursuant to these contracts, we are subject to various
reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts
and applicable laws and regulations.  Any adverse review, audit or
investigation could result in:
      
      •      cancellation
of our contracts;
      •      refunding
of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our contracts;
      •      imposition
of fines, penalties and other sanctions on us;
      •      loss
of our right to participate in various markets;
      •      increased
difficulty in selling our products and services; and
      •      loss
of one or more of our licenses.
      
      Failure
to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal
penalties.
      
      Federal
and state governments have enacted fraud and abuse laws and other laws to
protect patients’ privacy and access to healthcare.  In some states,
we may be subject to regulation by more than one governmental authority, which
may impose overlapping or inconsistent regulations.  Violation of
these and other laws or regulations governing our operations or the operations
of our providers could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties,
the cancellation of our contracts to provide services, the suspension or
revocation of our licenses or our exclusion from participating in the Medicaid,
SCHIP, Foster Care and ABD programs.  If we were to become subject to
these penalties or exclusions as the result of our actions or omissions or our
inability to monitor the compliance of our providers, it would negatively affect
our ability to operate our business.
      
      The
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, broadened
the scope of fraud and abuse laws applicable to healthcare
companies.  HIPAA created civil penalties for, among other things,
billing for medically unnecessary goods or services.  HIPAA
established new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including
civil and, in some instances, criminal penalties for failure to comply with
specific standards relating to the privacy, security and electronic transmission
of most individually identifiable health information.  It is possible
that Congress may enact additional legislation in the future to increase
penalties and to create a private right of action under HIPAA, which could
entitle patients to seek monetary damages for violations of the privacy
rules.
       
      We
may incur significant costs as a result of compliance with government
regulations, and our management will be required to devote time to
compliance.
      
      Many
aspects of our business are affected by government laws and
regulations.  The issuance of new regulations, or judicial or
regulatory guidance regarding existing regulations, could require changes to
many of the procedures we currently use to conduct our business, which may lead
to additional costs that we have not yet identified.  We do not know
whether, or the extent to which, we will be able to recover from the states our
costs of complying with these new regulations.  The costs of any such
future compliance efforts could have a material adverse effect on our
business.  We have already expended significant time, effort and
financial resources to comply with the privacy and security requirements of
HIPAA.  We cannot predict whether states will enact stricter laws
governing the privacy and security of electronic health
information.  If any new requirements are enacted at the state or
federal level, compliance would likely require additional expenditures and
management time.
      
      In
addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently
implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, have
imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in
corporate governance practices.  Our management and other personnel
will continue to devote time to these compliance initiatives.
      
      The
Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective
internal control over financial reporting.  In particular, we must
perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over
financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our
internal control over our financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our
independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our
internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material
weaknesses.  Our compliance with Section 404 causes us to incur
substantial expense and management effort.  Moreover, if we are not
able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we or our independent
registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal
control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the
market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or
investigations by the NYSE, SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would
require additional financial and management resources.
      
      Changes
in healthcare law and benefits may reduce our profitability.
      
      Numerous
proposals relating to changes in healthcare law have been introduced, some of
which have been passed by Congress and the states in which we operate or may
operate in the future.  Changes in applicable laws and regulations are
continually being considered, and interpretations of existing laws and rules may
also change from time to time.  We are unable to predict what
regulatory changes may occur or what effect any particular change may have on
our business.  For example, these changes could reduce the number of
persons enrolled or eligible to enroll in Medicaid, reduce the reimbursement or
payment levels for medical services or reduce benefits included in Medicaid
coverage.  We are also unable to predict whether new laws or proposals
will favor or hinder the growth of managed healthcare in
general.  Legislation or regulations that require us to change our
current manner of operation, benefits provided or our contract arrangements may
seriously harm our operations and financial results.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          13
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      For
example, in August 2007 CMS issued guidance that imposes requirements on states
that cover children in families with incomes above 250% of the federal poverty
level.  Under these requirements, applicable states must provide
assurances to CMS that the state has enrolled at least 95% of the Medicaid and
SCHIP eligible children in the state who are in families with incomes below 200%
of the federal poverty level in Medicaid or SCHIP and that the number of
children insured through private employers has not decreased by more than two
percentage points over the prior five year period.  Two states in
which we have SCHIP contracts, Georgia and New Jersey, are subject to these
requirements.  If they are unable to meet these requirements, they
will be unable to continue to cover children in families with incomes above 250%
of the federal poverty level, which would likely decrease our membership in such
states.  Many states object to these requirements as unduly burdensome
and likely to result in a decrease in the number of children covered by SCHIP,
and some states, including New Jersey, are pursuing legal challenges against CMS
in relation to these requirements.  In the guidance, CMS stated that
it expected states to comply with the requirements within 12 months of the
issuance of the guidance.  However, in August 2008, a CMS spokesperson
stated that, for the time being, CMS would not take compliance action to enforce
this requirement.  Further, on February 4, 2009, President Obama
issued a memorandum to the Secretary of Health and Human Services requesting the
immediate withdrawal of the August 2007 guidance and implementation of SCHIP
without the requirements imposed by the August 2007 guidance.  We cannot
predict whether legal challenges to August 2007 guidance will be successful or
whether these requirements will be rescinded by CMS.  We cannot
predict the impact these requirements will have on our revenue if changes are
implemented in states in which we serve SCHIP beneficiaries.
       
      If
a state fails to renew a required federal waiver for mandated Medicaid
enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in
that state will likely decrease.
       
      States
may administer Medicaid managed care programs pursuant to demonstration programs
or required waivers of federal Medicaid standards.  Waivers and
demonstration programs are generally approved for two year periods and can be
renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies.  We have no control
over this renewal process.  If a state does not renew such a waiver or
demonstration program or the Federal government denies a state’s application for
renewal, membership in our health plan in the state could decrease and our
business could suffer.
       
      Changes
in federal funding mechanisms may reduce our profitability.
      
      The Bush
administration previously proposed a major long-term change in the way Medicaid
and SCHIP are funded.  The proposal, if adopted, would allow states to
elect to receive, instead of federal matching funds, combined Medicaid-SCHIP
“allotments” for acute and long-term healthcare for low-income, uninsured
persons.  Participating states would be given flexibility in designing
their own health insurance programs, subject to federally-mandated minimum
coverage requirements.  It is uncertain whether this proposal will be
enacted.  Accordingly, it is unknown whether or how many states might
elect to participate or how their participation may affect the net amount of
funding available for Medicaid and SCHIP programs.  If such a proposal
is adopted and decreases the number of persons enrolled in Medicaid or SCHIP in
the states in which we operate or reduces the volume of healthcare services
provided, our growth, operations and financial performance could be adversely
affected.
      
      On May
29, 2007, CMS issued a final rule that would reduce states’ use of
intergovernmental transfers for the states’ share of Medicaid program
funding.  By restricting the use of intergovernmental transfers, this
rule may restrict some states’ funding for Medicaid, which could adversely
affect our growth, operations and financial performance.  On May 25,
2007, President Bush signed an Iraq war supplemental spending bill that included
a one-year moratorium on the effectiveness of the final rule.  On June
30, 2008, President Bush signed another Iraq war supplemental spending bill that
extends the moratorium on the effectiveness of the final rule until April 1,
2009.  We cannot predict whether the rule will ever be implemented and
if it is, what impact it will have on our business.
       
      Recent
legislative changes in the Medicare program may also affect our
business.  For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement
and Modernization Act of 2003 revised cost-sharing requirements for some
beneficiaries and requires states to reimburse the federal Medicare program for
costs of prescription drug coverage provided to beneficiaries who are enrolled
simultaneously in both the Medicaid and Medicare programs.  In its
fiscal year 2009 budget proposal, the Bush administration has also proposed to
further reduce total federal funding for the Medicaid program by $17.4 billion
over the next five years.  These changes may reduce the availability
of funding for some states’ Medicaid programs, which could adversely affect our
growth, operations and financial performance.  In addition, the
Medicare prescription drug benefit interrupted the distribution of prescription
drugs to many beneficiaries simultaneously enrolled in both Medicaid and
Medicare, prompting several states to pay for prescription drugs on an
unbudgeted, emergency basis without any assurance of receiving reimbursement
from the federal Medicaid program.  These expenses may cause some
states to divert funds originally intended for other Medicaid services which
could adversely affect our growth, operations and financial
performance.
       
      If
state regulatory agencies require a statutory capital level higher than the
state regulations, we may be required to make additional capital
contributions.
      
      Our
operations are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiaries, which include
health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, and managed care organizations, or
MCOs.  HMOs and MCOs are subject to state regulations that, among
other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, as
defined by each state.  Additionally, state regulatory agencies may
require, at their discretion, individual HMOs to maintain statutory capital
levels higher than the state regulations.  If this were to occur to
one of our subsidiaries, we may be required to make additional capital
contributions to the affected subsidiary.  Any additional capital
contribution made to one of the affected subsidiaries could have a material
adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to grow.
       
      If
state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our
subsidiaries to us, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our business
strategy.
      
      We
principally operate through our health plan subsidiaries.  If funds
normally available to us become limited in the future, we may need to rely on
dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries to fund our
operations.  These subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit
the amount of dividends and distributions that can be paid to us without prior
approval of, or notification to, state regulators.  If these
regulators were to deny our subsidiaries’ request to pay dividends to us, the
funds available to us would be limited, which could harm our ability to
implement our business strategy.
      
      Risks
Related to Our Business
      
      Ineffectiveness
of state-operated systems and subcontractors could adversely affect our
business.
      
      Our
health plans rely on other state-operated systems or sub-contractors to qualify,
solicit, educate and assign eligible members into the health
plans.  The effectiveness of these state operations and
sub-contractors can have a material effect on a health plan’s enrollment in a
particular month or over an extended period.  When a state implements
new programs to determine eligibility, new processes to assign or enroll
eligible members into health plans, or chooses new contractors, there is an
increased potential for an unanticipated impact on the overall number of members
assigned into the health plans.
       
      Failure
to accurately predict our medical expenses could negatively affect our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.
      
      Our
medical expense includes claims reported but not yet paid, or inventory,
estimates for claims incurred but not reported, or IBNR, and estimates for the
costs necessary to process unpaid claims at the end of each
period.  Our development of the medical claims liability estimate is a
continuous process which we monitor and refine on a monthly basis as claims
receipts and payment information becomes available.  As more complete
information becomes available, we adjust the amount of the estimate, and include
the changes in estimates in medical expense in the period in which the changes
are identified.
      
      We can
not be sure that our medical claims liability estimates are adequate or that
adjustments to those estimates will not unfavorably impact our results of
operations.  For example, in the three months ended June 30, 2006 we
adjusted IBNR by $9.7 million for adverse medical costs development from the
first quarter of 2006.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          14
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      Additionally,
when we commence operations in a new state or region, we have limited
information with which to estimate our medical claims liability.  For
example, we commenced operations in South Carolina in December 2007 and began
our Foster Care program in Texas in April 2008.  For a period of time
after the inception of business in these states, we based our estimates on state
provided historical actuarial data and limited actual incurred and received
claims.  From time to time in the past, our actual results have varied
from our estimates, particularly in times of significant changes in the number
of our members.  The accuracy of our medical claims liability estimate
may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further harming
our results.
      
      Receipt
of inadequate or significantly delayed premiums would negatively affect our
revenues and profitability.
      
      Our
premium revenues consist of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental
payments for other services such as maternity deliveries.  These
premiums are fixed by contract, and we are obligated during the contract periods
to provide healthcare services as established by the state
governments.  We use a large portion of our revenues to pay the costs
of healthcare services delivered to our members.  If premiums do not
increase when expenses related to medical services rise, our earnings will be
affected negatively.  In addition, our actual medical services costs
may exceed our estimates, which would cause our health benefits ratio, or our
expenses related to medical services as a percentage of premium revenue, to
increase and our profits to decline.  In addition, it is possible for
a state to increase the rates payable to the hospitals without granting a
corresponding increase in premiums to us.  If this were to occur in
one or more of the states in which we operate, our profitability would be
harmed.  In addition, if there is a significant delay in our receipt
of premiums to offset previously incurred health benefits costs, our earnings
could be negatively impacted.
      
      In some
instances, our base premiums are subject to an adjustment, or risk score, based
on the acuity of our membership.  Generally, the risk score is
determined by the State analyzing encounter submissions of processed claims data
to determine the acuity of our membership relative to the entire state’s
Medicaid membership.  The risk score is dependent on several factors
including our providers’ completeness and quality of claims submission, our
processing of the claim, submission of the processed claims in the form of
encounters to the states’ encounter systems and the states’ acceptance and
analysis of the encounter data.  If the risk scores assigned to our
premiums that are risk adjusted are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect
the acuity of our membership, our earnings will be affected
negatively.
      
      Failure
to effectively manage our medical costs or related administrative costs would
reduce our profitability.
      
      Our
profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and
effectively manage expenses related to health benefits.  We have less
control over the costs related to medical services than we do over our general
and administrative expenses.  Because of the narrow margins of our
health plan business, relatively small changes in our health benefits ratio can
create significant changes in our financial results.  Changes in
healthcare regulations and practices, the level of use of healthcare services,
hospital costs, pharmaceutical costs, major epidemics, new medical technologies
and other external factors, including general economic conditions such as
inflation levels, are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to predict
and effectively control the costs of providing health benefits.  We
may not be able to manage costs effectively in the future.  If our
costs related to health benefits increase, our profits could be reduced or we
may not remain profitable.
       
      Our investment
portfolio may suffer losses from reductions in market interest rates and changes
in market conditions which could materially and adversely affect our results of
operations or liquidity.
       
      As of
December 31, 2008, we had $480.4 million in cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments and $341.7 million of long-term investments and
restricted deposits.  We maintain an investment portfolio of cash
equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities
which may include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds,
municipal bonds, corporate bonds, instruments of the U.S. Treasury, insurance
contracts and equity securities.  These investments are subject to
general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate
risks.  Substantially all of these securities are subject to interest
rate and credit risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase or one
of the issuers’ credit ratings is reduced.  As a result, we may
experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity of our investments, which
may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and
financial condition.  For example, in the third quarter of 2008, we
recorded a loss on investments of approximately $4.5 million due to a loss in a
money market fund.
       
      Difficulties
in executing our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our
business.
      
      Historically,
the acquisition of Medicaid and specialty services businesses, contract rights
and related assets of other health plans both in our existing service areas and
in new markets has accounted for a significant amount of our
growth.  Many of the other potential purchasers have greater financial
resources than we have.  In addition, many of the sellers are
interested either in (a) selling, along with their Medicaid assets, other assets
in which we do not have an interest or (b) selling their companies, including
their liabilities, as opposed to the assets of their ongoing
businesses.
      
      We
generally are required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state
agencies when making acquisitions.  In the case of an acquisition of a
business located in a state in which we do not currently operate, we would be
required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that
state.  In addition, even if we already operate in a state in which we
acquire a new business, we would be required to obtain additional regulatory
approval if the acquisition would result in our operating in an area of the
state in which we did not operate previously, and we could be required to
renegotiate provider contracts of the acquired business.  We cannot
provide any assurance that we would be able to comply with these regulatory
requirements for an acquisition in a timely manner, or at all.  In
deciding whether to approve a proposed acquisition, state regulators may
consider a number of factors outside our control, including giving preference to
competing offers made by locally owned entities or by not-for-profit
entities.
      
      We also
may be unable to obtain sufficient additional capital resources for future
acquisitions.  If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition
strategy, our future growth will suffer and our results of operations could be
harmed.
      
      Execution
of our growth strategy may increase costs or liabilities, or create disruptions
in our business.
      
      We pursue
acquisitions of other companies or businesses from time to
time.  Although we review the records of companies or businesses we
plan to acquire, even an in-depth review of records may not reveal existing or
potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to
assess fully its capabilities and deficiencies.  As a result, we may
assume unanticipated liabilities or adverse operating conditions, or an
acquisition may not perform as well as expected.  We face the risk
that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures or
indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses, or the capital expenditures
needed to develop such businesses.  We also face the risk that we will
not be able to integrate acquisitions into our existing operations effectively
without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial
problems.  Integration may be hindered by, among other things,
differing procedures, including internal controls, business practices and
technology systems.  We may need to divert more management resources
to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue
other profitable activities.
      
      In
addition to the difficulties we may face in identifying and consummating
acquisitions, we will also be required to integrate and consolidate any acquired
business or assets with our existing operations.  This may include the
integration of:
      
      •      additional
personnel who are not familiar with our operations and corporate
culture;
      •      provider
networks that may operate on different terms than our existing
networks;
      •      existing
members, who may decide to switch to another healthcare plan; and
      •      disparate
administrative, accounting and finance, and information systems.
       
      Additionally,
our growth strategy includes start-up operations in new markets or new products
in existing markets.  We may incur significant expenses prior to
commencement of operations and the receipt of revenue.  As a result,
these start-up operations may decrease our profitability.  In the
event we pursue any opportunity to diversify our business internationally, we
would become subject to additional risks, including, but not limited to,
political risk, an unfamiliar regulatory regime, currency exchange risk and
exchange controls, cultural and language differences, foreign tax issues, and
different labor laws and practices.
      
      Accordingly,
we may be unable to identify, consummate and integrate future acquisitions or
start-up operations successfully or operate acquired or new businesses
profitably.
      
      Acquisitions
of unfamiliar new businesses could negatively impact our business.
      
      We are
subject to the expenditures and risks associated with entering into any new line
of business.  Our failure to properly manage these expenditures and
risks could have a negative impact on our overall business.  For
example, effective July 2008, we completed the previously announced acquisition
of Celtic Group, Inc., the parent company of Celtic Insurance Company, or
Celtic.  Celtic is a national individual health insurance provider
that provides health insurance to individual customers and their
families.  While we believe that the addition of Celtic will be
complementary to our business, we have not previously operated in the individual
health care industry.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          15
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      If
competing managed care programs are unwilling to purchase specialty services
from us, we may not be able to successfully implement our strategy of
diversifying our business lines.
      
      We are
seeking to diversify our business lines into areas that complement our Medicaid
business in order to grow our revenue stream and balance our dependence on
Medicaid risk reimbursement.  In order to diversify our business, we
must succeed in selling the services of our specialty subsidiaries not only to
our managed care plans, but to programs operated by
third-parties.  Some of these third-party programs may compete with us
in some markets, and they therefore may be unwilling to purchase specialty
services from us.  In any event, the offering of these services will
require marketing activities that differ significantly from the manner in which
we seek to increase revenues from our Medicaid programs.  Our
inability to market specialty services to other programs may impair our ability
to execute our business strategy.
       
      Failure
to achieve timely profitability in any business would negatively affect our
results of operations.
      
      Start-up
costs associated with a new business can be substantial.  For example,
in order to obtain a certificate of authority in most jurisdictions, we must
first establish a provider network, have systems in place and demonstrate our
ability to obtain a state contract and process claims.  If we were
unsuccessful in obtaining the necessary license, winning the bid to provide
service or attracting members in numbers sufficient to cover our costs, any new
business of ours would fail.  We also could be obligated by the state
to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient
revenue to cover our ongoing costs or recover start-up costs.  The
expenses associated with starting up a new business could have a significant
impact on our results of operations if we are unable to achieve profitable
operations in a timely fashion.
      
      We
derive a majority of our premium revenues from operations in a small number of
states, and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would be
materially affected by a decrease in premium revenues or profitability in any
one of those states.
      
      Operations
in a few states have accounted for most of our premium revenues to
date.  If we were unable to continue to operate in any of our current
states or if our current operations in any portion of one of those states were
significantly curtailed, our revenues could decrease materially.  For
example, our Medicaid contract with Kansas, which terminated December 31, 2006,
together with our Medicaid contract with Missouri, accounted for $317.0 million
in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006.  Our reliance on
operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and
profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly depending on legislative or
other governmental or regulatory actions and decisions, economic conditions and
similar factors in those states.  Our inability to continue to operate
in any of the states in which we operate would harm our business.
       
      Competition
may limit our ability to increase penetration of the markets that we
serve.
      
      We
compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider
network, benefits provided and quality of service.  We compete with
numerous types of competitors, including other health plans and traditional
state Medicaid programs that reimburse providers as care is
provided.  Subject to limited exceptions by federally approved state
applications, the federal government requires that there be choices for Medicaid
recipients among managed care programs.  Voluntary programs and
mandated competition may limit our ability to increase our market
share.
      
      Some of
the health plans with which we compete have greater financial and other
resources and offer a broader scope of products than we do.  In
addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the
managed care industry, as well as in industries that act as suppliers to us,
such as the hospital, physician, pharmaceutical, medical device and health
information systems businesses.  To the extent that competition
intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase
members and providers, or maintain or increase our revenue growth, pricing
flexibility and control over medical cost trends may be adversely
affected.
      
      In
addition, in order to increase our membership in the markets we currently serve,
we believe that we must continue to develop and implement community-specific
products, alliances with key providers and localized outreach and educational
programs.  If we are unable to develop and implement these
initiatives, or if our competitors are more successful than we are in doing so,
we may not be able to further penetrate our existing markets.
       
      If
we are unable to maintain relationships with our provider networks, our
profitability may be harmed.
      
      Our
profitability depends, in large part, upon our ability to contract favorably
with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers.  Our
provider arrangements with our primary care physicians, specialists and
hospitals generally may be cancelled by either party without cause upon 90 to
120 days prior written notice.  We cannot provide any assurance that
we will be able to continue to renew our existing contracts or enter into new
contracts enabling us to service our members profitably.
      
      From time
to time providers assert or threaten to assert claims seeking to terminate
non-cancelable agreements due to alleged actions or inactions by
us.  Even if these allegations represent attempts to avoid or
renegotiate contractual terms that have become economically disadvantageous to
the providers, it is possible that in the future a provider may pursue such a
claim successfully.  In addition, we are aware that other managed care
organizations have been subject to class action suits by physicians with respect
to claim payment procedures, and we may be subject to similar
claims.  Regardless of whether any claims brought against us are
successful or have merit, they will still be time-consuming and costly and could
distract our management’s attention.  As a result, we may incur
significant expenses and may be unable to operate our business
effectively.
      
      We will
be required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new
markets.  We may be unable to enter into agreements with providers in
new markets on a timely basis or under favorable terms.  If we are
unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider
contracts timely or on favorable terms, our profitability will be
harmed.
       
      We
may be unable to attract and retain key personnel.
      
      We are
highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to
operate and expand our business.  If we lose one or more members of
our senior management team, including our chief executive officer, Michael F.
Neidorff, who has been instrumental in developing our business strategy and
forging our business relationships, our business and financial position, results
of operations or cash flows could be harmed.  Our ability to replace
any departed members of our senior management or other key employees may be
difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number
of individuals in the Medicaid managed care and specialty services industry with
the breadth of skills and experience required to operate and successfully expand
a business such as ours.  Competition to hire from this limited pool
is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these
personnel.
      
      Negative
publicity regarding the managed care industry may harm our business and
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
      
      The
managed care industry has received negative publicity.  This publicity
has led to increased legislation, regulation, review of industry practices and
private litigation in the commercial sector.  These factors may
adversely affect our ability to market our services, require us to change our
services, and increase the regulatory burdens under which we
operate.  Any of these factors may increase the costs of doing
business and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.
      
      Claims
relating to medical malpractice could cause us to incur significant
expenses.
      
      Our
providers and employees involved in medical care decisions may be subject to
medical malpractice claims.  In addition, some states, including
Texas, have adopted legislation that permits managed care organizations to be
held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage
determinations.  Claims of this nature, if successful, could result in
substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the
limits of any applicable insurance coverage.  Therefore, successful
malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers or our employees
could adversely affect our financial condition and
profitability.  Even if any claims brought against us are unsuccessful
or without merit, they would still be time consuming and costly and could
distract our management’s attention.  As a result, we may incur
significant expenses and may be unable to operate our business
effectively.
      
      Loss
of providers due to increased insurance costs could adversely affect our
business.
      
      Our
providers routinely purchase insurance to help protect themselves against
medical malpractice claims.  In recent years, the costs of maintaining
commercially reasonable levels of such insurance have increased dramatically,
and these costs are expected to increase to even greater levels in the
future.  As a result of the level of these costs, providers may decide
to leave the practice of medicine or to limit their practice to certain areas,
which may not address the needs of Medicaid participants.  We rely on
retaining a sufficient number of providers in order to maintain a certain level
of service.  If a significant number of our providers exit our
provider networks or the practice of medicine generally, we may be unable to
replace them in a timely manner, if at all, and our business could be adversely
affected.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          16
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      Growth
in the number of Medicaid-eligible persons during economic downturns could cause
our financial position, results of operations or cash flows to suffer if state
and federal budgets decrease or do not increase.
      
      Less
favorable economic conditions may cause our membership to increase as more
people become eligible to receive Medicaid benefits.  During such
economic downturns, however, state and federal budgets could decrease, causing
states to attempt to cut healthcare programs, benefits and rates.  We
cannot predict the impact of changes in the United States economic environment
or other economic or political events, including acts of terrorism or related
military action, on federal or state funding of healthcare programs or on the
size of the population eligible for the programs we operate.  If
federal funding decreases or remains unchanged while our membership increases,
our results of operations will suffer.
       
      Growth
in the number of Medicaid-eligible persons may be countercyclical, which could
cause our financial position, results of operations or cash flows to suffer when
general economic conditions are improving.
      
      Historically,
the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits has increased more
rapidly during periods of rising unemployment, corresponding to less favorable
general economic conditions.  Conversely, this number may grow more
slowly or even decline if economic conditions improve.  Therefore,
improvements in general economic conditions may cause our membership levels to
decrease, thereby causing our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows to suffer, which could lead to decreases in our stock price during periods
in which stock prices in general are increasing.
       
      If
we are unable to integrate and manage our information systems effectively, our
operations could be disrupted.
      
      Our
operations depend significantly on effective information systems.  The
information gathered and processed by our information systems assists us in,
among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing
provider claims, and providing data to our regulators.  Our providers
also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims
status and other information.
      
      Our
information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading
and enhancement to meet our operational needs and regulatory
requirements.  Moreover, our acquisition activity requires frequent
transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information
systems.  We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’
capabilities.  If we experience difficulties with the transition to or
from information systems or are unable to properly maintain or expand our
information systems, we could suffer, among other things, from operational
disruptions, loss of existing members and difficulty in attracting new members,
regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses.  In
addition, our ability to integrate and manage our information systems may be
impaired as the result of events outside our control, including acts of nature,
such as earthquakes or fires, or acts of terrorists.
      
      We
rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by state
governments.  Inaccuracies in those lists would negatively affect our
results of operations.
      
      Premium
payments to us are based upon eligibility lists produced by state
governments.  From time to time, states require us to reimburse them
for premiums paid to us based on an eligibility list that a state later
discovers contains individuals who are not in fact eligible for a government
sponsored program or are eligible for a different premium category or a
different program.  Alternatively, a state could fail to pay us for
members for whom we are entitled to payment.  Our results of
operations would be adversely affected as a result of such reimbursement to the
state if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup
such payments from the providers.
       
      We
may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance.
      
      We
maintain liability insurance, subject to limits and deductibles, for claims that
could result from providing or failing to provide managed care and related
services.  These claims could be substantial.  We believe
that our present insurance coverage and reserves are adequate to cover currently
estimated exposures.  We cannot provide any assurance that we will be
able to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future at acceptable costs or
that we will not incur significant liabilities in excess of policy
limits.
      
      From
time to time, we may become involved in costly and time-consuming litigation and
other regulatory proceedings, which require significant attention from our
management.
      
      We are a
defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our
business.  Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and
regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any
such proceedings.  An unfavorable outcome could have a material
adverse impact on our business and financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.  In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation
or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are costly and time
consuming and require significant attention from our
management.  For example, we have in the past, or may be subject to in
the future, securities class action lawsuits, IRS examinations or similar
regulatory actions.  Any such matters could harm our business and
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
      
      If
we are unable to complete the previously announced sale of certain of assets of
our New Jersey health plan in a timely manner, our business could
suffer.
      
      On
November 20, 2008, we announced that we had entered into an agreement with
AMERIGROUP Corporation, or AMERIGROUP, to sell certain assets of our subsidiary
University Health Plan, Inc. in the State of New Jersey to
AMERIGROUP.  The agreement contains a number of conditions to closing,
including (i) the approval of regulators in New Jersey, (ii) the lack of a
material adverse effect, and (iii) other customary conditions.  On
December 31, 2008, we announced that we had received a termination notice from
AMERIGROUP relating to the New Jersey transaction.  As we have
previously stated, we do not believe that there is cause to terminate the New
Jersey agreement and are prepared to pursue all available means to bring this
transaction to closure.  To this end, on January 8, 2009, we announced
that, in response to AMERIGROUP’s purported termination of this agreement, we
had filed a lawsuit against AMERIGROUP in the Superior Court of New Jersey
Chancery Division.  Nonetheless, if we are unable to close the New
Jersey transaction in a timely manner, our results of operations could be
negatively impacted.
      
      Risks
related to our corporate headquarters’ project could harm our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.
      
      In 2008,
our capital expenditures included $27.0 million for land and fees associated
with the construction of a real estate development on the property adjoining our
corporate office, which we believe is necessary to accommodate our growing
business.  We are currently negotiating our involvement as a joint
venture partner in an entity that will develop the properties.  Due to
the global financial crisis and disruptions in the capital and credit markets,
we may be unable to complete this project under economically feasible
terms.  If the Company is unable to complete the development or if the
Company delays or abandons the real estate project, it may have an adverse
impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.   For example, in 2007 we abandoned a previously planned
redevelopment project and recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $7.2
million.  Our
operations and efficiency could also be impacted if the development is not
completed as there is limited office space for us to expand in the market near
our existing headquarters as our business continues to grow.
      
      Item 1B