Item 1A of this report.


 


    You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking
    statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the
    date of the particular statement.



    
    ii



Table of Contents



 



    PART I



 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    OUR
    BUSINESS


 



    Overview


 


    We are a public utility holding company whose indirect wholly
    owned subsidiaries include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC (CenterPoint Houston),
    which engages in the electric transmission and distribution
    business in a
    5,000-square
    mile area of the Texas Gulf Coast that includes Houston; and



 


     
        • 

    
    CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. (CERC Corp., and, together
    with its subsidiaries, CERC), which owns and operates natural
    gas distribution systems in six states. Wholly owned
    subsidiaries of CERC Corp. own interstate natural gas pipelines
    and gas gathering systems and provide various ancillary
    services. Another wholly owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. offers
    variable and fixed-price physical natural gas supplies primarily
    to commercial and industrial customers and electric and gas
    utilities.





 


    Prior to repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
    1935 (1935 Act), effective February 8, 2006, we were a
    registered public utility holding company under that act.


 


    Our reportable business segments are Electric
    Transmission & Distribution, Natural Gas Distribution,
    Competitive Natural Gas Sales and Services, Interstate
    Pipelines, Field Services and Other Operations. Prior to the
    fourth quarter of 2006, our Interstate Pipelines business
    segment and our Field Services business segment were reported as
    a single business segment called Pipelines and Field Services.
    Information from prior periods has been recast to reflect this
    new presentation. The operations of Texas Genco Holdings, Inc.
    (Texas Genco), formerly our majority owned electric generating
    subsidiary, the sale of which was completed in April 2005, are
    presented as discontinued operations. From time to time, we
    consider the acquisition or the disposition of assets or
    businesses.


 


    Our principal executive offices are located at 1111 Louisiana,
    Houston, Texas 77002 (telephone number:
    713-207-1111).


 


    We make available free of charge on our Internet website our
    annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically
    file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC). Additionally, we make available free
    of charge on our Internet website:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior
    Financial Officers;



 


     
        • 

    
    our Ethics and Compliance Code;



 


     
        • 

    
    our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the charters of our audit, compensation, finance and governance
    committees.





 


    Any shareholder who so requests may obtain a printed copy of any
    of these documents from us. Changes in or waivers of our Code of
    Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial
    Officers and waivers of our Ethics and Compliance Code for
    directors or executive officers will be posted on our Internet
    website within five business days of such change or waiver and
    maintained for at least 12 months or reported on
    Item 5.05 of
    Form 8-K.
    Our website address is www.centerpointenergy.com.
    Except to the extent explicitly stated herein, documents and
    information on our website are not incorporated by reference
    herein.


 



    Electric
    Transmission & Distribution


 


    In 1999, the Texas legislature adopted the Texas Electric Choice
    Plan (Texas electric restructuring law) that led to the
    restructuring of integrated electric utilities operating within
    Texas. Pursuant to that legislation, integrated electric
    utilities operating within the Electric Reliability Council of
    Texas, Inc. (ERCOT) were required to separate



    
    1



Table of Contents




    their integrated operations into separate retail sales, power
    generation and transmission and distribution companies. The
    legislation also required that the prices for wholesale
    generation and retail electric sales be unregulated, but rates
    and services by companies providing transmission and
    distribution service, such as CenterPoint Houston, would
    continue to be rate regulated by the Public Utility Commission
    of Texas (Texas Utility Commission). The legislation provided
    for a transition period to move to the new market structure and
    provided a
    true-up
    mechanism for the formerly integrated electric utilities to
    recover stranded and certain other costs resulting from the
    transition to competition. Those costs are recoverable after
    approval by the Texas Utility Commission either through the
    issuance of securitization bonds or through the implementation
    of a competition transition charge (CTC) as a rider to the
    utility’s tariff.


 


    CenterPoint Houston is the only business of CenterPoint Energy
    that continues to engage in electric utility operations. It is a
    transmission and distribution electric utility that operates
    wholly within the state of Texas. Neither CenterPoint Houston
    nor any other subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy makes sales of
    electric energy at retail or wholesale or owns or operates any
    electric generating facilities.


 



    Electric
    Transmission


 


    On behalf of retail electric providers (REPs), CenterPoint
    Houston delivers electricity from power plants to substations,
    from one substation to another and to retail electric customers
    taking power above 69 kilovolts (kV) in locations throughout the
    control area managed by ERCOT. CenterPoint Houston provides
    transmission services under tariffs approved by the Texas
    Utility Commission.


 



    Electric
    Distribution


 


    In ERCOT, end users purchase their electricity directly from
    certificated REPs. CenterPoint Houston delivers electricity for
    REPs in its certificated service area by carrying lower-voltage
    power from the substation to the retail electric customer.
    CenterPoint Houston’s distribution network receives
    electricity from the transmission grid through power
    distribution substations and delivers electricity to end users
    through distribution feeders. CenterPoint Houston’s
    operations include construction and maintenance of electric
    transmission and distribution facilities, metering services,
    outage response services and call center operations. CenterPoint
    Houston provides distribution services under tariffs approved by
    the Texas Utility Commission. Texas Utility Commission rules and
    market protocols govern the commercial operations of
    distribution companies and other market participants.


 



    ERCOT
    Market Framework


 


    CenterPoint Houston is a member of ERCOT. ERCOT serves as the
    regional reliability coordinating council for member electric
    power systems in Texas. ERCOT membership is open to consumer
    groups, investor and municipally owned electric utilities, rural
    electric cooperatives, independent generators, power marketers
    and REPs. The ERCOT market includes much of the State of Texas,
    other than a portion of the panhandle, a portion of the eastern
    part of the state bordering Louisiana and the area in and around
    El Paso. The ERCOT market represents approximately 85% of
    the demand for power in Texas and is one of the nation’s
    largest power markets. The ERCOT market includes an aggregate
    net generating capacity of approximately 70,500 megawatts (MW).
    There are only limited direct current interconnections between
    the ERCOT market and other power markets in the
    United States.


 


    The ERCOT market operates under the reliability standards set by
    the North American Electric Reliability Council. The Texas
    Utility Commission has primary jurisdiction over the ERCOT
    market to ensure the adequacy and reliability of electricity
    supply across the state’s main interconnected power
    transmission grid. The ERCOT independent system operator (ERCOT
    ISO) is responsible for maintaining reliable operations of the
    bulk electric power supply system in the ERCOT market. Its
    responsibilities include ensuring that electricity production
    and delivery are accurately accounted for among the generation
    resources and wholesale buyers and sellers. Unlike certain other
    regional power markets, the ERCOT market is not a centrally
    dispatched power pool, and the ERCOT ISO does not procure energy
    on behalf of its members other than to maintain the reliable
    operations of the transmission system. Members who sell and
    purchase power are responsible for contracting sales and
    purchases of power bilaterally. The ERCOT ISO also serves as
    agent for procuring ancillary services for those members who
    elect not to provide their own ancillary services.



    
    2



Table of Contents



 


    CenterPoint Houston’s electric transmission business, along
    with those of other owners of transmission facilities in Texas,
    supports the operation of the ERCOT ISO. The transmission
    business has planning, design, construction, operation and
    maintenance responsibility for the portion of the transmission
    grid and for the load-serving substations it owns, primarily
    within its certificated area. We participate with the ERCOT ISO
    and other ERCOT utilities to plan, design, obtain regulatory
    approval for and construct new transmission lines necessary to
    increase bulk power transfer capability and to remove existing
    constraints on the ERCOT transmission grid.


 



    True-Up
    Proceeding


 


    The Texas electric restructuring law substantially amended the
    regulatory structure governing electric utilities in order to
    allow retail competition for electric customers beginning in
    January 2002. The Texas electric restructuring law required the
    Texas Utility Commission to conduct a
    “true-up”
    proceeding to determine CenterPoint Houston’s stranded
    costs and certain other costs resulting from the transition to a
    competitive retail electric market and to provide for its
    recovery of those costs.


 


    In March 2004, CenterPoint Houston filed its
    true-up
    application with the Texas Utility Commission, requesting
    recovery of $3.7 billion, excluding interest, as allowed
    under the Texas electric restructuring law. In December 2004,
    the Texas Utility Commission issued its final order
    (True-Up
    Order) allowing CenterPoint Houston to recover a
    true-up
    balance of approximately $2.3 billion, which included
    interest through August 31, 2004, and providing for
    adjustment of the amount to be recovered to include interest on
    the balance until recovery, the principal portion of additional
    excess mitigation credits returned to customers after
    August 31, 2004 and certain other matters. CenterPoint
    Houston and other parties filed appeals of the
    True-Up
    Order to a district court in Travis County, Texas. In August
    2005, the court issued its final judgment on the various
    appeals. In its judgment, the court affirmed most aspects of the
    True-Up
    Order, but reversed two of the Texas Utility Commission’s
    rulings. The judgment would have the effect of restoring
    approximately $650 million, plus interest, of the
    $1.7 billion the Texas Utility Commission had disallowed
    from CenterPoint Houston’s initial request. CenterPoint
    Houston and other parties appealed the district court’s
    judgment. Oral arguments before the Texas 3rd Court of
    Appeals were held in January 2007, but a decision is not
    expected for several months. No amounts related to the district
    court’s judgment have been recorded in our consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    Among the issues raised in CenterPoint Houston’s appeal of
    the True-Up
    Order is the Texas Utility Commission’s reduction of
    CenterPoint Houston’s stranded cost recovery by
    approximately $146 million for the present value of certain
    deferred tax benefits associated with its former electric
    generation assets. Such reduction was considered in our
    recording of an after-tax extraordinary loss of
    $977 million in the last half of 2004. We believe that the
    Texas Utility Commission based its order on proposed regulations
    issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in March 2003
    related to those tax benefits. Those proposed regulations would
    have allowed utilities owning assets that were deregulated
    before March 4, 2003 to make a retroactive election to pass
    the benefits of Accumulated Deferred Investment Tax Credits
    (ADITC) and Excess Deferred Federal Income Taxes (EDFIT) back to
    customers. However, in December 2005, the IRS withdrew those
    proposed normalization regulations and issued new proposed
    regulations that do not include the provision allowing a
    retroactive election to pass the tax benefits back to customers.
    In a May 2006 Private Letter Ruling (PLR) issued to a Texas
    utility on facts similar to CenterPoint Houston’s, the IRS,
    without referencing its proposed regulations, ruled that a
    normalization violation would occur if ADITC and EDFIT were
    required to be returned to customers. CenterPoint Houston has
    requested a PLR asking the IRS whether the Texas Utility
    Commission’s order reducing CenterPoint Houston’s
    stranded cost recovery by $146 million for ADITC and EDFIT
    would cause a normalization violation. If the IRS determines
    that such reduction would cause a normalization violation with
    respect to the ADITC and the Texas Utility Commission’s
    order relating to such reduction is not reversed or otherwise
    modified, the IRS could require us to pay an amount equal to
    CenterPoint Houston’s unamortized ADITC balance as of the
    date that the normalization violation is deemed to have
    occurred. In addition, if a normalization violation with respect
    to EDFIT is deemed to have occurred and the Texas Utility
    Commission’s order relating to such reduction is not
    reversed or otherwise modified, the IRS could deny CenterPoint
    Houston the ability to elect accelerated tax depreciation
    benefits beginning in the taxable year that the normalization
    violation is deemed to have occurred. If a normalization
    violation should ultimately be found to exist, it could have a
    material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. However, we and CenterPoint Houston
    are vigorously pursuing the appeal of



    
    3



Table of Contents




    this issue and will seek other relief from the Texas Utility
    Commission to avoid a normalization violation. The Texas Utility
    Commission has not previously required a company subject to its
    jurisdiction to take action that would result in a normalization
    violation.


 



    Securitization


 


    Pursuant to a financing order issued by the Texas Utility
    Commission in March 2005 and affirmed in August 2005 by a Travis
    County district court, in December 2005, a subsidiary of
    CenterPoint Houston issued $1.85 billion in transition
    bonds with interest rates ranging from 4.84 percent to
    5.30 percent and final maturity dates ranging from February
    2011 to August 2020. Through issuance of the transition bonds,
    CenterPoint Houston recovered approximately $1.7 billion of
    the true-up
    balance determined in the
    True-Up
    Order plus interest through the date on which the bonds were
    issued.


 



    Competition
    Transition Charge


 


    In July 2005, CenterPoint Houston received an order from the
    Texas Utility Commission allowing it to implement a CTC designed
    to collect approximately $596 million over 14 years
    plus interest at an annual rate of 11.075 percent (CTC
    Order). The CTC Order authorizes CenterPoint Houston to impose a
    charge on REPs to recover the portion of the
    true-up
    balance not covered by the financing order. The CTC Order also
    allows CenterPoint Houston to collect approximately
    $24 million of rate case expenses over three years without
    a return through a separate tariff rider (Rider RCE).
    CenterPoint Houston implemented the CTC and Rider RCE effective
    September 13, 2005 and began recovering approximately
    $620 million. Effective September 13, 2005, the return
    on the CTC portion of the
    true-up
    balance is included in CenterPoint Houston’s tariff-based
    revenues.


 


    Certain parties appealed the CTC Order to a district court
    in Travis County. In May 2006, the district court issued a
    judgment reversing the CTC Order in three respects. First, the
    court ruled that the Texas Utility Commission had improperly
    relied on provisions of its rule dealing with the interest rate
    applicable to CTC amounts. The district court reached that
    conclusion on the grounds that the Texas Supreme Court had
    previously invalidated that entire section of the rule. Second,
    the district court reversed the Texas Utility Commission’s
    ruling that allows CenterPoint Houston to recover through the
    Rider RCE the costs (approximately $5 million) for a panel
    appointed by the Texas Utility Commission in connection with the
    valuation of the Company’s electric generation assets.
    Finally, the district court accepted the contention of one party
    that the CTC should not be allocated to retail customers that
    have switched to new
    on-site
    generation. The Texas Utility Commission and CenterPoint Houston
    disagree with the district court’s conclusions and, in May
    2006, appealed the judgment to the Texas 3rd Court of
    Appeals, and if required, plan to seek further review from the
    Texas Supreme Court. All briefs in the appeal have been filed.
    Oral arguments were held in December 2006. Pending completion of
    judicial review and any action required by the Texas Utility
    Commission following a remand from the courts, the CTC remains
    in effect. The 11.075 percent interest rate in question was
    applicable from the implementation of the CTC Order on
    September 13, 2005 until August 1, 2006, the effective
    date of the implementation of a new CTC in compliance with the
    new rule discussed below. The ultimate outcome of this matter
    cannot be predicted at this time. However, we do not expect the
    disposition of this matter to have a material adverse impact on
    our or CenterPoint Houston’s financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows.


 


    In June 2006, the Texas Utility Commission adopted the revised
    rule governing the carrying charges on unrecovered
    true-up
    balances as recommended by its staff (Staff). The rule, which
    applies to CenterPoint Houston, reduced the allowed interest
    rate on the unrecovered CTC balance prospectively from
    11.075 percent to a weighted average cost of capital of
    8.06 percent. The annualized impact on operating income is
    a reduction of approximately $18 million per year for the
    first year with lesser impacts in subsequent years. In July
    2006, CenterPoint Houston made a compliance filing necessary to
    implement the rule changes effective August 1,
    2006 per the settlement agreement discussed under
    “CenterPoint Houston Rate Case” below.


 


    During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006,
    CenterPoint Houston recognized approximately $19 million
    and $55 million, respectively, in operating income from the
    CTC. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2005
    and 2006, CenterPoint Houston recognized approximately
    $1 million and $13 million, respectively, of the
    allowed equity return not previously recorded. As of
    December 31, 2006, we had not recorded



    
    4



Table of Contents




    an allowed equity return of $234 million on CenterPoint
    Houston’s
    true-up
    balance because such return will be recognized as it is
    recovered in rates.


 



    Refund of
    Environmental Retrofit Costs


 


    The True-Up
    Order allowed recovery of approximately $699 million of
    environmental retrofit costs related to CenterPoint
    Houston’s generation assets. The sale of CenterPoint
    Houston’s interest in its generation assets was completed
    in early 2005. The
    True-Up
    Order required CenterPoint Houston to provide evidence by
    January 31, 2007 that the entire $699 million was
    actually spent by December 31, 2006 on environmental
    programs. The Texas Utility Commission will determine the
    appropriate manner to return to customers any unused portion of
    these funds, including interest on the funds and on stranded
    costs attributable to the environmental costs portion of the
    stranded costs recovery. In January 2007, we were notified by
    the successor in interest to CenterPoint Houston’s
    generation assets that, as of December 31, 2006, it had
    only spent approximately $664 million. On January 31,
    2007, CenterPoint Houston made the required filing with the
    Texas Utility Commission identifying approximately
    $35 million in unspent funds to be refunded to customers
    along with approximately $7 million of interest and
    requesting permission to refund these amounts through a
    reduction to the CTC, effective March 1, 2007. Such amounts
    are recorded in regulatory liabilities as of December 31,
    2006. In February 2007, the Texas Utility Commission adopted the
    Staff’s recommendation for a slower procedural schedule
    than that requested by CenterPoint Houston. The current
    procedural schedule makes it unlikely that the proposed refund
    would be effective before May 1, 2007. At this time, we
    cannot predict whether any party will oppose CenterPoint
    Houston’s filing or whether the Texas Utility Commission
    will approve CenterPoint Houston’s request.


 



    Final
    Fuel Reconciliation


 


    The results of the Texas Utility Commission’s final
    decision related to CenterPoint Houston’s final fuel
    reconciliation were a component of the
    True-Up
    Order. CenterPoint Houston has appealed certain portions of the
    True-Up
    Order involving a disallowance of approximately $67 million
    relating to the final fuel reconciliation in 2003 plus interest
    of $10 million. CenterPoint Houston has fully reserved for
    the disallowance and related interest accrual. A judgment was
    entered by a Travis County district court in May 2005 affirming
    the Texas Utility Commission’s decision. CenterPoint
    Houston filed an appeal to the Texas 3rd Court of Appeals
    in June 2005, and in April 2006, the Texas 3rd Court of
    Appeals issued a judgment affirming the Texas Utility
    Commission’s decision. CenterPoint Houston filed an appeal
    with the Texas Supreme Court in August 2006, and in October
    2006, the Texas Supreme Court requested that the Texas Utility
    Commission and the City of Houston file written responses to
    CenterPoint Houston’s petition for review. Those responses
    were filed in January 2007. In February 2007, CenterPoint
    Houston filed an agreement with the Texas Supreme Court
    indicating that the parties had reached a settlement of the
    appeal. In order for the settlement to become final, the Texas
    Supreme Court must abate the pending appeal, and the Texas
    Utility Commission must issue a final order approving the
    settlement. If the Texas Utility Commission does not approve the
    agreement or modifies the agreement in a manner unacceptable to
    CenterPoint Houston, CenterPoint Houston would be entitled to
    ask the Texas Supreme Court to reinstate the appeal. If the
    Texas Utility Commission approves the agreement, the parties
    will request the Texas Supreme Court to set aside the lower
    court decisions and remand the case for entry of an order
    approving that settlement. The Texas Supreme Court is not
    required to abate the appeal. If the Texas Supreme Court does
    not abate the appeal, it may request full briefing or deny the
    petition for review. If the petition is denied, the Court of
    Appeals’ judgment would become final. If the petition is
    granted, the Texas Supreme Court would address the merits of
    CenterPoint Houston’s appeal. There is no deadline for the
    Texas Supreme Court’s decisions. As of December 31,
    2006, we have not recorded any amounts related to this decision.


 



    Remand of
    2001 Unbundled Cost of Service (UCOS) Order


 


    The Texas 3rd Court of Appeals remanded to the Texas
    Utility Commission an issue that was decided by the Texas
    Utility Commission in CenterPoint Houston’s 2001 UCOS
    proceeding. In its remand order, the court ruled that the Texas
    Utility Commission had failed to adequately explain the basis
    for its determination of certain projected transmission capital
    expenditures. The Texas 3rd Court of Appeals ordered the
    Texas Utility Commission to reconsider that determination on the
    basis of the record that existed at the time of the Texas
    Utility Commission’s



    
    5



Table of Contents




    original order. In April 2006, the Texas Utility Commission
    opined orally that the rate base should be reduced by
    $57 million and instructed the Staff to quantify the effect
    on CenterPoint Houston’s rates. In the settlement of the
    CenterPoint Houston rate case described below, the parties to
    the remand proceeding agreed to settle all issues that could be
    raised in the remand. Under the terms of that settlement,
    CenterPoint Houston implemented riders to its tariff rates under
    which it will provide rate credits to retail and wholesale
    customers for a total of approximately $8 million per year
    until a total of $32 million has been credited to customers
    under those tariff riders. Those riders became effective
    October 10, 2006. CenterPoint Houston reduced revenues and
    established a corresponding regulatory liability of
    $32 million in the second quarter of 2006 to reflect this
    obligation.


 



    CenterPoint
    Houston Rate Case


 


    In September 2006, the Texas Utility Commission approved a
    settlement of a rate proceeding concerning CenterPoint
    Houston’s transmission and distribution service rates,
    which is discussed in “Regulation — State and
    Local Regulation — Electric Transmission and
    Distribution — CenterPoint Houston Rate Case.”


 



    Customers


 


    CenterPoint Houston serves nearly all of the Houston/Galveston
    metropolitan area. CenterPoint Houston’s customers consist
    of 68 REPs, which sell electricity in its certificated service
    area, and municipalities, electric cooperatives and other
    distribution companies located outside CenterPoint
    Houston’s certificated service area. Each REP is licensed
    by, and must meet creditworthiness criteria established by, the
    Texas Utility Commission. Two of the REPs in CenterPoint
    Houston’s service area are subsidiaries of Reliant Energy,
    Inc. (RRI). Sales to subsidiaries of RRI represented
    approximately 71%, 62% and 56% of CenterPoint Houston’s
    transmission and distribution revenues in 2004, 2005 and 2006,
    respectively. CenterPoint Houston’s billed receivables
    balance from REPs as of December 31, 2006 was
    $140 million. Approximately 53% of this amount was owed by
    subsidiaries of RRI. CenterPoint Houston does not have long-term
    contracts with any of its customers. It operates on a continuous
    billing cycle, with meter readings being conducted and invoices
    being distributed to REPs each business day.


 



    Distribution
    Automation (Intelligent Grid)


 


    CenterPoint Houston is pursuing development and possible
    deployment of an electric distribution grid automation strategy
    with assistance from IBM that involves the implementation of an
    “Intelligent Grid” which would make use of CenterPoint
    Houston’s lines and other facilities to provide on demand
    data and information about electric usage and the status of
    facilities on our system. Although this technology is still in
    the developmental stage, CenterPoint Houston believes it has the
    potential to enable a significant improvement in metering, grid
    planning, operations and maintenance of its system. These
    improvements would be expected to contribute to fewer and
    shorter outages, better customer service, improved operations
    costs, improved security and more effective use of our
    workforce. CenterPoint Houston is making a limited deployment of
    this technology to help in proving the technology and in
    validating its potential benefits prior to a full-scale
    implementation.


 


    In addition to the utility applications discussed above,
    Intelligent Grid technology has the potential to improve the
    provision of data to the retail electric market in Texas to
    enable such enhancements as real-time pricing, real-time
    switching between REPs, and more timely connection and
    disconnection of customers. CenterPoint Houston anticipates that
    the Texas Utility Commission will implement guidelines for
    establishing minimum functionality requirements for the advanced
    meter in 2007, and that the Texas Utility Commission will
    provide a mechanism for timely recovery of costs of
    implementation. CenterPoint Houston will evaluate the outcome of
    the limited deployment and the regulatory mechanisms for cost
    recovery to assess what further expansions, if any, will be made
    later in 2007 and beyond.


 



    Competition


 


    There are no other electric transmission and distribution
    utilities in CenterPoint Houston’s service area. In order
    for another provider of transmission and distribution services
    to provide such services in CenterPoint Houston’s
    territory, it would be required to obtain a certificate of
    convenience and necessity from the Texas Utility Commission and,
    depending on the location of the facilities, may also be
    required to obtain franchises from one or



    
    6



Table of Contents




    more municipalities. We know of no other party intending to
    enter this business in CenterPoint Houston’s service area
    at this time.


 



    Seasonality


 


    A significant portion of CenterPoint Houston’s revenues is
    derived from rates that it collects from each retail electric
    provider based on the amount of electricity it distributes on
    behalf of such retail electric provider. Thus, CenterPoint
    Houston’s revenues and results of operations are subject to
    seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in electricity
    usage, with revenues being higher during the warmer months.


 



    Properties


 


    All of CenterPoint Houston’s properties are located in
    Texas. Its properties consist primarily of high voltage electric
    transmission lines and poles, distribution lines, substations,
    service wires and meters. Most of CenterPoint Houston’s
    transmission and distribution lines have been constructed over
    lands of others pursuant to easements or along public highways
    and streets as permitted by law.


 


    All real and tangible properties of CenterPoint Houston, subject
    to certain exclusions, are currently subject to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the lien of a Mortgage and Deed of Trust (the Mortgage) dated
    November 1, 1944, as supplemented; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the lien of a General Mortgage (the General Mortgage) dated
    October 10, 2002, as supplemented, which is junior to the
    lien of the Mortgage.





 


    As of December 31, 2006, CenterPoint Houston had
    outstanding $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of
    general mortgage bonds under the General Mortgage, including
    approximately $527 million held in trust to secure
    pollution control bonds for which CenterPoint Energy is
    obligated and approximately $229 million held in trust to
    secure pollution control bonds for which CenterPoint Houston is
    obligated. Additionally, CenterPoint Houston had outstanding
    approximately $253 million aggregate principal amount of
    first mortgage bonds under the Mortgage, including approximately
    $151 million held in trust to secure certain pollution
    control bonds for which CenterPoint Energy is obligated.
    CenterPoint Houston may issue additional general mortgage bonds
    on the basis of retired bonds, 70% of property additions or cash
    deposited with the trustee. Approximately $2.2 billion of
    additional first mortgage bonds and general mortgage bonds in
    the aggregate could be issued on the basis of retired bonds and
    70% of property additions as of December 31, 2006. However,
    CenterPoint Houston is contractually prohibited, subject to
    certain exceptions, from issuing additional first mortgage bonds.


 


    Electric Lines — Overhead.  As of
    December 31, 2006, CenterPoint Houston owned 27,253 pole
    miles of overhead distribution lines and 3,603 circuit miles of
    overhead transmission lines, including 442 circuit miles
    operated at 69,000 volts, 2,084 circuit miles operated at
    138,000 volts and 1,077 circuit miles operated at 345,000 volts.


 


    Electric Lines — Underground.  As of
    December 31, 2006, CenterPoint Houston owned 17,904 circuit
    miles of underground distribution lines and 28.4 circuit miles
    of underground transmission lines, including 4.5 circuit miles
    operated at 69,000 volts and 23.9 circuit miles operated at
    138,000 volts.


 


    Substations.  As of December 31, 2006,
    CenterPoint Houston owned 226 major substation sites having
    total installed rated transformer capacity of 50,647 megavolt
    amperes.


 


    Service Centers.  CenterPoint Houston operates
    14 regional service centers located on a total of 304 acres
    of land. These service centers consist of office buildings,
    warehouses and repair facilities that are used in the business
    of transmitting and distributing electricity.


 



    Franchises


 


    CenterPoint Houston holds non-exclusive franchises from the
    incorporated municipalities in its service territory. In
    exchange for the payment of fees, these franchises give
    CenterPoint Houston the right to use the streets and public
    rights-of way of these municipalities to construct, operate and
    maintain its transmission and distribution



    
    7



Table of Contents




    system and to use that system to conduct its electric delivery
    business and for other purposes that the franchises permit. The
    terms of the franchises, with various expiration dates,
    typically range from 30 to 50 years.


 


    In June 2005, CenterPoint Houston accepted an ordinance granting
    it a new
    30-year
    franchise to use the public
    rights-of-way
    to conduct its business in the City of Houston (New Houston
    Franchise Ordinance). The New Houston Franchise Ordinance took
    effect on July 1, 2005, and replaced the prior electricity
    franchise ordinance, which had been in effect since 1957. The
    New Houston Franchise Ordinance clarifies certain operational
    obligations of CenterPoint Houston and the City of Houston and
    provides for streamlined payment and audit procedures and a
    two-year statute of limitations on claims for underpayment or
    overpayment under the ordinance. Under the prior electricity
    franchise ordinance, CenterPoint Houston paid annual franchise
    fees of $76.6 million to the City of Houston for the year
    ended December 31, 2004. For the twelve-month period ended
    June 30, 2006, the annual franchise fee under the New
    Houston Franchise Ordinance included a base amount of
    $88.1 million and an additional payment of
    $8.5 million. The base amount and the additional amount
    will be adjusted annually based on the increase, if any, in
    kilowatt-hours
    (kWh) delivered by CenterPoint Houston within the City of
    Houston. Pursuant to the New Houston Franchise Ordinance, the
    annual franchise fee will be reduced prospectively to reflect
    any portion of the annual franchise fee that is not included in
    CenterPoint Houston’s base rates in any subsequent rate
    case.


 


    In connection with its most recent rate case and the settlement
    discussions related to that case, CenterPoint Houston offered to
    all of the cities in its service area an opportunity to adopt a
    new form of franchise (Settlement Franchise) containing terms
    similar to those in the New Houston Franchise Ordinance. This
    early renewal effort used a non-negotiable form of franchise
    and, except as necessary to comply with city charters, offered
    to all cities substantially equivalent terms and a single,
    simplified method of calculating and paying franchise fees. The
    Settlement Franchise was offered regardless of when any existing
    franchise was scheduled to expire. Of the 92 cities other
    than Houston in CenterPoint Houston’s service area, 59 have
    passed the Settlement Franchise. On December 31, 2006,
    CenterPoint Houston terminated its early renewal offer and will
    pursue new franchises with the remaining cities as their
    franchises near expiration.


 



    Natural
    Gas Distribution


 


    CERC Corp.’s natural gas distribution business (Gas
    Operations) engages in regulated intrastate natural gas sales
    to, and natural gas transportation for, approximately
    3.2 million residential, commercial and industrial
    customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi,
    Oklahoma and Texas. The largest metropolitan areas served in
    each state by Gas Operations are Houston, Texas; Minneapolis,
    Minnesota; Little Rock, Arkansas; Shreveport, Louisiana; Biloxi,
    Mississippi; and Lawton, Oklahoma. In 2006, approximately 40% of
    Gas Operations’ total throughput was attributable to
    residential customers and approximately 60% was attributable to
    commercial and industrial customers.


 


    Gas Operations also provides unregulated services consisting of
    heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment and
    appliance repair, and sales of HVAC, hearth and water heating
    equipment in Minnesota.


 


    The demand for intrastate natural gas sales to, and natural gas
    transportation for, residential, commercial and industrial
    customers is seasonal. In 2006, approximately 68% of the total
    throughput of Gas Operations’ business occurred in the
    first and fourth quarters. These patterns reflect the higher
    demand for natural gas for heating purposes during those periods.


 


    Supply and Transportation.  In 2006, Gas
    Operations purchased virtually all of its natural gas supply
    pursuant to contracts with remaining terms varying from a few
    months to four years. Major suppliers in 2006 included BP Canada
    Energy Marketing Corp. (23.3% of supply volumes), HPL Marketing
    (14.6%), Kinder Morgan (11.4%), Tenaska Marketing Ventures
    (5.1%) and ConocoPhillips Company (4.7%). Numerous other
    suppliers provided the remaining 40.9% of Gas Operations’
    natural gas supply requirements. Gas Operations transports its
    natural gas supplies through various intrastate and interstate
    pipelines, including those owned by our other subsidiaries,
    under contracts with remaining terms, including extensions,
    varying from one to sixteen years. Gas Operations anticipates
    that these gas supply and transportation contracts will be
    renewed prior to their expiration.



    
    8



Table of Contents



 


    We actively engage in commodity price stabilization pursuant to
    annual gas supply plans filed with each of our state regulatory
    authorities. These price stabilization activities include
    contractually establishing fixed prices with our physical gas
    suppliers and utilizing financial derivative instruments to
    achieve a variety of pricing structures (e.g., fixed price,
    costless collars, and caps). Our gas supply plans generally call
    for 25-50%
    of winter supplies to be hedged in some fashion.


 


    Generally, the regulations of the states in which Gas Operations
    operates allow it to pass through changes in the cost of natural
    gas, including gains and losses on financial derivatives
    associated with the index-priced physical supply, to its
    customers under purchased gas adjustment provisions in its
    tariffs.  Depending upon the jurisdiction, the purchased gas
    adjustment factors are updated periodically, ranging from
    monthly to semi-annually, using estimated gas costs. The changes
    in the cost of gas billed to customers are subject to review by
    the applicable regulatory bodies.


 


    Gas Operations uses various third-party storage services or
    owned natural gas storage facilities to meet
    peak-day
    requirements and to manage the daily changes in demand due to
    changes in weather and may also supplement contracted supplies
    and storage from time to time with stored liquefied natural gas
    and propane-air plant production.


 


    Gas Operations owns and operates an underground storage facility
    with a capacity of 7.0 billion cubic feet (Bcf). It has a
    working capacity of 2.1 Bcf available for use during a
    normal heating season and a maximum daily withdrawal rate of
    50 million cubic feet (MMcf). It also owns nine propane-air
    plants with a total capacity of 192 MMcf per day and
    on-site
    storage facilities for 12 million gallons of propane
    (1.0 Bcf gas equivalent). It owns liquefied natural gas
    plant facilities with a 12 million-gallon liquefied natural
    gas storage tank (1.0 Bcf gas equivalent) and a send-out
    capability of 72 MMcf per day.


 


    On an ongoing basis, Gas Operations enters into contracts to
    provide sufficient supplies and pipeline capacity to meet its
    customer requirements. However, it is possible for limited
    service disruptions to occur from time to time due to weather
    conditions, transportation constraints and other events. As a
    result of these factors, supplies of natural gas may become
    unavailable from time to time, or prices may increase rapidly in
    response to temporary supply constraints or other factors.


 



    Assets


 


    As of December 31, 2006, Gas Operations owned approximately
    66,000 linear miles of natural gas distribution mains, varying
    in size from one-half inch to 24 inches in diameter.
    Generally, in each of the cities, towns and rural areas served
    by Gas Operations, it owns the underground gas mains and service
    lines, metering and regulating equipment located on
    customers’ premises and the district regulating equipment
    necessary for pressure maintenance. With a few exceptions, the
    measuring stations at which Gas Operations receives gas are
    owned, operated and maintained by others, and its distribution
    facilities begin at the outlet of the measuring equipment. These
    facilities, including odorizing equipment, are usually located
    on the land owned by suppliers.


 



    Competition


 


    Gas Operations competes primarily with alternate energy sources
    such as electricity and other fuel sources. In some areas,
    intrastate pipelines, other gas distributors and marketers also
    compete directly for gas sales to
    end-users.
    In addition, as a result of federal regulations affecting
    interstate pipelines, natural gas marketers operating on these
    pipelines may be able to bypass Gas Operations’ facilities
    and market and sell
    and/or
    transport natural gas directly to commercial and industrial
    customers.


 



    Competitive
    Natural Gas Sales and Services


 


    CERC offers variable and fixed-priced physical natural gas
    supplies primarily to commercial and industrial customers and
    electric and gas utilities through two subsidiaries, CenterPoint
    Energy Intrastate Pipeline, Inc. (CEIP) and CenterPoint Energy
    Services, Inc. (CES).


 


    In 2006, CES marketed approximately 555 Bcf of natural gas,
    transportation and related energy services to nearly 7,000
    customers (including approximately 36 Bcf to affiliates).
    CES customers vary in size from small



    
    9



Table of Contents




    commercial customers to large utility companies in the central
    and eastern regions of the United States, and are served from
    offices located in Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Minnesota,
    Missouri, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin. The business has
    three operational functions: wholesale, retail and intrastate
    pipelines, which are further described below.


 


    Wholesale Operations.  CES offers a portfolio
    of physical delivery services and financial products designed to
    meet wholesale customers’ supply and price risk management
    needs. These customers are served directly through interconnects
    with various inter- and intra-state pipeline companies, and
    include gas utilities, large industrial customers and electric
    generation customers.


 


    Retail Operations.  CES offers a variety of
    natural gas management services to smaller commercial and
    industrial customers, municipalities, educational institutions
    and hospitals, whose facilities are located downstream of
    natural gas distribution utility city gate stations. These
    services include load forecasting, supply acquisition, daily
    swing volume management, invoice consolidation, storage asset
    management, firm and interruptible transportation administration
    and forward price management. CES manages transportation
    contracts and energy supply for retail customers in ten states.


 


    Intrastate Pipeline Operations.  CEIP provides
    bundled and unbundled merchant and transportation services to
    shippers and end-users.


 


    CES currently transports natural gas on over 30 interstate and
    intrastate pipelines within states located throughout the
    central and eastern United States. CES maintains a portfolio of
    natural gas supply contracts and firm transportation and storage
    agreements to meet the natural gas requirements of its
    customers. CES aggregates supply from various producing regions
    and offers contracts to buy natural gas with terms ranging from
    one month to over five years. In addition, CES actively
    participates in the spot natural gas markets in an effort to
    balance daily and monthly purchases and sales obligations.
    Natural gas supply and transportation capabilities are leveraged
    through contracts for ancillary services including physical
    storage and other balancing arrangements.


 


    As described above, CES offers its customers a variety of load
    following services. In providing these services, CES uses its
    customers’ purchase commitments to forecast and arrange its
    own supply purchases, storage and transportation services to
    serve customers’ natural gas requirements. As a result of
    the variance between this forecast activity and the actual
    monthly activity, CES will either have too much supply or too
    little supply relative to its customers’ purchase
    commitments. These supply imbalances arise each month as
    customers’ natural gas requirements are scheduled and
    corresponding natural gas supplies are nominated by CES for
    delivery to those customers. CES’ processes and risk
    control environment are designed to measure and value imbalances
    on a real-time basis to ensure that CES’ exposure to
    commodity price risk is kept to a minimum. The value assigned to
    these imbalances is calculated daily and is known as the
    aggregate Value at Risk (VaR). In 2006, CES’ VaR averaged
    $1.6 million with a high of $2.7 million.


 


    The CenterPoint Energy risk control policy, governed by our Risk
    Oversight Committee, defines authorized and prohibited trading
    instruments and trading limits. CES is a physical marketer of
    natural gas and uses a variety of tools, including pipeline and
    storage capacity, financial instruments and physical commodity
    purchase contracts to support its sales. The CES business
    optimizes its use of these various tools to minimize its supply
    costs and does not engage in proprietary or speculative
    commodity trading. The VaR limits within which CES operates are
    consistent with its operational objective of matching its
    aggregate sales obligations (including the swing associated with
    load following services) with its supply portfolio in a manner
    that minimizes its total cost of supply.


 



    Assets


 


    CEIP owns and operates approximately 231 miles of
    intrastate pipeline in Louisiana and Texas and holds storage
    facilities in Texas under long-term leases.


 



    Competition


 


    CES competes with regional and national wholesale and retail gas
    marketers including the marketing divisions of natural gas
    producers and utilities. In addition, CES competes with
    intrastate pipelines for customers and services in its market
    areas.



    
    10



Table of Contents



 



    Interstate
    Pipelines


 


    Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, we are reporting our
    interstate pipelines and field services businesses as two
    separate business segments. These business segments were
    previously aggregated and reported as the Pipelines and Field
    Services business segment. CERC’s pipelines business
    operates:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    two interstate natural gas pipelines; and



 


     
        • 

    
    gas transmission lines primarily located in Arkansas, Illinois,
    Louisiana, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas.





 


    CERC’s interstate pipeline operations are primarily
    conducted by two wholly owned subsidiaries that provide gas
    transportation and storage services primarily to industrial
    customers and local distribution companies:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    CenterPoint Energy Gas Transmission Company (CEGT) is an
    interstate pipeline that provides natural gas transportation,
    natural gas storage and pipeline services to customers
    principally in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas; and



 


     
        • 

    
    CenterPoint Energy-Mississippi River Transmission Corporation
    (MRT) is an interstate pipeline that provides natural gas
    transportation, natural gas storage and pipeline services to
    customers principally in Arkansas and Missouri.





 


    The rates charged by CEGT and MRT for interstate transportation
    and storage services are regulated by the Federal Energy
    Regulatory Commission (FERC). Our interstate pipelines business
    operations may be affected by changes in the demand for natural
    gas, the available supply and relative price of natural gas in
    the Mid-continent and Gulf Coast natural gas supply regions and
    general economic conditions.


 


    In 2006, approximately 26% of CEGT and MRT’s total
    operating revenue was attributable to services provided to Gas
    Operations and approximately 11% was attributable to services
    provided to Laclede Gas Company (Laclede), an unaffiliated
    distribution company that provides natural gas utility service
    to the greater St. Louis metropolitan area in Illinois and
    Missouri. Services to Gas Operations and Laclede are provided
    under several long-term firm storage and transportation
    agreements. Since October 31, 2006, MRT’s contract
    with Laclede has been terminable upon one year’s prior
    notice. MRT has not received a termination notice and is
    currently negotiating a long-term contract with Laclede.
    Agreements for firm transportation, “no notice”
    transportation service and storage service in certain of Gas
    Operations’ service areas (Arkansas, Louisiana and
    Oklahoma) expire in 2012.


 


    Carthage to Perryville.  In October 2005, CEGT
    signed a
    10-year firm
    transportation agreement with XTO Energy (XTO) to transport
    600 MMcf per day of natural gas from Carthage, Texas to
    CEGT’s Perryville hub in Northeast Louisiana. To
    accommodate this transaction, CEGT filed a certificate
    application with the FERC in March 2006 to build a
    172-mile,
    42-inch
    diameter pipeline and related compression facilities. The
    capacity of the pipeline under this filing will be 1.25 Bcf
    per day. CEGT has signed firm contracts for the full capacity of
    the pipeline.


 


    In October 2006, the FERC issued CEGT’s certificate to
    construct, own and operate the pipeline and compression
    facilities. CEGT has begun construction of the facilities and
    expects to place the facilities in service in the second quarter
    of 2007 at a cost of approximately $500 million.


 


    Based on interest expressed during an open season held in 2006,
    and subject to FERC approval, CEGT may expand capacity of the
    pipeline to 1.5 Bcf per day, which would bring the total
    estimated capital cost of the project to approximately
    $550 million. In September 2006, CEGT filed for approval to
    increase the maximum allowable operating pressure with the U.S.
    Department of Transportation (DOT). In December 2006, CEGT filed
    for the necessary certificate to expand capacity of the pipeline
    with the FERC. CEGT expects to receive the approvals in the
    third quarter of 2007.


 


    During the four-year period subsequent to the in-service date of
    the pipeline, XTO can request, and subject to mutual
    negotiations that meet specific financial parameters and to FERC
    approval, CEGT would construct a
    67-mile
    extension from CEGT’s Perryville hub to an interconnect
    with Texas Eastern Gas Transmission at Union Church, Mississippi.



    
    11



Table of Contents



 


    Southeast Supply Header.  In June 2006,
    CenterPoint Energy Southeast Pipelines Holding, L.L.C., a wholly
    owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. and a subsidiary of Spectra
    Energy Corp. (Spectra) formed a joint venture (Southeast Supply
    Header or SESH) to construct, own and operate a
    270-mile
    pipeline that will extend from CEGT’s Perryville hub in
    northeast Louisiana to Gulfstream Natural Gas System, which is
    50 percent owned by an affiliate of Spectra. In August
    2006, the joint venture signed an agreement with Florida
    Power & Light Company (FPL) for firm transportation
    services, which subscribed approximately half of the planned
    1 Bcf per day capacity of the pipeline. FPL’s
    commitment was contingent on the approval of the FPL contract by
    the Florida Public Service Commission, which was received in
    December 2006. Subject to the joint venture receiving a
    certificate from the FERC to construct, own and operate the
    pipeline, subsidiaries of Spectra and CERC Corp. have committed
    to build the pipeline. In December 2006, the joint venture
    signed agreements with affiliates of Progress Energy Florida,
    Southern Company, Tampa Electric Company, and EOG Resources,
    Inc. bringing the total subscribed capacity to 945 MMcf per
    day. Additionally, SESH and Southern Natural Gas (SNG) have
    executed a definitive agreement that provides for SNG to jointly
    own the first 115 miles of the pipeline. Under the
    agreement, SNG will own an undivided interest in the portion of
    the pipeline from Perryville, Louisiana to an interconnect with
    SNG in Mississippi. The pipe diameter will be increased from
    36 inches to 42 inches, thereby increasing the initial
    capacity of 1 Bcf per day by 140 MMcf per day to
    accommodate SNG. SESH will own assets providing approximately
    1 Bcf per day of capacity as initially planned and will
    maintain economic expansion opportunities in the future. SNG
    will own assets providing 140 MMcf per day of capacity, and
    the agreement provides for a future compression expansion that
    could increase the capacity up to 500 MMcf per day. An
    application to construct, own and operate the pipeline was filed
    with the FERC in December 2006. Subject to receipt of FERC
    authorization and construction in accordance with planned
    schedule, we currently expect an in service date in the summer
    of 2008. The total cost of the combined project is estimated to
    be $800 to $900 million with SESH’s net costs of $700 to
    $800 million after SNG’s contribution.


 


    Proposed Mid-continent Crossing.  In June 2006,
    CEGT and Spectra signed a memorandum of understanding to explore
    the potential development of a new natural gas pipeline to bring
    gas from areas in the Mid-continent region to pipelines serving
    the Northeast and Southeast markets (MCX). In January 2007, CEGT
    and Spectra announced that market and economic conditions did
    not support the construction of the proposed pipeline. CEGT and
    Spectra may continue to independently evaluate opportunities for
    building infrastructure to transport mid-continent natural gas,
    including projects in the vicinity of the proposed MCX.


 



    Assets


 


    Our interstate pipelines business currently owns and operates
    approximately 7,900 miles of natural gas transmission lines
    primarily located in Arkansas, Illinois, Louisiana, Missouri,
    Oklahoma and Texas. It also owns and operates six natural gas
    storage fields with a combined daily deliverability of
    approximately 1.2 Bcf per day and a combined working gas
    capacity of approximately 59.0 Bcf. It also owns a 10%
    interest in the Bistineau storage facility located in Bienville
    Parish, Louisiana, with the remaining interest owned and
    operated by Gulf South Pipeline Company, LP. This facility has a
    total working gas capacity of 85.7 Bcf and approximately
    1.1 Bcf per day of deliverability. Storage capacity in the
    Bistineau facility is 8 Bcf of working gas with
    100 MMcf per day of deliverability. Most storage operations
    are in north Louisiana and Oklahoma.


 



    Competition


 


    Our interstate pipelines business competes with other interstate
    and intrastate pipelines in the transportation and storage of
    natural gas. The principal elements of competition among
    pipelines are rates, terms of service, and flexibility and
    reliability of service. Our interstate pipelines business
    competes indirectly with other forms of energy available to our
    customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The
    primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the availability
    of energy and pipeline capacity, the level of business activity,
    conservation and governmental regulations, the capability to
    convert to alternative fuels, and other factors, including
    weather, affect the demand for natural gas in areas we serve and
    the level of competition for transportation and storage services.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 



    Field
    Services


 


    Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, we are reporting our
    interstate pipelines and field services businesses as two
    separate business segments. These business segments were
    previously aggregated and reported as the Pipelines and Field
    Services business segment. CERC’s field services business
    operates gas gathering, treating, and processing facilities and
    also provides operating and technical services and remote data
    monitoring and communication services.


 


    CERC’s field services operations are conducted by a wholly
    owned subsidiary, CenterPoint Energy Field Services, Inc.
    (CEFS). CEFS provides natural gas gathering and processing
    services for certain natural gas fields in the Mid-continent
    region of the United States that interconnect with CEGT’s
    and MRT’s pipelines, as well as other interstate and
    intrastate pipelines. CEFS, either directly or through its 50%
    interest in the Waskom Joint Venture, processes in excess of
    240 MMcf per day of natural gas along its gathering system.
    CEFS, through its ServiceStar operating division, provides
    remote data monitoring and communications services to affiliates
    and third parties. The ServiceStar operating division currently
    provides monitoring activities at 11,080 locations across
    Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana,
    Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming.


 


    Our field services business operations may be affected by
    changes in the demand for natural gas, the available supply and
    relative price of natural gas in the Mid-continent and Gulf
    Coast natural gas supply regions and general economic conditions.


 



    Assets


 


    Our field services business owns and operates approximately
    3,700 miles of gathering pipelines and processing plants
    that collect, treat and process natural gas from approximately
    150 separate systems located in major producing fields in
    Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas.


 



    Competition


 


    Our field services business competes with other companies in the
    natural gas gathering, treating, and processing business. The
    principal elements of competition are rates, terms of service
    and reliability of services. Our field services business
    competes indirectly with other forms of energy available to our
    customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The
    primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the availability
    of energy and pipeline capacity, the level of business activity,
    conservation and governmental regulations, the capability to
    convert to alternative fuels, and other factors, including
    weather, affect the demand for natural gas in areas we serve and
    the level of competition for gathering, treating, and processing
    services. In addition, competition for our gathering operations
    is impacted by commodity pricing levels because of their
    influence on the level of drilling activity.


 



    Other
    Operations


 


    Our Other Operations business segment includes office buildings
    and other real estate used in our business operations and other
    corporate operations that support all of our business operations.


 



    Discontinued
    Operations


 


    In July 2004, we announced our agreement to sell our majority
    owned subsidiary, Texas Genco, to Texas Genco LLC. In December
    2004, Texas Genco completed the sale of its fossil generation
    assets (coal, lignite and gas-fired plants) to Texas Genco LLC
    for $2.813 billion in cash. Following the sale, Texas
    Genco, whose principal remaining asset was its ownership
    interest in a nuclear generating facility, distributed
    $2.231 billion in cash to us. The final step of the
    transaction, the merger of Texas Genco with a subsidiary of
    Texas Genco LLC in exchange for an additional cash payment to us
    of $700 million, was completed in April 2005.


 


    We recorded an after-tax loss of $133 million and
    $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
    2005, respectively, related to the operations of Texas Genco.
    The consolidated financial statements report these operations
    for all periods presented as discontinued operations in
    accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (SFAS) No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
    Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.”



    
    13



Table of Contents



 



    Financial
    Information About Segments


 


    For financial information about our segments, see Note 14
    to our consolidated financial statements, which note is
    incorporated herein by reference.


 



    REGULATION


 


    We are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local
    governmental agencies, including the regulations described below.


 



    Federal
    Energy Regulatory Commission


 


    The FERC has jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act and the
    Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended, to regulate the
    transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce and natural
    gas sales for resale in intrastate commerce that are not first
    sales. The FERC regulates, among other things, the construction
    of pipeline and related facilities used in the transportation
    and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the
    extension, expansion or abandonment of these facilities. The
    rates charged by interstate pipelines for interstate
    transportation and storage services are also regulated by the
    FERC. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Act) expanded the
    FERC’s authority to prohibit market manipulation in
    connection with FERC-regulated transactions and gave the FERC
    additional authority to impose civil penalties for statutory
    violations and violations of the FERC’s rules or orders and
    also expanded criminal penalties for such violations.


 


    Our natural gas pipeline subsidiaries may periodically file
    applications with the FERC for changes in their generally
    available maximum rates and charges designed to allow them to
    recover their costs of providing service to customers (to the
    extent allowed by prevailing market conditions), including a
    reasonable rate of return. These rates are normally allowed to
    become effective after a suspension period and, in some cases,
    are subject to refund under applicable law until such time as
    the FERC issues an order on the allowable level of rates.


 


    CenterPoint Houston is not a “public utility” under
    the Federal Power Act and therefore is not generally regulated
    by the FERC, although certain of its transactions are subject to
    limited FERC jurisdiction. The Energy Act conferred new
    jurisdiction and responsibilities on the FERC with respect to
    ensuring the reliability of electric transmission service,
    including transmission owned by CenterPoint Houston and other
    utilities within ERCOT. Under the legislation, the FERC is
    required to designate an Electric Reliability Organization (ERO)
    which will, under FERC oversight, promulgate standards for all
    owners, operators and users of the bulk power system (Electric
    Entities). The ERO and the FERC have authority to impose fines
    and other sanctions on Electric Entities that fail to comply
    with the standards. The FERC has designated the North American
    Electric Reliability Council (NERC) as the ERO. Under the Energy
    Act the ERO may delegate authority to regional entities.
    Currently ERCOT is seeking FERC approval for an ERCOT division
    to be designated as the regional entity for the ERCOT region.
    The ERO currently is developing standards and the other aspects
    of the regulatory framework under the Energy Act. CenterPoint
    Houston does not anticipate that the transmission standards will
    have a material adverse impact on its operations. To the extent
    that CenterPoint Houston is required to make additional
    expenditures to comply with the ERO’s transmission
    standards, it is anticipated that CenterPoint Houston will seek
    to recover those costs through the transmission charges that are
    imposed on all distribution service providers within ERCOT for
    electric transmission provided.


 


    Prior to repeal of the 1935 Act, effective February 8,
    2006, we were a registered public utility holding company under
    the 1935 Act, and we and our subsidiaries were subject to a
    comprehensive regulatory scheme imposed by the SEC under that
    Act. Although the SEC did not regulate rates and charges under
    the 1935 Act, it did regulate the structure, financing, lines of
    business and internal transactions of public utility holding
    companies and their system companies.


 


    The Energy Act repealed the 1935 Act , and since that date, we
    and our subsidiaries have no longer been subject to restrictions
    imposed under the 1935 Act. The Energy Act includes PUHCA 2005
    which grants to the FERC authority to require holding companies
    and their subsidiaries to maintain certain books and records and
    make them available for review by the FERC and state regulatory
    authorities in certain circumstances. In December 2005, the FERC
    issued rules implementing PUHCA 2005. Pursuant to those rules,
    in June 2006, we filed with the FERC



    
    14



Table of Contents




    the required notification of our status as a public utility
    holding company. In October 2006, the FERC adopted additional
    rules regarding maintenance of books and records by utility
    holding companies and additional reporting and accounting
    requirements for centralized service companies that make
    allocations to public utilities regulated by the FERC under the
    Federal Power Act. Although we provide services to our
    subsidiaries through a service company, our service company is
    not subject to the service company rules.


 



    State and
    Local Regulation


 



    Electric
    Transmission & Distribution


 


    CenterPoint Houston conducts its operations pursuant to a
    certificate of convenience and necessity issued by the Texas
    Utility Commission that covers its present service area and
    facilities. The Texas Utility Commission and those
    municipalities that have retained original jurisdiction have the
    authority to set the rates and terms of service provided by
    CenterPoint Houston under cost of service rate regulation.
    CenterPoint Houston holds non-exclusive franchises from the
    incorporated municipalities in its service territory. In
    exchange for payment of fees, these franchises give CenterPoint
    Houston the right to use the streets and public
    rights-of-way
    of these municipalities to construct, operate and maintain its
    transmission and distribution system and to use that system to
    conduct its electric delivery business and for other purposes
    that the franchises permit. The terms of the franchises, with
    various expiration dates, typically range from 30 to
    50 years. As discussed above under “Our
    Business — Electric Transmission &
    Distribution — Franchises,” a new franchise
    ordinance for the City of Houston franchise was granted in June
    2005 with a term of 30 years and 60 other cities have
    passed new franchise ordinances following a similar,
    standardized form.


 


    All REPs in CenterPoint Houston’s service area pay the same
    rates and other charges for the same transmission and
    distribution services.


 


    CenterPoint Houston’s distribution rates charged to REPs
    for residential customers are based on amounts of energy
    delivered, whereas distribution rates for a majority of
    commercial and industrial customers are based on peak demand.
    Transmission rates charged to other distribution companies are
    based on amounts of energy transmitted under “postage
    stamp” rates that do not vary with the distance the energy
    is being transmitted. All distribution companies in ERCOT pay
    CenterPoint Houston the same rates and other charges for
    transmission services. This regulated delivery charge includes
    the transmission and distribution rate (which includes municipal
    franchise fees), a system benefit fund fee imposed by the Texas
    electric restructuring law, a nuclear decommissioning charge
    associated with decommissioning the South Texas nuclear
    generating facility (South Texas Project), transition charges
    associated with securitization of regulatory assets and
    securitization of stranded costs, a competition transition
    charge for collection of the
    true-up
    balance not securitized and a rate case expense charge.


 



    CenterPoint
    Houston Rate Case.


 


    In December 2005, the Texas Utility Commission ordered the
    commencement of a rate proceeding concerning the reasonableness
    of CenterPoint Houston’s existing rates for transmission
    and distribution service and required CenterPoint Houston to
    make a filing by April 15, 2006 to justify or change those
    rates. In April 2006, CenterPoint Houston filed cost data and
    other information that supported the rates then in effect.


 


    In July 2006, CenterPoint Houston entered into a settlement
    agreement with the parties to the proceeding that resolved the
    issues raised in this matter. CenterPoint Houston filed a
    Stipulation and Agreement (Settlement Agreement) with the Texas
    Utility Commission in August 2006 to seek approval of the
    Settlement Agreement. In September 2006, the Texas Utility
    Commission issued its final order approving the Settlement
    Agreement. Revised base rates and other revised tariffs became
    effective in October 2006.


 


    Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, CenterPoint
    Houston’s base rate revenues were reduced by a net of
    approximately $58 million per year. Also, CenterPoint
    Houston agreed to increase its energy efficiency expenditures by
    an additional $10 million per year over the
    $13 million then included in rates. The expenditures will
    be made to benefit both residential and commercial customers.
    CenterPoint Houston also will fund $10 million per year for
    programs providing financial assistance to qualified low-income
    customers in its service territory.



    
    15



Table of Contents



 


    The Settlement Agreement provides that until June 30, 2010
    CenterPoint Houston will not seek to increase its base rates and
    the other parties will not petition to decrease those rates.
    This rate freeze is subject to adjustments for changes related
    to certain transmission costs, implementation of the Texas
    Utility Commission’s recently-adopted change to its CTC
    rule and certain other changes. The rate freeze does not apply
    to changes required to reflect the result of currently pending
    appeals of the
    True-Up
    Order, the pending appeal of the Texas Utility Commission’s
    order regarding CenterPoint Houston’s final fuel
    reconciliation, the appeal of the order implementing CenterPoint
    Houston’s CTC or the implementation of transition charges
    associated with current and future securitizations. In addition,
    CenterPoint Houston is not required to file annual earnings
    reports for the calendar years 2006 through 2008, but is
    required to file an earnings report for 2009 no later than
    March 1, 2010. CenterPoint Houston must make a new base
    rate filing not later than June 30, 2010, based on a test
    year ended December 31, 2009, unless the Staff and certain
    cities with original jurisdiction notify CenterPoint Houston
    that such a filing is unnecessary.


 


    Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, in October 2006
    CenterPoint Houston began amortizing expenditures of
    approximately $28 million related to Hurricane Rita over a
    seven-year period and regulatory expenses of approximately
    $7 million over a four-year period. Pursuant to the
    Settlement Agreement, the Texas Utility Commission determined
    that franchise fees payable by CenterPoint Houston under new
    franchise agreements with the City of Houston and certain other
    municipalities in CenterPoint Houston’s service area are
    deemed reasonable and necessary, along with the revised base
    rates.


 


    The Settlement Agreement also resolved all issues that could be
    raised in the Texas Utility Commission’s proceeding to
    review its decision in CenterPoint Houston’s 2001 UCOS case
    discussed above under “Our Business — Electric
    Transmission & Distribution — Remand of 2001
    Unbundled Cost of Service (UCOS) Order.”


 


    These and other significant matters currently affecting our
    financial condition are further discussed in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Executive
    Summary — Significant Events in 2006” in
    Item 7 of this report.


 



    Natural
    Gas Distribution


 


    In almost all communities in which Gas Operations provides
    natural gas distribution services, it operates under franchises,
    certificates or licenses obtained from state and local
    authorities. The original terms of the franchises, with various
    expiration dates, typically range from 10 to 30 years,
    although franchises in Arkansas are perpetual. Gas Operations
    expects to be able to renew expiring franchises. In most cases,
    franchises to provide natural gas utility services are not
    exclusive.


 


    Substantially all of Gas Operations is subject to traditional
    cost-of-service
    regulation at rates regulated by the relevant state public
    utility commissions and, in Texas, by the Railroad Commission of
    Texas (Railroad Commission) and those municipalities Gas
    Operations serves that have retained original jurisdiction.


 


    Arkansas.  In January 2007, Gas Operations
    filed an application with the Arkansas Public Service Commission
    (APSC) to change its natural gas distribution rates. This filing
    seeks approval to change the base rate portion of a
    customer’s natural gas bill, which makes up about
    30 percent of the total bill and covers the cost of
    distributing natural gas. The filing does not apply to the Gas
    Supply Rate (GSR), which makes up the remaining approximately
    70 percent of the bill. Through the GSR, Gas Operations
    passes through to its customers the actual cost it pays for the
    natural gas it purchases for use by its customers without any
    mark-up. In
    a separate filing in January 2007, Gas Operations reduced the
    GSR by about 9 percent. The APSC approved this GSR filing
    in January 2007.


 


    The filing seeks approval by the APSC of new rates that would go
    into effect later this year and would generate approximately
    $51 million in additional revenue on an annual basis. The
    effect on individual monthly bills would vary depending on
    natural gas use and customer class. As part of the base rate
    filing, we are also proposing a mechanism that, if approved,
    would help stabilize revenues, eliminate the potential conflict
    between our efforts to earn a reasonable return on invested
    capital while promoting energy efficiency initiatives, and
    minimize the need for future rate cases. As part of the revenue
    stabilization mechanism, we proposed to reduce the requested
    return on equity by 35 basis points which would reduce the
    base rate increase by $1 million. The mechanism would be in
    place through December 31, 2010.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 


    In Arkansas, the APSC in December 2006 adopted rules governing
    affiliate transactions involving public utilities operating in
    Arkansas. The rules treat as affiliate transactions all
    transactions between CERC’s Arkansas utility operations and
    other divisions of CERC, as well as transactions between the
    Arkansas utility operations and affiliates of CERC. All such
    affiliate transactions are required to be priced under an
    asymmetrical pricing formula under which the Arkansas utility
    operations would benefit from any difference between the cost of
    providing goods and services to or from the Arkansas utility
    operations and the market value of those goods or services.
    Additionally, the Arkansas utility operations are not permitted
    to participate in any financing other than to finance retail
    utility operations in Arkansas, which would preclude
    continuation of existing financing arrangements in which CERC
    finances its divisions and subsidiaries, including its Arkansas
    utility operations.


 


    Although the Arkansas rules are now in effect, CERC and other
    gas and electric utilities operating in Arkansas sought
    reconsideration of the rules by the APSC. In February 2007, the
    APSC granted that reconsideration and suspended operation of the
    rules in order to permit time for additional consideration. If
    the rules are not significantly modified on reconsideration,
    CERC would be entitled to seek judicial review. In adopting the
    rules, the APSC indicated that affiliate transactions and
    financial arrangements currently in effect will be deemed in
    compliance until December 19, 2007, and that utilities may
    seek waivers of specific provisions of the rules. If the rules
    ultimately become effective as presently adopted, CERC would
    need to seek waivers from certain provisions of the rules or
    would be required to make significant modifications to existing
    practices, which could include the formation of and transfer of
    assets to subsidiaries.


 


    If this regulatory framework becomes effective, it could have
    adverse impacts on CERC’s ability to operate and provide
    cost-effective utility service.


 


    Texas.  In September 2006, Gas Operations filed
    Statements of Intent (SOI) with 47 cities in its Texas
    coast service territory to increase miscellaneous service
    charges and to allow recovery of the costs of financial hedging
    transactions through its purchased gas cost adjustment. In
    November 2006, these changes became effective as all
    47 cities either approved the filings or took no action,
    thereby allowing rates to go into effect by operation of law. In
    December 2006, Gas Operations filed a SOI with the Railroad
    Commission seeking to implement such changes in the environs of
    the Texas coast service territory. Gas Operations’ filing
    has been suspended to allow for discovery and pre-hearing
    conferences, and a final determination is expected in the second
    quarter of 2007.


 


    Minnesota.  At September 30, 2006, Gas
    Operations had recorded approximately $45 million as a
    regulatory asset related to prior years’ unrecovered
    purchased gas costs in its Minnesota service territory. Of the
    total, approximately $24 million related to the period from
    July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2006, and approximately
    $21 million related to the period from July 1, 2000
    through June 30, 2004. The amounts related to periods prior
    to July 1, 2004 arose as a result of revisions to the
    calculation of unrecovered purchased gas costs previously
    approved by the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC).
    Recovery of this regulatory asset was dependent upon obtaining a
    waiver from the MPUC rules. In November 2006, the MPUC
    considered the request for variance and voted to deny the
    waiver. Accordingly, we charged $21 million before income
    taxes to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2006 and reduced the
    regulatory asset by an equal amount. In February 2007, the MPUC
    denied reconsideration. Although no prediction can be made as to
    the ultimate outcome of this matter, we expect to appeal the
    MPUC’s decision which precludes recovery of the cost of
    this gas, which was delivered to our customers and for which we
    have never been paid.


 


    In November 2005, we filed a request with the MPUC to increase
    annual rates by approximately $41 million. In December
    2005, the MPUC approved an interim rate increase of
    approximately $35 million that was implemented
    January 1, 2006. Any excess of amounts collected under the
    interim rates over the amounts approved in final rates is
    subject to refund to customers. In October 2006, the MPUC
    considered the request and indicated that it would grant a rate
    increase of approximately $21 million. In addition, the
    MPUC approved a $5 million affordability program to assist
    low-income customers, the actual cost of which will be recovered
    in rates in addition to the $21 million rate increase.
    Although the Minnesota Attorney General’s Office (OAG)
    requested reconsideration of certain parts of the MPUC’s
    decision, in January 2007, the MPUC voted to deny
    reconsideration and a final order was issued in January 2007.
    The proportional share of the excess of the amounts collected in
    interim rates over the amount allowed by the final order will be
    refunded to customers after implementation of final



    
    17



Table of Contents




    rates. We expect final rates to be implemented no later than May
    2007. As of December 31, 2006, approximately
    $12 million has been accrued for the refund.


 


    In December 2004, the MPUC opened an investigation to determine
    whether our practices regarding restoring natural gas service
    during the period between October 15 and April 15 (Cold Weather
    Period) were in compliance with the MPUC’s Cold Weather
    Rule (CWR), which governs disconnection and reconnection of
    customers during the Cold Weather Period. In June 2005, the OAG
    issued its report alleging we had violated the CWR and
    recommended a $5 million penalty. In addition, in June
    2005, CERC Corp. was named in a suit filed in the
    United States District Court, District of Minnesota on
    behalf of a purported class of customers who allege that our
    conduct under the CWR was in violation of the law. In August
    2006, the court gave final approval to a $13.5 million
    settlement which resolved all but one small claim against us
    which have or could have been asserted by residential natural
    gas customers in the CWR class action. The agreement was also
    approved by the MPUC, resolving the claims made by the OAG. The
    anticipated costs of this settlement were accrued during the
    fourth quarter of 2005.


 



    Department
    of Transportation


 


    In December 2002, Congress enacted the Pipeline Safety
    Improvement Act of 2002 (2002 Act). This legislation applies to
    our interstate pipelines as well as our intrastate pipeline and
    local distribution companies. The legislation imposes several
    requirements related to ensuring pipeline safety and integrity.
    It requires pipeline and distribution companies to assess the
    integrity of their pipeline transmission facilities in areas of
    high population concentration or High Consequence Areas (HCA).
    The legislation further requires companies to perform
    remediation activities in accordance with the requirements of
    the legislation over a
    10-year
    period.


 


    In December 2006, Congress enacted the Pipeline Inspection,
    Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006, which
    reauthorized the programs adopted under the 2002 Act, proposed
    enhancements for state programs to reduce excavation damage to
    pipelines, established increased federal enforcement of one-call
    excavation programs, and established a new program for review of
    pipeline security plans and critical facility inspections. In
    addition, beginning in October 2005, the Pipeline and Hazardous
    Materials Safety Administration of the DOT commenced a
    rulemaking proceeding to develop rules that would better
    distinguish onshore gathering lines from production facilities
    and transmission lines, and to develop safety requirements
    better tailored to gathering line risks. In March 2006, the DOT
    revised its regulations to define more clearly the categories of
    gathering facilities subject to DOT regulation, establish new
    safety rules for certain gathering lines in rural areas, revise
    the current regulations applicable to safety and inspection of
    gathering lines in non-rural areas, and adopt new compliance
    deadlines.


 


    We anticipate that compliance with these regulations by our
    interstate and intrastate pipelines and our natural gas
    distribution companies will require increases in both capital
    and operating costs. The level of expenditures required to
    comply with these regulations will be dependent on several
    factors, including the age of the facility, the pressures at
    which the facility operates and the number of facilities deemed
    to be located in areas designated as HCA. Based on our
    interpretation of the rules and preliminary technical reviews,
    we believe compliance will require average annual expenditures
    of approximately $15 to $20 million during the initial
    10-year
    period.


 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS


 


    Our operations are subject to stringent and complex laws and
    regulations pertaining to health, safety and the environment. As
    an owner or operator of natural gas pipelines, gas gathering and
    processing systems, and electric transmission and distribution
    systems, we must comply with these laws and regulations at the
    federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations can
    restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    restricting the way we can handle or dispose of wastes;



 


     
        • 

    
    limiting or prohibiting construction activities in sensitive
    areas such as wetlands, coastal regions, or areas inhabited by
    endangered species;



 


     
        • 

    
    requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions
    caused by our operations, or attributable to former
    operations; and






    
    18



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    enjoining the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance
    with permits issued pursuant to such environmental laws and
    regulations.





 


    In order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend
    substantial amounts and devote other resources from time to time
    to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    construct or acquire new equipment;



 


     
        • 

    
    acquire permits for facility operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    modify or replace existing and proposed equipment; and



 


     
        • 

    
    clean up or decommission waste disposal areas, fuel storage and
    management facilities and other locations and facilities.





 


    Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a
    variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement
    measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the
    imposition of remedial actions, and the issuance of orders
    enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes
    impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to
    clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been
    disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for
    neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims
    for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the
    release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the
    environment.


 


    The trend in environmental regulation is to place more
    restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the
    environment, and thus there can be no assurance as to the amount
    or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or
    remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different
    from the amounts we currently anticipate. We try to anticipate
    future regulatory requirements that might be imposed and plan
    accordingly to remain in compliance with changing environmental
    laws and regulations and to minimize the costs of such
    compliance.


 


    Based on current regulatory requirements and interpretations, we
    do not believe that compliance with federal, state or local
    environmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial position or results of
    operations. In addition, we believe that our current
    environmental remediation activities will not materially
    interrupt or diminish our operational ability. We cannot assure
    you, however, that future events, such as changes in existing
    laws, the promulgation of new laws, or the development or
    discovery of new facts or conditions will not cause us to incur
    significant costs. The following is a discussion of all material
    environmental and safety laws and regulations that relate to our
    operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance
    with all of these environmental laws and regulations.


 



    Air
    Emissions


 


    Our operations are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and
    comparable state laws and regulations. These laws and
    regulations regulate emissions of air pollutants from various
    industrial sources, including our processing plants and
    compressor stations, and also impose various monitoring and
    reporting requirements. Such laws and regulations may require
    that we obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification
    of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air
    emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions,
    obtain and strictly comply with air permits containing various
    emissions and operational limitations, or utilize specific
    emission control technologies to limit emissions. Our failure to
    comply with these requirements could subject us to monetary
    penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on
    operations, and potentially criminal enforcement actions. We may
    be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future
    for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining
    and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air
    emissions. We believe, however, that our operations will not be
    materially adversely affected by such requirements, and the
    requirements are not expected to be any more burdensome to us
    than to other similarly situated companies.


 



    Water
    Discharges


 


    Our operations are subject to the Federal Water Pollution
    Control Act of 1972, as amended, also known as the Clean Water
    Act, and analogous state laws and regulations. These laws and
    regulations impose detailed



    
    19



Table of Contents




    requirements and strict controls regarding the discharge of
    pollutants into waters of the United States. The unpermitted
    discharge of pollutants, including discharges resulting from a
    spill or leak incident, is prohibited. The Clean Water Act and
    regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of
    dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the
    United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued
    permit. Any unpermitted release of petroleum or other pollutants
    from our pipelines or facilities could result in fines or
    penalties as well as significant remedial obligations.


 



    Hazardous
    Waste


 


    Our operations generate wastes, including some hazardous wastes,
    that are subject to the federal Resource Conservation and
    Recovery Act (RCRA), and comparable state laws, which impose
    detailed requirements for the handling, storage, treatment and
    disposal of hazardous and solid waste. RCRA currently exempts
    many natural gas gathering and field processing wastes from
    classification as hazardous waste. Specifically, RCRA excludes
    from the definition of hazardous waste waters produced and other
    wastes associated with the exploration, development, or
    production of crude oil and natural gas. However, these oil and
    gas exploration and production wastes are still regulated under
    state law and the less stringent non-hazardous waste
    requirements of RCRA. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes such
    as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes, and waste
    compressor oils may be regulated as hazardous waste. The
    transportation of natural gas in pipelines may also generate
    some hazardous wastes that would be subject to RCRA or
    comparable state law requirements.


 



    Liability
    for Remediation


 


    The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
    Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), also known as
    “Superfund,” and comparable state laws impose
    liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the
    original conduct, on certain classes of persons responsible for
    the release of hazardous substances into the environment. Such
    classes of persons include the current and past owners or
    operators of sites where a hazardous substance was released and
    companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of
    hazardous substances at offsite locations such as landfills.
    Although petroleum, as well as natural gas, is excluded from
    CERCLA’s definition of a “hazardous substance,”
    in the course of our ordinary operations we generate wastes that
    may fall within the definition of a “hazardous
    substance.” CERCLA authorizes the United States
    Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and, in some cases, third
    parties to take action in response to threats to the public
    health or the environment and to seek to recover from the
    responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. Under
    CERCLA, we could be subject to joint and several liability for
    the costs of cleaning up and restoring sites where hazardous
    substances have been released, for damages to natural resources,
    and for the costs of certain health studies.


 



    Liability
    for Preexisting Conditions


 


    Hydrocarbon Contamination.  CERC Corp. and
    certain of its subsidiaries are among the defendants in lawsuits
    filed beginning in August 2001 in Caddo Parish and Bossier
    Parish, Louisiana. The suits allege that, at some unspecified
    date prior to 1985, the defendants allowed or caused hydrocarbon
    or chemical contamination of the Wilcox Aquifer, which lies
    beneath property owned or leased by certain of the defendants
    and which is the sole or primary drinking water aquifer in the
    area. The primary source of the contamination is alleged by the
    plaintiffs to be a gas processing facility in Haughton, Bossier
    Parish, Louisiana known as the “Sligo Facility,” which
    was formerly operated by a predecessor in interest of CERC Corp.
    This facility was purportedly used for gathering natural gas
    from surrounding wells, separating liquid hydrocarbons from the
    natural gas for marketing, and transmission of natural gas for
    distribution.


 


    Beginning about 1985, the predecessors of certain CERC Corp.
    defendants engaged in a voluntary remediation of any subsurface
    contamination of the groundwater below the property they owned
    or leased. This work has been done in conjunction with and under
    the direction of the Louisiana Department of Environmental
    Quality. The plaintiffs seek monetary damages for alleged damage
    to the aquifer underlying their property, including the cost of
    restoring their property to its original condition and damages
    for diminution of value of their property. In addition,
    plaintiffs seek damages for trespass, punitive, and exemplary
    damages. The parties have reached an agreement on terms of a
    settlement in principle of this matter. That settlement would
    require approval from the Louisiana Department of Environmental
    Quality of an acceptable remediation plan that could be
    implemented by CERC.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    CERC currently is seeking that approval. If the currently agreed
    terms for settlement are ultimately implemented, the Company and
    CERC do not expect the ultimate cost associated with resolving
    this matter to have a material impact on the financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows of either the
    Company or CERC.


 


    Manufactured Gas Plant Sites.  CERC and its
    predecessors operated manufactured gas plants (MGP) in the past.
    In Minnesota, CERC has completed remediation on two sites, other
    than ongoing monitoring and water treatment. There are five
    remaining sites in CERC’s Minnesota service territory. CERC
    believes that it has no liability with respect to two of these
    sites.


 


    At December 31, 2006, CERC had accrued $14 million for
    remediation of these Minnesota sites. At December 31, 2006,
    the estimated range of possible remediation costs for these
    sites was $4 million to $35 million based on
    remediation continuing for 30 to 50 years. The cost
    estimates are based on studies of a site or industry average
    costs for remediation of sites of similar size. The actual
    remediation costs will be dependent upon the number of sites to
    be remediated, the participation of other potentially
    responsible parties (PRP), if any, and the remediation methods
    used. CERC has utilized an environmental expense tracker
    mechanism in its rates in Minnesota to recover estimated costs
    in excess of insurance recovery. As of December 31, 2006,
    CERC had collected $13 million from insurance companies and
    rate payers to be used for future environmental remediation.


 


    In addition to the Minnesota sites, the EPA and other regulators
    have investigated MGP sites that were owned or operated by CERC
    or may have been owned by one of its former affiliates. CERC has
    been named as a defendant in two lawsuits, one filed in the
    United States District Court, District of Maine and the other
    filed in the Middle District of Florida, Jacksonville Division,
    under which contribution is sought by private parties for the
    cost to remediate former MGP sites based on the previous
    ownership of such sites by former affiliates of CERC or its
    divisions. CERC has also been identified as a PRP by the State
    of Maine for a site that is the subject of one of the lawsuits.
    In March 2005, the federal district court considering the suit
    for contribution in Florida granted CERC’s motion to
    dismiss on the grounds that CERC was not an “operator”
    of the site as had been alleged. In October 2006, the
    11th Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district
    court’s dismissal. In June 2006, the federal district court
    in Maine that is considering the other suit ruled that the
    current owner of the site is responsible for site remediation
    but that an additional evidentiary hearing is required to
    determine if other potentially responsible parties, including
    CERC, would have to contribute to that remediation. We are
    investigating details regarding these sites and the range of
    environmental expenditures for potential remediation. However,
    CERC believes it is not liable as a former owner or operator of
    those sites under CERCLA and applicable state statutes, and is
    vigorously contesting those suits and its designation as a PRP.


 


    Mercury Contamination.  Our pipeline and
    distribution operations have in the past employed elemental
    mercury in measuring and regulating equipment. It is possible
    that small amounts of mercury may have been spilled in the
    course of normal maintenance and replacement operations and that
    these spills may have contaminated the immediate area with
    elemental mercury. We have found this type of contamination at
    some sites in the past, and we have conducted remediation at
    these sites. It is possible that other contaminated sites may
    exist and that remediation costs may be incurred for these
    sites. Although the total amount of these costs is not known at
    this time, based on our experience and that of others in the
    natural gas industry to date and on the current regulations
    regarding remediation of these sites, we believe that the costs
    of any remediation of these sites will not be material to our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


 


    Asbestos.  Some of our facilities contain or
    have contained asbestos insulation and other asbestos-containing
    materials. We or our subsidiaries have been named, along with
    numerous others, as a defendant in lawsuits filed by a number of
    individuals who claim injury due to exposure to asbestos. Some
    of the claimants have worked at locations owned by us, but most
    existing claims relate to facilities previously owned by our
    subsidiaries. We anticipate that additional claims like those
    received may be asserted in the future. In 2004, we sold our
    generating business, to which most of these claims relate, to
    Texas Genco LLC, which is now known as NRG Texas LP (NRG). Under
    the terms of the arrangements regarding separation of the
    generating business from us and our sale of this business to
    Texas Genco LLC, ultimate financial responsibility for uninsured
    losses from claims relating to the generating business has been
    assumed by Texas Genco LLC and its successor, but we have agreed
    to continue to defend such claims to the extent they are covered
    by insurance we maintain, subject to reimbursement of the costs
    of such defense from the purchaser. Although the ultimate
    outcome of these claims cannot be predicted at this time, we



    
    21



Table of Contents




    intend to continue vigorously contesting claims that we do not
    consider to have merit and do not expect, based on our
    experience to date, these matters, either individually or in the
    aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.


 


    Other Environmental.  From time to time we have
    received notices from regulatory authorities or others regarding
    our status as a PRP in connection with sites found to require
    remediation due to the presence of environmental contaminants.
    In addition, we have been named from time to time as a defendant
    in litigation related to such sites. Although the ultimate
    outcome of such matters cannot be predicted at this time, we do
    not expect, based on our experience to date, these matters,
    either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.


 



    Nuclear
    Decommissioning Fund Collection


 


    Pursuant to regulatory requirements and its tariff, CenterPoint
    Houston, as collection agent, collects from its transmission and
    distribution customers a nuclear decommissioning charge assessed
    with respect to its former 30.8% ownership interest in the South
    Texas Project, which it owned when it was part of an integrated
    electric utility. Amounts collected are transferred to nuclear
    decommissioning trusts maintained by the current owner of that
    interest in the South Texas Project. During 2004, 2005 and 2006,
    $2.9 million, $3.2 million and $3.1 million,
    respectively, was transferred. There are various investment
    restrictions imposed on owners of nuclear generating stations by
    the Texas Utility Commission and the U.S. Nuclear
    Regulatory Commission relating to nuclear decommissioning
    trusts. Pursuant to the provisions of both a separation
    agreement and a final order of the Texas Utility Commission
    relating to the 2005 transfer of ownership to Texas Genco LLC,
    now NRG, CenterPoint Houston and a subsidiary of NRG were, until
    July 1, 2006, jointly administering the decommissioning
    funds through the Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Investment
    Committee. On June 9, 2006, the Texas Utility Commission
    approved an application by CenterPoint Houston and an NRG
    subsidiary to name the NRG subsidiary as the sole fund
    administrator. As a result, CenterPoint Houston is no longer
    responsible for administration of decommissioning funds it
    collects as collection agent.


 



    EMPLOYEES


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we had 8,623 full-time
    employees. The following table sets forth the number of our
    employees by business segment:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


 


 


 


    Number Represented
    


 




 


 


 


 


 


    by Unions or
    


 




 


 


 


 


 


    Other Collective
    


 





    Business Segment



 


    Number


 


 


    Bargaining Groups


 



 





    Electric Transmission &
    Distribution
    



 


 


    2,754


 


 


 


    1,170


 





    Natural Gas Distribution
    



 


 


    4,147


 


 


 


    1,466


 





    Competitive Natural Gas Sales and
    Services
    



 


 


    103


 


 


 


    —


 





    Interstate Pipelines
    



 


 


    555


 


 


 


    —


 





    Field Services
    



 


 


    185


 


 


 


    —


 





    Other Operations
    



 


 


    879


 


 


 


    —


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total
    



 


 


    8,623


 


 


 


    2,636


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    As of December 31, 2006, approximately 31% of our employees
    are subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement,
    covering approximately 3% of our employees, is covered by a
    collective bargaining unit agreement with the International
    Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 949, which expires in
    December 2007. We have a good relationship with this bargaining
    unit and expect to renegotiate new agreements in 2007.



    
    22



Table of Contents



 



    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS
    (as of February 28, 2007)


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Name



 



    Age



 



    Title




 





    David M. McClanahan
    



 




    57
    




 


    President and Chief Executive
    Officer and Director
    





    Scott E. Rozzell
    



 




    57
    




 


    Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Corporate Secretary
    





    Gary L. Whitlock
    



 




    57
    




 


    Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer
    





    James S. Brian
    



 




    59
    




 


    Senior Vice President and Chief
    Accounting Officer
    





    Byron R. Kelley
    



 




    59
    




 


    Senior Vice President and Group
    President and Chief Operating Officer, CenterPoint Energy
    Pipelines and Field Services
    





    Thomas R. Standish
    



 




    57
    




 


    Senior Vice President and Group
    President —  Regulated Operations
    








 


    David M. McClanahan has been President and Chief
    Executive Officer and a director of CenterPoint Energy since
    September 2002. He served as Vice Chairman of Reliant Energy,
    Incorporated (Reliant Energy) from October 2000 to September
    2002 and as President and Chief Operating Office of Reliant
    Energy’s Delivery Group from April 1999 to September 2002.
    He has served in various executive capacities with CenterPoint
    Energy since 1986. He previously served as Chairman of the Board
    of Directors of ERCOT and Chairman of the Board of the
    University of St. Thomas in Houston. He currently serves on the
    boards of the Edison Electric Institute and the American Gas
    Association.


 


    Scott E. Rozzell has served as Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of CenterPoint Energy
    since September 2002. He served as Executive Vice President and
    General Counsel of the Delivery Group of Reliant Energy from
    March 2001 to September 2002. Before joining CenterPoint Energy
    in 2001, Mr. Rozzell was a senior partner in the law firm
    of Baker Botts L.L.P. He currently serves as Chair of the
    Association of Electric Companies of Texas.


 


    Gary L. Whitlock has served as Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer of CenterPoint Energy since
    September 2002. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Delivery Group of Reliant Energy from
    July 2001 to September 2002. Mr. Whitlock served as the
    Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Dow
    AgroSciences, a subsidiary of The Dow Chemical Company, from
    1998 to 2001.


 


    James S. Brian has served as Senior Vice President and
    Chief Accounting Officer of CenterPoint Energy since August
    2002. He served as Senior Vice President, Finance and
    Administration of the Delivery Group of Reliant Energy from 1999
    to August 2002. Mr. Brian has served in various executive
    capacities with CenterPoint Energy since 1983.


 


    Byron R. Kelley has served as Senior Vice President and
    Group President and Chief Operating Officer of CenterPoint
    Energy Pipelines and Field Services since June 2004, having
    previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of
    CenterPoint Energy Pipelines and Field Services from May 2003 to
    June 2004. Prior to joining CenterPoint Energy he served as
    President of El Paso International, a subsidiary of El Paso
    Corporation, from January 2001 to August 2002. He currently
    serves on the Board of Directors of the Interstate Natural Gas
    Association of America.


 


    Thomas R. Standish has served as Senior Vice President
    and Group President-Regulated Operations of CenterPoint Energy
    since August 2005, having previously served as Senior Vice
    President and Group President and Chief Operating Officer of
    CenterPoint Houston from June 2004 to August 2005 and as
    President and Chief Operating Officer of CenterPoint Houston
    from August 2002 to June 2004. He served as President and Chief
    Operating Officer for both electricity and natural gas for
    Reliant Energy’s Houston area from 1999 to August 2002.
    Mr. Standish has served in various executive capacities
    with CenterPoint Energy since 1993. He currently serves on the
    Board of Directors of ERCOT.



    
    23



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We are a holding company that conducts all of our business
    operations through subsidiaries, primarily CenterPoint Houston
    and CERC. The following, along with any additional legal
    proceedings identified or incorporated by reference in
    Item 3 of this report, summarizes the principal risk
    factors associated with the businesses conducted by each of
    these subsidiaries:


 



    Risk
    Factors Affecting Our Electric Transmission &
    Distribution Business


 



    CenterPoint
    Houston may not be successful in ultimately recovering the full
    value of its
    true-up
    components, which could result in the elimination of certain tax
    benefits and could have an adverse impact on CenterPoint
    Houston’s results of operations, financial condition and
    cash flows.


 


    In March 2004, CenterPoint Houston filed its
    true-up
    application with the Texas Utility Commission, requesting
    recovery of $3.7 billion, excluding interest, as allowed
    under the Texas electric restructuring law. In December 2004,
    the Texas Utility Commission issued its final order
    (True-Up
    Order) allowing CenterPoint Houston to recover a
    true-up
    balance of approximately $2.3 billion, which included
    interest through August 31, 2004, and providing for
    adjustment of the amount to be recovered to include interest on
    the balance until recovery, the principal portion of additional
    excess mitigation credits returned to customers after
    August 31, 2004 and certain other matters. CenterPoint
    Houston and other parties filed appeals of the
    True-Up
    Order to a district court in Travis County, Texas. In August
    2005, the court issued its final judgment on the various
    appeals. In its judgment, the court affirmed most aspects of the
    True-Up
    Order, but reversed two of the Texas Utility Commission’s
    rulings. The judgment would have the effect of restoring
    approximately $650 million, plus interest, of the
    $1.7 billion the Texas Utility Commission had disallowed
    from CenterPoint Houston’s initial request. CenterPoint
    Houston and other parties appealed the district court’s
    judgment. Oral arguments before the Texas 3rd Court of
    Appeals were held in January 2007, but a decision is not
    expected for several months. No amounts related to the district
    court’s judgment have been recorded in our consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    Among the issues raised in CenterPoint Houston’s appeal of
    the True-Up
    Order is the Texas Utility Commission’s reduction of
    CenterPoint Houston’s stranded cost recovery by
    approximately $146 million for the present value of certain
    deferred tax benefits associated with its former electric
    generation assets. Such reduction was considered in our
    recording of an after-tax extraordinary loss of
    $977 million in the last half of 2004. We believe that the
    Texas Utility Commission based its order on proposed regulations
    issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in March 2003
    related to those tax benefits. Those proposed regulations would
    have allowed utilities owning assets that were deregulated
    before March 4, 2003 to make a retroactive election to pass
    the benefits of Accumulated Deferred Investment Tax Credits
    (ADITC) and Excess Deferred Federal Income Taxes (EDFIT) back to
    customers. However, in December 2005, the IRS withdrew those
    proposed normalization regulations and issued new proposed
    regulations that do not include the provision allowing a
    retroactive election to pass the tax benefits back to customers.
    In a May 2006 Private Letter Ruling (PLR) issued to a Texas
    utility on facts similar to CenterPoint Houston’s, the IRS,
    without referencing its proposed regulations, ruled that a
    normalization violation would occur if ADITC and EDFIT were
    required to be returned to customers. CenterPoint Houston has
    requested a PLR asking the IRS whether the Texas Utility
    Commission’s order reducing CenterPoint Houston’s
    stranded cost recovery by $146 million for ADITC and EDFIT
    would cause a normalization violation. If the IRS determines
    that such reduction would cause a normalization violation with
    respect to the ADITC and the Texas Utility Commission’s
    order relating to such reduction is not reversed or otherwise
    modified, the IRS could require us to pay an amount equal to
    CenterPoint Houston’s unamortized ADITC balance as of the
    date that the normalization violation is deemed to have
    occurred. In addition, if a normalization violation with respect
    to EDFIT is deemed to have occurred and the Texas Utility
    Commission’s order relating to such reduction is not
    reversed or otherwise modified, the IRS could deny CenterPoint
    Houston the ability to elect accelerated tax depreciation
    benefits beginning in the taxable year that the normalization
    violation is deemed to have occurred. If a normalization
    violation should ultimately be found to exist, it could have an
    adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition
    and cash flows. However, we and CenterPoint Houston are
    vigorously pursuing the appeal of this issue and will seek other
    relief from the Texas Utility Commission to avoid a
    normalization violation. The Texas Utility Commission has not
    previously required a company subject to its jurisdiction to
    take action that would result in a normalization violation.



    
    24



Table of Contents



 



    CenterPoint
    Houston’s receivables are concentrated in a small number of
    REPs, and any delay or default in payment could adversely affect
    CenterPoint Houston’s cash flows, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 


    CenterPoint Houston’s receivables from the distribution of
    electricity are collected from REPs that supply the electricity
    CenterPoint Houston distributes to their customers. Currently,
    CenterPoint Houston does business with 68 REPs. Adverse economic
    conditions, structural problems in the market served by ERCOT or
    financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the
    ability of these retail providers to pay for CenterPoint
    Houston’s services or could cause them to delay such
    payments. CenterPoint Houston depends on these REPs to remit
    payments on a timely basis. Applicable regulatory provisions
    require that customers be shifted to a provider of last resort
    if a retail electric provider cannot make timely payments.
    Reliant Energy, Inc. (RRI), through its subsidiaries, is
    CenterPoint Houston’s largest customer. Approximately 53%
    of CenterPoint Houston’s $140 million in billed
    receivables from REPs at December 31, 2006 was owed by
    subsidiaries of RRI. Any delay or default in payment could
    adversely affect CenterPoint Houston’s cash flows,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Rate
    regulation of CenterPoint Houston’s business may delay or
    deny CenterPoint Houston’s ability to earn a reasonable
    return and fully recover its costs.


 


    CenterPoint Houston’s rates are regulated by certain
    municipalities and the Texas Utility Commission based on an
    analysis of its invested capital and its expenses in a test
    year. Thus, the rates that CenterPoint Houston is allowed to
    charge may not match its expenses at any given time. In this
    connection, pursuant to the Settlement Agreement discussed in
    “Business — Regulation — State and
    Local Regulation — Electric Transmission &
    Distribution — CenterPoint Houston Rate Case” in
    Item 1 of this report, until June 30, 2010,
    CenterPoint Houston is limited in its ability to request rate
    relief. The regulatory process by which rates are determined may
    not always result in rates that will produce full recovery of
    CenterPoint Houston’s costs and enable CenterPoint Houston
    to earn a reasonable return on its invested capital.


 



    Disruptions
    at power generation facilities owned by third parties could
    interrupt CenterPoint Houston’s sales of transmission and
    distribution services.


 


    CenterPoint Houston transmits and distributes to customers of
    REPs electric power that the REPs obtain from power generation
    facilities owned by third parties. CenterPoint Houston does not
    own or operate any power generation facilities. If power
    generation is disrupted or if power generation capacity is
    inadequate, CenterPoint Houston’s sales of transmission and
    distribution services may be diminished or interrupted, and its
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be
    adversely affected.


 



    CenterPoint
    Houston’s revenues and results of operations are
    seasonal.


 


    A significant portion of CenterPoint Houston’s revenues is
    derived from rates that it collects from each retail electric
    provider based on the amount of electricity it distributes on
    behalf of such retail electric provider. Thus, CenterPoint
    Houston’s revenues and results of operations are subject to
    seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in electricity
    usage, with revenues being higher during the warmer months.


 



    Risk
    Factors Affecting Our Natural Gas Distribution, Competitive
    Natural Gas Sales and Services, Interstate Pipelines and Field
    Services Businesses


 



    Rate
    regulation of CERC’s business may delay or deny CERC’s
    ability to earn a reasonable return and fully recover its
    costs.


 


    CERC’s rates for its local distribution companies are
    regulated by certain municipalities and state commissions, and
    for its interstate pipelines by the FERC, based on an analysis
    of its invested capital and its expenses in a test year. Thus,
    the rates that CERC is allowed to charge may not match its
    expenses at any given time. The regulatory process in which
    rates are determined may not always result in rates that will
    produce full recovery of CERC’s costs and enable CERC to
    earn a reasonable return on its invested capital.



    
    25



Table of Contents



 



    CERC’s
    businesses must compete with alternative energy sources, which
    could result in CERC marketing less natural gas, and its
    interstate pipelines and field services businesses must compete
    directly with others in the transportation, storage, gathering,
    treating and processing of natural gas, which could lead to
    lower prices, either of which could have an adverse impact on
    CERC’s results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 


    CERC competes primarily with alternate energy sources such as
    electricity and other fuel sources. In some areas, intrastate
    pipelines, other natural gas distributors and marketers also
    compete directly with CERC for natural gas sales to end-users.
    In addition, as a result of federal regulatory changes affecting
    interstate pipelines, natural gas marketers operating on these
    pipelines may be able to bypass CERC’s facilities and
    market, sell
    and/or
    transport natural gas directly to commercial and industrial
    customers. Any reduction in the amount of natural gas marketed,
    sold or transported by CERC as a result of competition may have
    an adverse impact on CERC’s results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows.


 


    CERC’s two interstate pipelines and its gathering systems
    compete with other interstate and intrastate pipelines and
    gathering systems in the transportation and storage of natural
    gas. The principal elements of competition are rates, terms of
    service, and flexibility and reliability of service. They also
    compete indirectly with other forms of energy, including
    electricity, coal and fuel oils. The primary competitive factor
    is price. The actions of CERC’s competitors could lead to
    lower prices, which may have an adverse impact on CERC’s
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    CERC’s
    natural gas distribution and competitive natural gas sales and
    services businesses are subject to fluctuations in natural gas
    pricing levels, which could affect the ability of CERC’s
    suppliers and customers to meet their obligations or otherwise
    adversely affect CERC’s liquidity.


 


    CERC is subject to risk associated with increases in the price
    of natural gas. Increases in natural gas prices might affect
    CERC’s ability to collect balances due from its customers
    and, on the regulated side, could create the potential for
    uncollectible accounts expense to exceed the recoverable levels
    built into CERC’s tariff rates. In addition, a sustained
    period of high natural gas prices could apply downward demand
    pressure on natural gas consumption in the areas in which CERC
    operates and increase the risk that CERC’s suppliers or
    customers fail or are unable to meet their obligations.
    Additionally, increasing natural gas prices could create the
    need for CERC to provide collateral in order to purchase natural
    gas.


 



    If
    CERC were to fail to renegotiate a contract with one of its
    significant pipeline customers or if CERC renegotiates the
    contract on less favorable terms, there could be an adverse
    impact on its operations.


 


    Since October 31, 2006, CERC’s contract with Laclede
    Gas Company, one of its pipeline customers, has been terminable
    upon one year’s prior notice. CERC has not received a
    termination notice and is currently negotiating a long-term
    contract with Laclede. If Laclede were to terminate this
    contract or if CERC were to renegotiate this contract at rates
    substantially lower than the rates provided in the current
    contract, there could be an adverse effect on CERC’s
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    A
    decline in CERC’s credit rating could result in CERC’s
    having to provide collateral in order to purchase
    gas.


 


    If CERC’s credit rating were to decline, it might be
    required to post cash collateral in order to purchase natural
    gas. If a credit rating downgrade and the resultant cash
    collateral requirement were to occur at a time when CERC was
    experiencing significant working capital requirements or
    otherwise lacked liquidity, CERC might be unable to obtain the
    necessary natural gas to meet its obligations to customers, and
    its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows
    would be adversely affected.


 



    The
    revenues and results of operations of CERC’s interstate
    pipelines and field services businesses are subject to
    fluctuations in the supply of natural gas.


 


    CERC’s interstate pipelines and field services businesses
    largely rely on natural gas sourced in the various supply basins
    located in the Mid-continent region of the United States. To the
    extent the availability of this supply is



    
    26



Table of Contents




    substantially reduced, it could have an adverse effect on
    CERC’s results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 



    CERC’s
    revenues and results of operations are seasonal.


 


    A substantial portion of CERC’s revenues is derived from
    natural gas sales and transportation. Thus, CERC’s revenues
    and results of operations are subject to seasonality, weather
    conditions and other changes in natural gas usage, with revenues
    being higher during the winter months.


 



    The
    actual construction costs of proposed pipelines and related
    compression facilities may be significantly higher than
    CERC’s current estimates.


 


    Subsidiaries of CERC Corp. are involved in significant pipeline
    construction projects. The construction of new pipelines and
    related compression facilities requires the expenditure of
    significant amounts of capital, which may exceed CERC’s
    estimates. If CERC undertakes these projects, they may not be
    completed at the budgeted cost, on schedule or at all. The
    construction of new pipeline or compression facilities is
    subject to construction cost overruns due to labor costs, costs
    of equipment and materials such as steel and nickel, labor
    shortages or delays, inflation or other factors, which could be
    material. In addition, the construction of these facilities is
    typically subject to the receipt of approvals and permits from
    various regulatory agencies. Those agencies may not approve the
    projects in a timely manner or may impose restrictions or
    conditions on the projects that could potentially prevent a
    project from proceeding, lengthen its expected completion
    schedule
    and/or
    increase its anticipated cost. As a result, there is the risk
    that the new facilities may not be able to achieve CERC’s
    expected investment return, which could adversely affect
    CERC’s financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.


 



    The
    states in which CERC provides regulated local gas distribution
    may, either through legislation or rules, adopt restrictions
    similar to or broader than those under the 1935 Act regarding
    organization, financing and affiliate transactions that could
    have significant adverse impacts on CERC’s ability to
    operate.


 


    In Arkansas, the APSC in December 2006 adopted rules governing
    affiliate transactions involving public utilities operating in
    Arkansas. The rules treat as affiliate transactions all
    transactions between CERC’s Arkansas utility operations and
    other divisions of CERC, as well as transactions between the
    Arkansas utility operations and affiliates of CERC. All such
    affiliate transactions are required to be priced under an
    asymmetrical pricing formula under which the Arkansas utility
    operations would benefit from any difference between the cost of
    providing goods and services to or from the Arkansas utility
    operations and the market value of those goods or services.
    Additionally, the Arkansas utility operations are not permitted
    to participate in any financing other than to finance retail
    utility operations in Arkansas, which would preclude
    continuation of existing financing arrangements in which CERC
    finances its divisions and subsidiaries, including its Arkansas
    utility operations.


 


    Although the Arkansas rules are now in effect, CERC and other
    gas and electric utilities operating in Arkansas sought
    reconsideration of the rules by the APSC. In February 2007, the
    APSC granted that reconsideration and suspended operation of the
    rules in order to permit time for additional consideration. If
    the rules are not significantly modified on reconsideration,
    CERC would be entitled to seek judicial review. In adopting the
    rules, the APSC indicated that affiliate transactions and
    financial arrangements currently in effect will be deemed in
    compliance until December 19, 2007, and that utilities may
    seek waivers of specific provisions of the rules. If the rules
    ultimately become effective as presently adopted, CERC would
    need to seek waivers from certain provisions of the rules or
    would be required to make significant modifications to existing
    practices, which could include the formation of and transfer of
    assets to subsidiaries.


 


    In Minnesota, a bill has been introduced during the current
    session of the legislature that would create a regulatory scheme
    for public utility holding companies like CenterPoint and their
    public utility operations in Minnesota. The proposed legislation
    would restrict financing activities, affiliate arrangements
    between the Minnesota utility operations and the holding company
    and other utility and non-utility operations within the holding
    company and acquisitions and divestitures. In addition, the bill
    would require prior MPUC approval of



    
    27



Table of Contents




    dividends paid by the holding company, in addition to dividends
    paid by utility subsidiaries, and would limit the level of
    non-utility investments of the holding company.


 


    If either or both of these regulatory frameworks become
    effective, they could have adverse impacts on CERC’s
    ability to operate and provide cost-effective utility service.
    In addition, if more than one state adopts restrictions like
    those proposed in Arkansas and Minnesota, it may be difficult
    for CenterPoint and CERC to comply with competing regulatory
    requirements.


 



    Risk
    Factors Associated with Our Consolidated Financial
    Condition


 



    If we
    are unable to arrange future financings on acceptable terms, our
    ability to refinance existing indebtedness could be
    limited.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we had $9.0 billion of
    outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis, which includes
    $2.4 billion of non-recourse transition bonds. As of
    December 31, 2006, approximately $875 million
    principal amount of this debt is required to be paid through
    2009. This amount excludes principal repayments of approximately
    $481 million on transition bonds, for which a dedicated
    revenue stream exists. In addition, we have cash settlement
    obligations with respect to $575 million of outstanding
    3.75% convertible notes on which holders could exercise
    their conversion rights during the first quarter of 2007 and in
    subsequent quarters in which our common stock price causes such
    notes to be convertible. Our future financing activities may
    depend, at least in part, on:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing and amount of our recovery of the
    true-up
    components, including, in particular, the results of appeals to
    the courts of determinations on rulings obtained to date;



 


     
        • 

    
    general economic and capital market conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    credit availability from financial institutions and other
    lenders;



 


     
        • 

    
    investor confidence in us and the markets in which we operate;



 


     
        • 

    
    maintenance of acceptable credit ratings;



 


     
        • 

    
    market expectations regarding our future earnings and cash flows;



 


     
        • 

    
    market perceptions of our ability to access capital markets on
    reasonable terms;



 


     
        • 

    
    our exposure to RRI in connection with its indemnification
    obligations arising in connection with its separation from
    us; and



 


     
        • 

    
    provisions of relevant tax and securities laws.





 


    As of December 31, 2006, CenterPoint Houston had
    outstanding $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of
    general mortgage bonds, including approximately
    $527 million held in trust to secure pollution control
    bonds for which CenterPoint Energy is obligated and
    approximately $229 million held in trust to secure
    pollution control bonds for which CenterPoint Houston is
    obligated. Additionally, CenterPoint Houston had outstanding
    approximately $253 million aggregate principal amount of
    first mortgage bonds, including approximately $151 million
    held in trust to secure certain pollution control bonds for
    which CenterPoint Energy is obligated. CenterPoint Houston may
    issue additional general mortgage bonds on the basis of retired
    bonds, 70% of property additions or cash deposited with the
    trustee. Approximately $2.2 billion of additional first
    mortgage bonds and general mortgage bonds in the aggregate could
    be issued on the basis of retired bonds and 70% of property
    additions as of December 31, 2006. However, CenterPoint
    Houston is contractually prohibited, subject to certain
    exceptions, from issuing additional first mortgage bonds.


 


    Our current credit ratings are discussed in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — Future Sources and Uses of
    Cash — Impact on Liquidity of a Downgrade in Credit
    Ratings” in Item 7 of this report. These credit
    ratings may not remain in effect for any given period of time
    and one or more of these ratings may be lowered or withdrawn
    entirely by a rating agency. We note that these credit ratings
    are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities.
    Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other
    rating. Any future reduction or withdrawal of one or more of our
    credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our
    ability to access capital on acceptable terms.



    
    28



Table of Contents



 



    As a
    holding company with no operations of our own, we will depend on
    distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our payment
    obligations, and provisions of applicable law or contractual
    restrictions could limit the amount of those
    distributions.


 


    We derive all our operating income from, and hold all our assets
    through, our subsidiaries. As a result, we will depend on
    distributions from our subsidiaries in order to meet our payment
    obligations. In general, these subsidiaries are separate and
    distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us
    with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends,
    distributions, loans or otherwise. In addition, provisions of
    applicable law, such as those limiting the legal sources of
    dividends, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make payments
    or other distributions to us, and our subsidiaries could agree
    to contractual restrictions on their ability to make
    distributions.


 


    Our right to receive any assets of any subsidiary, and therefore
    the right of our creditors to participate in those assets, will
    be effectively subordinated to the claims of that
    subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. In
    addition, even if we were a creditor of any subsidiary, our
    rights as a creditor would be subordinated to any security
    interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any indebtedness
    of the subsidiary senior to that held by us.


 



    The
    use of derivative contracts by us and our subsidiaries in the
    normal course of business could result in financial losses that
    could negatively impact our results of operations and those of
    our subsidiaries.


 


    We and our subsidiaries use derivative instruments, such as
    swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity
    and financial market risks. We and our subsidiaries could
    recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the
    market values of these contracts, or should a counterparty fail
    to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and
    pricing information from external sources, the valuation of
    these financial instruments can involve management’s
    judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the
    underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods
    could affect the reported fair value of these contracts.


 



    Risks
    Common to Our Businesses and Other Risks


 



    We are
    subject to operational and financial risks and liabilities
    arising from environmental laws and regulations.


 


    Our operations are subject to stringent and complex laws and
    regulations pertaining to health, safety and the environment, as
    discussed in “Business — Environmental
    Matters” in Item 1 of this report. As an owner or
    operator of natural gas pipelines and distribution systems, gas
    gathering and processing systems, and electric transmission and
    distribution systems, we must comply with these laws and
    regulations at the federal, state and local levels. These laws
    and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities
    in many ways, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    restricting the way we can handle or dispose of wastes;



 


     
        • 

    
    limiting or prohibiting construction activities in sensitive
    areas such as wetlands, coastal regions, or areas inhabited by
    endangered species;



 


     
        • 

    
    requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions
    caused by our operations, or attributable to former
    operations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    enjoining the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance
    with permits issued pursuant to such environmental laws and
    regulations.





 


    In order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend
    substantial amounts and devote other resources from time to time
    to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    construct or acquire new equipment;



 


     
        • 

    
    acquire permits for facility operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    modify or replace existing and proposed equipment; and



 


     
        • 

    
    clean up or decommission waste disposal areas, fuel storage and
    management facilities and other locations and facilities.






    
    29



Table of Contents



 


    Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a
    variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement
    measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the
    imposition of remedial actions, and the issuance of orders
    enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes
    impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to
    clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been
    disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for
    neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims
    for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the
    release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the
    environment.


 



    Our
    insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Insufficient insurance
    coverage and increased insurance costs could adversely impact
    our results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 


    We currently have general liability and property insurance in
    place to cover certain of our facilities in amounts that we
    consider appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain
    limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption
    coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future
    at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the
    insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to,
    any of our facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss
    or damage without negative impact on our results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows.


 


    In common with other companies in its line of business that
    serve coastal regions, CenterPoint Houston does not have
    insurance covering its transmission and distribution system
    because CenterPoint Houston believes it to be cost prohibitive.
    If CenterPoint Houston were to sustain any loss of, or damage
    to, its transmission and distribution properties, it may not be
    able to recover such loss or damage through a change in its
    regulated rates, and any such recovery may not be timely
    granted. Therefore, CenterPoint Houston may not be able to
    restore any loss of, or damage to, any of its transmission and
    distribution properties without negative impact on its results
    of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    We,
    CenterPoint Houston and CERC could incur liabilities associated
    with businesses and assets that we have transferred to
    others.


 


    Under some circumstances, we, CenterPoint Houston and CERC could
    incur liabilities associated with assets and businesses we,
    CenterPoint Houston and CERC no longer own. These assets and
    businesses were previously owned by Reliant Energy, a
    predecessor of CenterPoint Houston, directly or through
    subsidiaries and include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    those transferred to RRI or its subsidiaries in connection with
    the organization and capitalization of RRI prior to its initial
    public offering in 2001; and



 


     
        • 

    
    those transferred to Texas Genco in connection with its
    organization and capitalization.





 


    In connection with the organization and capitalization of RRI,
    RRI and its subsidiaries assumed liabilities associated with
    various assets and businesses Reliant Energy transferred to
    them. RRI also agreed to indemnify, and cause the applicable
    transferee subsidiaries to indemnify, us and our subsidiaries,
    including CenterPoint Houston and CERC, with respect to
    liabilities associated with the transferred assets and
    businesses. These indemnity provisions were intended to place
    sole financial responsibility on RRI and its subsidiaries for
    all liabilities associated with the current and historical
    businesses and operations of RRI, regardless of the time those
    liabilities arose. If RRI were unable to satisfy a liability
    that has been so assumed in circumstances in which Reliant
    Energy and its subsidiaries were not released from the liability
    in connection with the transfer, we, CenterPoint Houston or CERC
    could be responsible for satisfying the liability.


 


    Prior to our distribution of our ownership in RRI to our
    shareholders, CERC had guaranteed certain contractual
    obligations of what became RRI’s trading subsidiary. Under
    the terms of the separation agreement between the companies, RRI
    agreed to extinguish all such guaranty obligations prior to
    separation, but at the time of separation in September 2002, RRI
    had been unable to extinguish all obligations. To secure us and
    CERC against obligations under the remaining guaranties, RRI
    agreed to provide cash or letters of credit for the benefit of
    CERC and us, and undertook to use commercially reasonable
    efforts to extinguish the remaining guaranties. CERC currently
    holds letters of credit in the amount of $33.3 million
    issued on behalf of RRI against guaranties that have not been
    released. Our current exposure under the guaranties relates to
    CERC’s guaranty of the payment by RRI of demand



    
    30



Table of Contents




    charges related to transportation contracts with one
    counterparty. The demand charges are approximately
    $53 million per year through 2015, $49 million in
    2016, $38 million in 2017 and $13 million in 2018. RRI
    continues to meet its obligations under the transportation
    contracts, and we believe current market conditions make those
    contracts valuable for transportation services in the near term.
    However, changes in market conditions could affect the value of
    those contracts. If RRI should fail to perform its obligations
    under the transportation contracts, our exposure to the
    counterparty under the guaranty could exceed the security
    provided by RRI. We have requested RRI to increase the amount of
    its existing letters of credit or, in the alternative, to obtain
    a release of CERC’s obligations under the guaranty. In June
    2006, the RRI trading subsidiary and CERC jointly filed a
    complaint at the FERC against the counterparty on the CERC
    guaranty. In the complaint, the RRI trading subsidiary seeks a
    determination by the FERC that the security demanded by the
    counterparty exceeds the level permitted by the FERC’s
    policies. The complaint asks the FERC to require the
    counterparty to release CERC from its guaranty obligation and,
    in its place, accept (i) a guaranty from RRI of the
    obligations of the RRI trading subsidiary, and (ii) letters
    of credit limited to (A) one year of demand charges for a
    transportation agreement related to a 2003 expansion of the
    counterparty’s pipeline, and (B) three months of
    demand charges for three other transportation agreements held by
    the RRI trading subsidiary. The counterparty has argued that the
    amount of the guaranty does not violate the FERC’s policies
    and that the proposed substitution of credit support is not
    authorized under the counterparty’s financing documents or
    required by the FERC’s policy. The parties have now
    completed their submissions to FERC regarding the complaint. We
    cannot predict what action the FERC may take on the complaint or
    when the FERC may rule. In addition to the FERC proceeding, in
    February 2007 CenterPoint and CERC made a formal demand on RRI
    under procedures provided for by the Master Separation
    Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2000, between Reliant
    Energy, Incorporated and Reliant Resources, Inc. That demand
    seeks to resolve the disagreement with RRI over the amount of
    security RRI is obligated to provide with respect to this
    guaranty. It is possible that this demand could lead to an
    arbitration proceeding between the companies, but when and on
    what terms the disagreement with RRI will ultimately be resolved
    cannot be predicted.


 


    RRI’s unsecured debt ratings are currently below investment
    grade. If RRI were unable to meet its obligations, it would need
    to consider, among various options, restructuring under the
    bankruptcy laws, in which event RRI might not honor its
    indemnification obligations and claims by RRI’s creditors
    might be made against us as its former owner.


 


    Reliant Energy and RRI are named as defendants in a number of
    lawsuits arising out of energy sales in California and other
    markets and financial reporting matters. Although these matters
    relate to the business and operations of RRI, claims against
    Reliant Energy have been made on grounds that include the effect
    of RRI’s financial results on Reliant Energy’s
    historical financial statements and liability of Reliant Energy
    as a controlling shareholder of RRI. We or CenterPoint Houston
    could incur liability if claims in one or more of these lawsuits
    were successfully asserted against us or CenterPoint Houston and
    indemnification from RRI were determined to be unavailable or if
    RRI were unable to satisfy indemnification obligations owed with
    respect to those claims.


 


    In connection with the organization and capitalization of Texas
    Genco, Texas Genco assumed liabilities associated with the
    electric generation assets Reliant Energy transferred to it.
    Texas Genco also agreed to indemnify, and cause the applicable
    transferee subsidiaries to indemnify, us and our subsidiaries,
    including CenterPoint Houston, with respect to liabilities
    associated with the transferred assets and businesses. In many
    cases the liabilities assumed were obligations of CenterPoint
    Houston and CenterPoint Houston was not released by third
    parties from these liabilities. The indemnity provisions were
    intended generally to place sole financial responsibility on
    Texas Genco and its subsidiaries for all liabilities associated
    with the current and historical businesses and operations of
    Texas Genco, regardless of the time those liabilities arose. In
    connection with the sale of Texas Genco’s fossil generation
    assets (coal, lignite and gas-fired plants) to Texas Genco LLC,
    the separation agreement we entered into with Texas Genco in
    connection with the organization and capitalization of Texas
    Genco was amended to provide that all of Texas Genco’s
    rights and obligations under the separation agreement relating
    to its fossil generation assets, including Texas Genco’s
    obligation to indemnify us with respect to liabilities
    associated with the fossil generation assets and related
    business, were assigned to and assumed by Texas Genco LLC. In
    addition, under the amended separation agreement, Texas Genco is
    no longer liable for, and we have assumed and agreed to
    indemnify Texas Genco LLC against, liabilities that Texas Genco
    originally assumed in connection with its organization to the
    extent, and only to the extent, that such liabilities are
    covered by certain insurance policies or



    
    31



Table of Contents




    other similar agreements held by us. If Texas Genco or Texas
    Genco LLC were unable to satisfy a liability that had been so
    assumed or indemnified against, and provided Reliant Energy had
    not been released from the liability in connection with the
    transfer, CenterPoint Houston could be responsible for
    satisfying the liability.


 


    We or our subsidiaries have been named, along with numerous
    others, as a defendant in lawsuits filed by a large number of
    individuals who claim injury due to exposure to asbestos. Most
    claimants in such litigation have been workers who participated
    in construction of various industrial facilities, including
    power plants. Some of the claimants have worked at locations we
    own, but most existing claims relate to facilities previously
    owned by our subsidiaries but currently owned by Texas Genco
    LLC, which is now known as NRG Texas LP. We anticipate that
    additional claims like those received may be asserted in the
    future. Under the terms of the arrangements regarding separation
    of the generating business from us and its sale to Texas Genco
    LLC, ultimate financial responsibility for uninsured losses from
    claims relating to the generating business has been assumed by
    Texas Genco LLC and its successor, but we have agreed to
    continue to defend such claims to the extent they are covered by
    insurance maintained by us, subject to reimbursement of the
    costs of such defense by Texas Genco LLC.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B