. Risk Factors” in this Report.Item 1A. Risk FactorsThis section highlights specific risks that could affect our business. Although we have tried to discuss all material risks of which we are aware at the time this Report has been filed, other risks may prove to be important in the future, including those that are not currently ascertainable. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward looking statements include:General Economic and Market RisksChanges And Instability In The Macroeconomic Environment May Adversely Affect Our Industry, Business, Results Of Operations And Financial Condition.We offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. We market our credit card products on a national basis throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom and offer banking and other services in many regions within the United States. A prolonged period of slow economic growth or a significant deterioration in economic conditions in the United States or one of these countries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as customers default on their loans or maintain lower deposit levels or, in the case of credit card accounts, carry lower balances and reduce credit card purchase activity.Although certain economic conditions in the United States have shown signs of improvement in recent years, the macroeconomic environment remains unstable and uneven, and the U.S. economy remains susceptible to global events and volatility. Geopolitical matters, including international political unrest or disturbances, continued concerns over energy prices and economic instability or recession in certain regions, may impact the stability of financial markets and the U.S. economy.Some of the risks we may face in connection with adverse changes and instability in macroeconomic environment include the following:•Payment patterns may change, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, changes in consumer confidence levels and behavior, including decreased consumer spending, lower demand for credit and a shift in consumer payment behavior towards avoiding late fees, finance charges and other fees, could have a negative impact on our results of operations.•Increases in bankruptcies could cause increases in our charge-off rates, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.•Our ability to recover debt that we have previously charged-off may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.•The process and models we use to estimate our allowance for loan and lease losses may become less reliable if actual losses diverge from the projections of our models as a result of changes in customer behavior, volatile economic conditions or other unexpected variations in key inputs and assumptions. As a result, our estimates for credit losses may become increasingly subject to management’s judgment and high levels of volatility over short periods of time, which could negatively impact our results of operations. See “There Are Risks Resulting From The Extensive Use Of Models In Our Business.”•Risks associated with financial market instability and volatility could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our funding costs. For example, increases in interest rates and our credit spreads could negatively impact our results of operations. •Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and  15Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsdeteriorating investor expectations, which could limit our access to funding. The interest rates that we pay on the securities we have issued are also influenced by, among other things, applicable credit ratings from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to any of these credit ratings could affect our ability to access the capital markets, increase our borrowing costs and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Increased charge-offs, rising London Interbank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”) and other events may cause our securitization transactions to amortize earlier than scheduled, which could accelerate our need for additional funding from other sources.•An inability to accept or maintain deposits or to obtain other sources of funding could materially affect our ability to fund our business and our liquidity position. Many other financial institutions have also increased their reliance on deposit funding and, as such, we expect continued competition in the deposit markets. We cannot predict how this competition will affect our costs. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted.•Both shorter-term and longer-term interest rates remain below historical averages, as well as the yield curve, which is flatter than its historical average. A flat yield curve combined with low interest rates generally leads to lower revenue and reduced margins because it would limit our opportunity to increase the spread between asset yields and funding costs. Sustained periods of time with a flat yield curve coupled with low interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our net interest margin. •A low interest rate environment increases our exposure to prepayment risk in our mortgage portfolio and the mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio. Increased prepayments, refinancing or other factors that impact loan balances could reduce expected revenue associated with mortgage assets and could also lead to a reduction in the value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, the Federal Reserve’s recent decision to raise short-term interest rates will increase debt service requirements for some of our borrowers and may adversely affect those borrowers’ ability to pay as contractually obligated, which could result in additional delinquencies or charge-offs and negatively impact our results of operations.Regulatory RiskCompliance With New And Existing Laws, Regulations And Regulatory Expectations May Increase Our Costs, Reduce Our Revenue, Limit Our Ability To Pursue Business Opportunities, And Increase Compliance Challenges.Legislation and regulation with respect to the financial services industry has increased in recent years, and we expect that oversight of our business will continue to expand in scope and complexity. A wide and increasing array of banking and consumer lending laws apply to almost every aspect of our business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural and operational penalties, including significant fines and criminal sanctions, and could result in negative publicity or damage to our reputation with regulators or the public. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.We are subject to heightened regulatory oversight by the federal banking regulators to ensure that we build systems and processes that are commensurate with the nature of our business and that meet the heightened risk management and enhanced prudential standards issued by our regulators. For example, over the last several years, state and federal regulators have focused on compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws, data integrity and security, use of service providers, fair lending and other consumer protection issues. In July 2015, Capital One entered into a consent order with the OCC to address concerns about our anti-money laundering (“AML”) program (“AML Program”) emanating from our former Check Cashing Group within the Commercial Banking business. We have made substantial progress in taking the steps and making the improvements required by the OCC consent order. We expect heightened oversight of our AML Program will continue for the foreseeable future.The Dodd-Frank Act, other regulatory reforms and implementing regulations have increased our need to build new compliance processes and infrastructure and to otherwise enhance our risk management throughout all aspects of our business. The cumulative impact of these changes also includes higher expectations for the amount of capital and liquidity we must maintain, as discussed in more detail below under the heading “We May Not Be Able To Maintain Adequate Capital Or Liquidity Levels, Which Could Have A Negative Impact On Our Financial Results And Our Ability To Return Capital To Our Shareholders,” and higher operational costs, which may further increase as regulators continue to implement such reforms. U.S. government agencies charged with adopting and interpreting laws, rules and regulations, including under the Dodd-Frank Act, may do so in an unforeseen manner, including in ways that potentially expand the reach of the laws, rules or regulations more than initially contemplated or currently anticipated. 16Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of ContentsWe have a large number of customer accounts in our credit card and auto lending businesses and we have made the strategic choice to originate and service subprime credit cards and auto loans which typically have higher delinquencies and charge-offs than prime customers. Accordingly, we have significant involvement with credit bureau reporting and the collection and recovery of delinquent and charged-off debt, primarily through customer communications, the filing of litigation against customers in default, the periodic sale of charged-off debt and vehicle repossession. The banking industry is subject to enhanced legal and regulatory scrutiny regarding credit bureau reporting and debt collection practices from regulators, courts and legislators. Any future changes to our business practices in these areas, including our debt collection practices, whether mandated by regulators, courts, legislators or otherwise, or any legal liabilities resulting from our business practices, including our debt collection practices, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition.The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and may negatively influence our revenue, costs, earnings, growth, liquidity and capital levels. In addition, some rules and regulations may be subject to litigation or other challenges that delay or modify their implementation and impact on us. Certain laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, may benefit consumers, borrowers and depositors, but not stockholders. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations. For a description of the material laws and regulations to which we are subject, please refer to “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.”Credit RiskWe May Experience Increased Delinquencies, Credit Losses, Inaccurate Estimates, And Inadequate Reserves.Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. Rising losses or leading indicators of rising losses (such as higher delinquencies, higher rates of non-performing loans, higher bankruptcy rates, lower collateral values or elevated unemployment rates) may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which may degrade our profitability if we are unable to raise revenue or reduce costs to compensate for higher losses. In particular, we face the following risks in this area:•Missed Payments: Our customers may miss payments. Loan charge-offs (including from bankruptcies) are generally preceded by missed payments or other indications of worsening financial condition for our customers. Customers are more likely to miss payments during an economic downturn or prolonged periods of slow economic growth. In addition, we face the risk that consumer and commercial customer behavior may change (for example, an increase in the unwillingness or inability of customers to repay debt), causing a long-term rise in delinquencies and charge-offs.•Estimates of Inherent Losses: The credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We allow for and reserve against credit risks based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolios. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions. We may underestimate our inherent losses and fail to hold a loan loss allowance sufficient to account for these losses. Incorrect assumptions could lead to material underestimations of inherent losses and inadequate allowance for loan and lease losses. In cases where we modify a loan, if the modifications do not perform as anticipated we may be required to build additional allowance on these loans. The build or release of allowances impacts our current financial results.•Underwriting: Our ability to assess the credit worthiness of our customers may diminish, which could result in an increase in our credit losses and a deterioration of our returns. See “Our Risk Management Strategies May Not Be Fully Effective In Mitigating Our Risk Exposures In All Market Environments Or Against All Types Of Risk.”•Business Mix: We engage in a diverse mix of businesses with a broad range of potential credit exposure. Our business mix could change in ways that could adversely affect the credit quality of our portfolio. Because we originate a relatively greater proportion of consumer loans in our loan portfolio compared to other large bank peers and originate both prime and subprime credit card accounts and auto loans, we may experience higher delinquencies and a greater number of accounts charging off compared to other large bank peers, which could result in increased credit losses, operating costs and regulatory scrutiny.•Charge-off Recognition / Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses: The rules governing the allowance for loan and lease losses could change. We account for the allowance for loan and lease losses according to accounting and regulatory guidelines and rules. These guidelines and rules, including Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) standards and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) Account Management Guidance, could require changes in our account management or loss allowance practices and cause our charge-offs and/or allowance for loan and  17Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentslease losses to increase for reasons unrelated to the underlying performance of our portfolio. Such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operation.•Industry Developments: Our charge-off and delinquency rates may be negatively impacted by industry developments, including new regulations applicable to our industry.•Collateral: The collateral we have on secured loans could be insufficient to compensate us for loan losses. When customers default on their secured loans, we attempt to recover collateral where permissible and appropriate. However, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to compensate us for the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Decreases in real estate values adversely affect the collateral value for our commercial lending and home loan activities, while the auto business is similarly exposed to collateral risks arising from the auction markets that determine used car prices. Therefore, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the value of these loans. Borrowers may be less likely to continue making payments on loans if the value of the property used as collateral for the loan is less than what the borrower owes, even if the borrower is still financially able to make the payments. Trends in home prices are a driver of credit costs in our home loan business as they impact both the probability of default and the loss severity of defaults. Additionally, the potential volatility in the number of defaulted and modified loans from changes in home prices can create material impacts on the servicing costs of the business, fluctuations in credit marks and profitability in acquired portfolios and volatility in mortgage servicing rights valuations. Although home prices have generally appreciated recently, the slow economic recovery, shifts in monetary policy and potentially diminishing demands from investors could threaten or limit the recovery. In our auto business, if vehicle prices experience declines, we could be adversely affected. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively affect household incomes, housing prices, and consumer behavior related to our businesses could decrease (i) the demand for new and used vehicles and (ii) the value of the collateral underlying our portfolio of auto loans, which could cause the number of consumers who become delinquent or default on their loans to increase. •Geographic and Industry Concentration: Although our consumer lending is geographically diversified, approximately 31% of our commercial loan portfolio is concentrated in the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. The regional economic conditions in the tri-state area affect the demand for our commercial products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay their commercial loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. An economic downturn or prolonged period of slow economic growth in, or a catastrophic event that disproportionately affects, the tri-state area could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our commercial loan portfolio and our results of operations. In addition, our Commercial Banking strategy includes an industry-specific focus. If any of the industries that we focus in experience changes, we may experience increased credit losses and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. For example, as of December 31, 2015, energy-related loan balances represented approximately 5% of our total commercial loan portfolio. This amount is comprised of loans to commercial entities in the energy industry, such as exploration and production, oil field services, and pipeline transportation of gas and crude oil, as well as loans to entities in industries that are indirectly impacted by energy prices, such as petroleum wholesalers, oil and gas equipment manufacturing, air transportation, and petroleum bulk stations and terminals. In recent years, oil prices have been declining, which has had an adverse effect on many of the borrowers in this portfolio and on the value of the collateral securing our loans to these borrowers, which could impair their ability to service loans outstanding to them and/or reduce demand for loans. If energy-related industries or any of the other industries that we focus on experience adverse changes, we may experience increased credit losses and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.We May Experience Increased Losses And Inadequate Reserves Associated With Mortgage Repurchases And Indemnification Obligations.Certain of our subsidiaries, including GreenPoint Mortgage Funding, Inc. (“GreenPoint”), Capital One Home Loans, LLC and Capital One, N.A., as successor to Chevy Chase Bank (“CCB”), may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that have been sold to investors in the event there are breaches of certain representations and warranties contained within the sales agreements. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we sell to investors in the event that there was improper underwriting or fraud or in the event that the loans become delinquent shortly after they are originated. These subsidiaries also may be required to indemnify certain purchasers and others against losses they incur in the event of breaches of representations and warranties and in various other circumstances, including securities fraud or other public disclosure-related claims, and the amount of such losses could exceed the repurchase amount of the related loans. Consequently, we may be exposed to credit risk associated with sold loans. 18Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of ContentsWe have established reserves in our consolidated financial statements for potential losses that are considered to be both probable and reasonably estimable related to the mortgage loans sold by our originating subsidiaries. The adequacy of the reserve and the ultimate amount of losses incurred will depend on, among other things, the actual future mortgage loan performance, the actual level of future repurchase and indemnification requests, the actual success rate of claimants, developments in litigation and the regulatory environment related to us and the industry, actual recoveries on the collateral, and macroeconomic conditions (including unemployment levels and housing prices). Due to uncertainties relating to these factors, there can be no assurance that our reserves will be adequate or that the total amount of losses incurred will not have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition or results of operations.In addition to the subsidiaries discussed above, we originate, sell and service commercial mortgage loans that meet underwriting guidelines established by GSEs. We are required to meet minimum collateral requirements and share a limited portion of the risk of loss during the remaining terms of these loans. The GSEs may change their collateral requirements for these loans in the future and also increase our loss-sharing obligations if the loans do not meet specific underwriting criteria or default within certain time periods following their sale to the GSEs. We cannot assure you that our liability associated with these loss-sharing agreements will be sufficient to cover any future losses from these loans. We may also be required to share additional losses with GSEs if loan defaults increase, which could impact our results of operations and liquidity.For additional information related to our mortgage loan repurchase and indemnification obligations and related reserves and our estimate of the reasonably possible future losses from representation and warranty claims beyond the current accrual levels, as well as our loss-sharing agreements, as of December 31, 2015, see “Note 21—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.”Capital and Liquidity RiskWe May Not Be Able To Maintain Adequate Capital Or Liquidity Levels, Which Could Have A Negative Impact On Our Financial Results And Our Ability To Return Capital To Our Shareholders.As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the U.S. implementation of international accords, financial institutions are becoming subject to new and increased capital and liquidity requirements. Although U.S. regulators have finalized regulations for some of these requirements, continued uncertainty remains as to the form additional new requirements will take or how and when they will apply to us. As a result, it is possible that we could be required to increase our capital and/or liquidity levels above the levels assumed in our current financial plans. These new requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances or make acquisitions and limit our ability to make most capital distributions. Higher capital levels also lower our return on equity. In addition, as described further below, for regulatory capital purposes we entered parallel run on January 1, 2015, which must last a minimum of four quarters. We will become subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework for purposes of determining our regulatory capital requirements once we receive regulatory approval to do so, although the exact timing of when such approval may be granted is uncertain. Although we have current estimates of risk-weighted asset calculations under that framework, there remains uncertainty around future regulatory interpretations of certain aspects of those calculations. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our current estimates will be correct, and we may need to hold significantly more regulatory capital in the future than we currently estimate to maintain a given capital ratio.In September 2014, the Federal Banking Agencies issued the Final LCR Rule. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for further details regarding the Final LCR Rule. There remains uncertainty as to the impact of daily compliance with the LCR on how we manage our business. See “Note 13—Regulatory and Capital Adequacy” and “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds” for additional information regarding recent developments in capital and liquidity requirements.We consider various factors in the management of capital, including the impact of stress on our capital levels, as determined by both our internal modeling and the Federal Reserve’s modeling of our capital position in CCAR. In recent stress test cycles, including CCAR, we have observed a large difference between our estimates of our capital levels under stress and the Federal Reserve’s estimates of our capital levels under stress. In the current stress test cycle, including CCAR, the difference could be larger because we expect the Federal Reserve to continue to use its own assumptions in modeling results. Therefore, although our estimated capital levels under stress suggest that we have substantial capacity to return capital to shareholders and remain well capitalized under stress, it is possible that the Federal Reserve’s modeling may result in a materially lower capacity to return capital to shareholders than our estimates. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information. 19Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of ContentsOperational RiskWe Face Risks Related To Our Operational, Technological And Organizational Infrastructure.Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire necessary operational, technological and organizational infrastructure or adapt to technological advances involving such infrastructure, which can be a challenge due to the fast pace of digital transformation and advances. We are embedding technology, data, and software development deeply into our business model and how we work. Similar to other large corporations, we are exposed to operational risk that can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, inaccurate models, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or persons outside of our company and exposure to external events. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the strength and capability of our technology systems which we use to manage our internal financial and other systems, interface with our customers and develop and implement effective marketing campaigns. We also depend on models to measure risks, estimate certain financial values, determine pricing on certain products, assess capital adequacy and calculate regulatory capital levels. If we implement or design our models poorly or use inaccurate assumptions in our models, business decisions based on the output of the models may be adversely affected. See “There Are Risks Resulting From The Extensive Use Of Models In Our Business.” In addition, our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our business and reputation could be materially adversely affected. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, cyber-attacks, including Distributed Denial of Service (“DDOS”) attacks discussed below, natural disasters, other damage to property or physical assets or events arising from local or larger scale politics, including terrorist acts. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate our businesses, service customer accounts, and protect customers’ information, or result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage, regulatory intervention and customers’ loss of confidence in our businesses, any of which could result in a material adverse effect. We also rely on the business infrastructure and systems of third parties with which we do business and to whom we outsource the maintenance and development of operational and technological functionality. System breakdowns or failures, adverse changes to financial condition, bankruptcy or other adverse conditions affecting the businesses of such third parties, including our vendors and other service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. Thus, any increase in the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to third parties may increase our risk exposure.Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers and attract new ones and to run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations depends on the functionality and reliability of our operational and technology systems. Any disruptions, failures or inaccuracies of our operational and technology systems and models, including those associated with improvements or modifications to such systems and models, could cause us to be unable to market and manage our products and services, manage our risk or to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner, all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, our ongoing investments in infrastructure, which are necessary to maintain a competitive business, integrate acquisitions and establish scalable operations, may increase our expenses. As our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise as a result of a reevaluation of business strategies, management of outsourced services, asset purchases or other acquisitions, structural reorganization, compliance with new laws or regulations or the integration of newly acquired businesses. If we are unable to successfully manage our expenses, our financial results will be negatively affected.We Could Incur Increased Costs Or Reductions In Revenue Or Suffer Reputational Damage And Business Disruptions In The Event Of The Theft, Loss Or Misuse Of Information, Including As A Result Of A Cyber-Attack.Our products and services involve the gathering, management, processing, storage and transmission of sensitive and confidential information regarding our customers and their accounts, our employees and other third parties with which we do business. Our ability to provide such products and services, many of which are web-based, depends upon the management and safeguarding of information, software, methodologies and business secrets. To provide these products and services, we use information systems and infrastructure, including digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, networks, and other web-based technologies, that we and third-party service providers operate. We also have arrangements in place with third parties through which we share and receive information about their customers who are or may become our customers.  20Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of ContentsLike other financial services firms, technologies, systems, networks and devices of Capital One or our customers, employees or other third parties with whom we interact continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties or may result from accidental technological failure. Any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or other third-party users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or third parties with whom we interact. Further, cyber and information security risks for large financial institutions like us have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists, activists, formal and informal instrumentalities of foreign governments and other external parties. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use computers, smartphones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems.If our information systems or infrastructure or those of our customers, partners or other market participants experience a significant disruption or breach, it could lead, depending on the nature of the disruption or breach, to the unauthorized access to and release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our confidential information or personal or confidential information of our customers, employees or other third parties in our possession. Further, such disruption or breach could also result in unauthorized access to our proprietary information, software, methodologies and business secrets and in unauthorized transactions in Capital One accounts or unauthorized access to personal or confidential information maintained by those entities. As a financial institution, we are subject to and examined for compliance with an array of data protection laws, regulations and guidance, as well as to our own internal privacy and information security policies and programs. However, because the methods and techniques employed by perpetrators of fraud and others to attack, disable, degrade or sabotage platforms, systems and applications change frequently, are increasingly sophisticated and often are not fully recognized or understood until after they have occurred, we and our third-party service providers and partners may be unable to anticipate certain attack methods in order to implement effective preventative measures or mitigate or remediate the damages caused in a timely manner. We may also be unable to hire and develop talent capable of detecting, mitigating or remediating these risks. Although we believe we have a robust suite of authentication and layered information security controls, including our cyber threat analytics, data encryption and tokenization technologies, anti-malware defenses and vulnerability management program, any one or combination of these controls could fail to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner. A disruption or breach such as those discussed above could result in significant legal and financial exposure, regulatory intervention, remediation costs, card reissuance, supervisory liability, damage to our reputation or loss of confidence in the security of our systems, products and services that could adversely affect our business. We and other U.S. financial services providers continue to be targeted with evolving and adaptive cybersecurity threats from sophisticated third parties. Although we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber incidents, there can be no assurance that unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur or that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Unauthorized access or cyber incidents could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. If future attacks like these are successful or if customers are unable to access their accounts online for other reasons, it could adversely impact our ability to service customer accounts or loans, complete financial transactions for our customers or otherwise operate any of our businesses or services. In addition, a breach or attack affecting one of our third-party service providers or partners could harm our business even if we do not control the service that is attacked.In addition, the increasing prevalence and the evolution of cyber-attacks and other efforts to breach or disrupt our systems or those of our partners, retailers or other market participants has led, and will likely continue to lead, to increased costs to us with respect to preventing, mitigating and remediating these risks, as well as any related attempted fraud. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or strengthen our protective security measures, investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities of our information systems and infrastructure or invest in new technology designed to mitigate security risks. For example, various retailers have continued to be victims of cyber-attacks in which customer data, including debit and credit card information, was obtained. In these situations, we incur a variety of costs, including those associated with replacing the compromised cards and remediating fraudulent transaction activity. Further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are impacted, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general which could result in reduced use of our financial products. Though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, it may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event. 21Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of ContentsLegal RiskOur Businesses Are Subject To The Risk Of Increased Litigation, Government Investigations And Regulatory Enforcement.Our businesses are subject to increased litigation, government investigations and other regulatory enforcement risks as a result of a number of factors and from various sources, including the highly regulated nature of the financial services industry, the focus of state and federal prosecutors on banks and the financial services industry, the structure of the credit card industry and business practices in the mortgage lending business. Given the inherent uncertainties involved in litigation, government investigations, and regulatory enforcement decisions, and the very large or indeterminate damages sought in some matters asserted against us, there can be significant uncertainty as to the ultimate liability we may incur from these kinds of matters. The finding, or even the assertion, of substantial legal liability against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and could cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business.In addition, financial institutions, including us, have faced significant regulatory scrutiny over the past several years, which has increasingly led to public enforcement actions. We and our subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve, the SEC, OCC, FDIC and CFPB. We have been subject to enforcement actions by many of these and other regulators and may continue to be involved in such actions, including governmental inquiries, investigations and enforcement proceedings, including by the Department of Justice. We expect that regulators and governmental enforcement bodies will continue taking formal enforcement actions against financial institutions in addition to addressing supervisory concerns through non-public supervisory actions or findings, which could involve restrictions on our activities, among other limitations that could adversely affect our business. Litigation, government investigations and other regulatory actions generally could subject us to significant fines, increased expenses, restrictions on our activities and damage to our reputation and our brand, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Other Business RisksWe Face Intense Competition In All Of Our Markets.We operate in a highly competitive environment, both in making loans and attracting deposits, and we expect competitive conditions to continue to intensify with respect to most of our products. We compete on the basis of the rates we pay on deposits and the rates and other terms we charge on the loans we originate or purchase, as well as the quality and range of our customer service, products, innovation and experience. Price competition for loans might result in origination of fewer loans or earning less on our loans. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, which may give those competitors advantages, including a more diversified product and customer base, the ability to reach out to more customers and potential customers, operational efficiencies, more versatile technology platforms, the ability to innovate faster, broad-based local distribution capabilities, lower-cost funding and larger existing branch networks. In addition, some of our competitors, including new and emerging competitors in the digital and mobile payments space, are not subject to the same regulatory requirements or legislative scrutiny to which we are subject, which also could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Many of our competitors are also focusing on cross-selling their products and developing new products or technologies, which could affect our ability to maintain or grow existing customer relationships or require us to offer lower interest rates or fees on our lending products or higher interest rates on deposits. This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, as well as the consolidation of financial service providers, all of which may affect our customers’ expectations and demands.As of December 31, 2015, we operate the largest online direct banking institution in the U.S. by deposits. While direct banking represents a significant opportunity to attract new customers that value greater and more flexible access to banking services at reduced costs, we face strong competition in the direct banking market. Aggressive pricing throughout the industry may adversely affect the retention of existing balances and the cost-efficient acquisition of new deposit funds and may affect our growth and profitability. In addition, the effects of a competitive environment may be exacerbated by the flexibility of direct banking and the increasing financial and technological sophistication of our customer base. Customers could also close their online accounts or reduce balances or deposits in favor of products and services offered by competitors for other reasons. These shifts, which could be rapid, could result from general dissatisfaction with our products or services, including concerns over pricing, online security or our reputation.We have expanded our credit card partnership business over the past several years with the additions of a number of credit card partnerships. The market for key business partners, especially in the credit card business, is very competitive, and we may not be able to grow or maintain these partner relationships. We face the risk that we could lose partner relationships, even after we have  22Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsinvested significant resources, time and expense into acquiring and developing the relationships. The loss of any of our business partners could have a negative impact on our results of operations, including lower returns, excess operating expense and excess funding capacity.In addition, the global payments industry is highly competitive and is rapidly changing and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny. We compete with all forms of payments, including a variety of new and evolving alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products, such as aggregators and web-based and wireless payment platforms or technologies, digital currencies, prepaid systems and payment services targeting users of social networks and online gaming (including those offering billing to the consumer’s mobile phone account), as well as consortia of merchants that are expected to combine payment systems to reduce interchange and other costs. If we are unable to continue to keep pace with innovation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.In such a competitive environment, we may lose entire accounts or may lose account balances to competing firms, or we may find it more costly to maintain our existing customer base. Customer attrition from any or all of our lending products, together with any lowering of interest rates or fees that we might implement to retain customers, could reduce our revenues and therefore our earnings. Similarly, unexpected customer attrition from our deposit products, in addition to an increase in rates or services that we may offer to retain those deposits, may increase our expenses and therefore reduce our earnings.Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations May Be Adversely Affected By Merchants’ Increasing Focus On The Fees Charged By Credit Card Networks And By Regulation And Legislation Impacting Such Fees.Credit card interchange fees are generally one of the largest components of the costs that merchants pay in connection with the acceptance of credit cards and are a meaningful source of revenue for our credit card businesses. Interchange fees are the subject of significant and intense global legal, regulatory and legislative focus, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business, financial condition and results of operations.Regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries are seeking to reduce credit card interchange fees through legislation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank regulation and or litigation. Interchange reimbursement rates in the United States are set by credit card networks such as MasterCard and Visa. In some jurisdictions, such as Canada and certain countries in the European Union, interchange fees and related practices are subject to regulatory activity that have limited the ability of certain networks to establish default rates, including in some cases imposing caps on permissible interchange fees and we have already experienced these impacts in our International Card business. Legislators and regulators around the world are aware of each other’s approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. Consequently, a development in one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another, such as our primary market, the United States. In addition to this regulatory activity, merchants are also seeking avenues to reduce interchange fees. During the past few years, merchants and their trade groups have filed numerous lawsuits against Visa, MasterCard, American Express and their card-issuing banks, claiming that their practices toward merchants, including interchange and similar fees, violate federal antitrust laws. In 2005, a number of entities filed antitrust lawsuits against MasterCard and Visa and several member banks, including our subsidiaries and us, alleging among other things, that the defendants conspired to fix the level of interchange fees. In December 2013, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted final approval of the proposed class settlement. See “Note 21—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others” for further details. Among other results of the settlement, merchants are now entitled to join together to negotiate lower interchange fees. Some major retailers may have sufficient bargaining power to independently negotiate lower interchange fees with MasterCard and Visa, which could, in turn, result in lower interchange fees for us when our cardholders undertake purchase transactions with these retailers. These and other merchants also continue to lobby aggressively for caps and restrictions on interchange fees and there can be no assurance that their efforts will not be successful or that they will not in the future bring legal proceedings against us or other credit card and debit card issuers and networks. Beyond pursuing litigation, legislation and regulation, merchants may also promote forms of payment with lower fees, such as ACH-based payments, or seek to impose surcharges at the point of sale for use of credit or debit cards. For example, a consortium of large U.S. retailers was recently created to develop a merchant-owned mobile payment system in part to reduce interchange fees.The heightened focus by merchants and regulatory and legislative bodies on the fees charged by credit and debit card networks, and the ability of certain merchants to successfully negotiate discounts to interchange fees with MasterCard and Visa or develop alternative payment systems could result in a reduction of interchange fees. Any resulting loss in income to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  23Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of ContentsIf We Are Not Able To Invest Successfully In And Introduce Digital And Other Technological Developments Across All Our Businesses, Our Financial Performance May Suffer.Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes and our ability to meet our customers’ needs and expectations is key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings. We expect digital technologies to have a significant impact on banking over time. Consumers increasingly expect robust digital experiences from their financial services providers. The ability for customers to access their accounts and conduct financial transactions using digital technology, including mobile applications, is an increasingly important aspect of the financial services industry and it impacts our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. To that end, financial institutions are rapidly introducing new digital and other technology-driven products and services, which aim to offer a better customer experience and to reduce costs. We continue to invest in digital technology designed to attract new customers, facilitate the ability of existing customers to conduct financial transactions and enhance the customer experience related to our products and services. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using digital technology to provide products and services that efficiently meet their expectations in a cost-effective manner. The development and launch of new digital products and services depends in large part on our capacity to invest in and build the technology platforms that can enable them. We continue to actively invest in such technology platforms, however, we may fail to implement the correct technology, or may fail to do so in a timely manner as discussed in more detail above under the headings “We Face Intense Competition In All Of Our Markets” and “We Face Risks Related To Our Operational, Technological And Organizational Infrastructure.” Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, which may allow those competitors to invest more money into their technology infrastructure and digital innovation than we do. In addition, we face intense competition from smaller companies which experience lower cost structures and different regulatory requirements than we do, and which may allow them to innovate more rapidly than we can. See “We Face Intense Competition In All Of Our Markets.” Further, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain strong digital and technology leaders, engineers and other talent, and competition for such talent is intense. If we are unable to attract and retain digital and technology talent, our ability to offer digital products and services and build the necessary technology infrastructure could be negatively affected, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. A failure to maintain or enhance our competitive position with respect to digital products and services, whether because we fail to anticipate customer expectations or because our technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not implemented in a timely or successful manner, could negatively impact our business and financial results.We May Fail To Realize All Of The Anticipated Benefits Of Our Mergers, Acquisitions And Strategic Partnerships.We have engaged in merger and acquisition activity and entered into strategic partnerships over the past several years and may continue to engage in such activity in the future. We continue to evaluate and anticipate engaging in, among other merger and acquisition activity, additional strategic partnerships and selected acquisitions of financial institutions and other financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios.Any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership we undertake entails certain risks, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we experience greater than anticipated costs to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership, including cost savings and other synergies, our business could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration processes could result in the loss of key employees, errors or delays in systems implementation, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with partners, clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership. Integration efforts also may divert management attention and resources. These integration matters may have an adverse effect on us during any transition period.In addition, we may face the following risks in connection with any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership:•New Businesses and Geographic or Other Markets: Our merger, acquisition or strategic partnership activity may involve our entry into new businesses and new geographic areas or other markets which present risks resulting from our relative inexperience in these new businesses or markets. These new businesses or markets may change the overall character of our consolidated portfolio of businesses and could react differently to economic and other external factors. We face the risk that we will not be successful in these new businesses or in these new markets.•Identification and Assessment of Merger and Acquisition Targets and Deployment of Acquired Assets: We cannot assure you that we will identify or acquire suitable financial assets or institutions to supplement our organic growth through  24Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsacquisitions or strategic partnerships. In addition, we may incorrectly assess the asset quality and value of the particular assets or institutions we acquire. Further, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership will depend on our ability to assess the asset quality and value of the particular assets or institutions we partner with, merge with or acquire. We may be unable to profitably deploy any assets we acquire.•Accuracy of Assumptions: In connection with any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership, we may make certain assumptions relating to the proposed merger, acquisition or strategic partnership that may be, or may prove to be, inaccurate, including as a result of the failure to realize the expected benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership. The inaccuracy of any assumptions we may make could result in unanticipated consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. •Target-specific Risk: Assets and companies that we acquire, or companies that we enter into strategic partnerships with, will have their own risks that are specific to a particular asset or company. These risks include, but are not limited to, particular or specific regulatory, accounting, operational, reputational and industry risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Indemnification rights, if any, may be insufficient to compensate us for any losses or damages resulting from such risks. In addition to regulatory approvals discussed above, certain of our merger, acquisition or partnership activity may require third-party consents in order for us to fully realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction.Reputational Risk And Social Factors May Impact Our Results And Damage Our Brand.Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon the perceptions of consumer and commercial borrowers and deposit holders and other external perceptions of our business and compliance practices or our financial health. In addition, our brand has historically been, and we expect it to continue to be, very important to us. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high-quality products and services. Adverse perceptions regarding our reputation in the consumer, commercial and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. In particular, negative public perceptions regarding our reputation could lead to decreases in the levels of deposits that consumer and commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with us. In addition, negative perceptions regarding certain industries or clients could also prompt us to cease business activities associated with those industries or clients. Negative public opinion or damage to our brand could also result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or circumstances, including lending practices, regulatory compliance, security breaches (including the use and protection of customer information), corporate governance, and sales and marketing, and from actions taken by regulators or other persons in response to such conduct. Such conduct could fall short of our customers’ and the public’s heightened expectations of companies of our size with rigorous data, privacy and compliance practices, and could further harm our reputation. In addition, third parties with whom we have important relationships may take actions over which we have limited control that could negatively impact perceptions about us. The proliferation of social media may increase the likelihood that negative public opinion from any of the events discussed above will impact our reputation and business.In addition, a variety of social factors may cause changes in borrowing activity, including credit card use, payment patterns and the rate of defaults by accountholders and borrowers domestically and internationally. These social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels, the public’s perception regarding consumer debt, including credit card use, and changing attitudes about the stigma of bankruptcy. If consumers develop or maintain negative attitudes about incurring debt, or if consumption trends decline or if we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, or we incur significant expenses in this effort, our business and financial results could be materially and negatively affected.If We Are Not Able To Protect Our Intellectual Property, Our Revenue And Profitability Could Be Negatively Affected.We rely on a variety of measures to protect and enhance our intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure, solicitation and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to and distribution of our other proprietary information. These measures may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights and a resulting loss of competitive advantage. In addition, our competitors or other third parties may file patent applications for innovations that are used in our industry or allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. If our competitors or other third parties are successful in obtaining such patents or prevail in intellectual property-related litigation against us, we could lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant damages. 25Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of ContentsThere Are Risks Resulting From The Extensive Use Of Models In Our Business.We rely on quantitative models to aggregate and assess our various risk exposures and to estimate certain financial values. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting losses, assessing capital adequacy, and calculating economic and regulatory capital levels, as well as to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Poorly designed or implemented models present the risk that our business decisions based on information incorporating models will be adversely affected due to the inadequacy of that information. Also, information we provide to the public or to our regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that our regulators make, including those related to capital distribution to our shareholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient. Any issues with the quality or effectiveness of our data aggregation and validation procedures, as well as the quality and integrity of data inputs, could result in ineffective risk management practices or inaccurate risk reporting. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could materially adversely affect our results of operation or financial condition. Our Risk Management Strategies May Not Be Fully Effective In Mitigating Our Risk Exposures In All Market Environments Or Against All Types Of Risk.Management of risk, including market, credit, liquidity, compliance and strategic risks, requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. See “MD&A—Risk Management” for further details. We have devoted significant resources to developing our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in identifying and mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated, even if our models for assessing risk are properly designed and implemented. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management’s judgment. These methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. For example, market conditions during the financial crisis involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical information to manage risk. In addition, credit risk is inherent in the financial services business and results from, among other things, extending credit to customers. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our consumer and commercial customers become less predictive of future charge-offs (due, for example, to rapid changes in the economy, including the unemployment rate). While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. For example, our ability to implement our risk management strategies may be hindered by adverse changes in the volatility or liquidity conditions in certain markets and as a result, may limit our ability to distribute such risks (for instance, when we seek to syndicate exposure in bridge financing transactions we have underwritten). We may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our risk management or investing activities. Changes In Consumer Behavior And Their Adoption of Digital Technology May Change Retail Distribution Strategies And May Adversely Impact Our Investments In Our Bank Premises And Equipment And Other Retail Distribution Assets, Lead To Increased Expenditures And Expose Us To Additional Risk.We have significant investments in bank premises and equipment for our branch network and other branch banking assets including our full service banking centers, parcels of land held for the development of future banking centers and our retail work force. Advances in technology such as digital and mobile banking, in-branch self-service technologies, proximity or remote payment technologies, as well as progressively changing customer preferences for these other methods of banking, could decrease the value of our branch network or other retail distribution assets. As a result, we may need to change our retail distribution strategy and close, sell and/or renovate certain branches or parcels of land held for development and restructure or reduce our remaining branches and work force. These actions could lead to losses on these assets or could adversely impact the carrying value of other long-lived assets, increase our expenditures, dilute our brand and/or reduce customer demand for our products and services.Further, to the extent that we change our retail distribution strategy and as a result expand into new business areas, we may face more competitors with more experience in the new business areas and more established relationships with relevant customers,  26Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsregulators and industry participants, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. Our competitors may also be subject to less burdensome regulations. See “We Face Intense Competition In All Our Markets.”Fluctuations In Market Interest Rates Or Volatility In The Capital Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Income And Expense, The Value Of Assets And Obligations, Our Regulatory Capital, Cost Of Capital Or Our Liquidity.Like other financial institutions, our business may be sensitive to market interest rate movement and the performance of the capital markets. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility across the capital markets could negatively impact market liquidity and limit our access to liquidity required to operate and grow our business. In addition, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us. For example, we borrow money from other institutions and depositors, which we use to make loans to customers and invest in debt securities and other earning assets. We earn interest on these loans and assets and pay interest on the money we borrow from institutions and depositors. Fluctuations in interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short-term rates and long-term rates and in the relationship between our funding basis rate and our lending basis rate, may have negative impacts on our net interest income and therefore our earnings. In addition, interest rate fluctuations and competitor responses to those changes may affect the rate of customer prepayments for mortgage, auto and other term loans and may affect the balances customers carry on their credit cards. These changes can reduce the overall yield on our earning asset portfolio. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to these changes may also impact customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit accounts they have with us. In addition, changes in valuations in the debt and equity markets could have a negative impact on the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Such market changes could also have a negative impact on the valuation of assets for which we provide servicing. Finally, the Final Basel III Capital Rule requires that most amounts reported in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”), including unrealized gains and losses on securities designated as available for sale, be included in our regulatory capital calculations. Changes in interest rates or market valuations that result in unrealized losses on components of AOCI could therefore impact our regulatory capital ratios negatively.We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction and the magnitude of interest rate changes. We take risk mitigation actions based on those assessments. We face the risk that changes in interest rates could materially reduce our net interest income and our earnings, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than those we assumed. See “MD&A—Market Risk Management” for additional information.Our Business Could Be Negatively Affected If We Are Unable To Attract, Retain And Motivate Skilled Senior Leaders.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key senior leaders, and competition for such senior leaders is intense. The executive compensation provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations issued thereunder, and any further legislation, regulation or regulatory guidance restricting executive compensation, may limit the types of compensation arrangements that we may enter into with our most senior leaders and could have a negative impact on our ability to attract, retain and motivate such leaders in support of our long-term strategy. These laws and regulations may not apply in the same manner to all financial institutions, and we therefore may face more restrictions than other institutions and companies with whom we compete for talent. If we are unable to retain talented senior leadership, our business could be negatively affected.We Face Risks From Unpredictable Catastrophic Events.Despite our substantial business contingency plans, the impact from natural disasters and other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, may have a negative effect on our business and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. In addition, if a natural disaster or other catastrophic event occurs in certain regions where our business and customers are concentrated, such as the mid-Atlantic and New York metropolitan area, we could be disproportionately impacted as compared to our competitors. The impact of such events and other catastrophes on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We Face Risks From The Use Of Or Changes To Assumptions Or Estimates In Our Financial Statements.Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”), we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including determining our allowance for loan and lease losses, the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, and asset impairment, among other items. In addition, the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory bodies may change the financial accounting and reporting standards, including those related to assumptions and estimates we use to prepare our financial statements, in ways that we cannot predict and that could impact our financial statements. If actual results differ from the assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements or if financial accounting and reporting standards are changed, we may experience unexpected material losses. For a discussion of our use of estimates in the preparation of our  27Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsconsolidated financial statements, see “MD&A—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”Limitations On Our Ability To Receive Dividends From Our Subsidiaries Could Affect Our Liquidity And Ability To Pay Dividends And Repurchase Common Stock.We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the Banks. Dividends to us from our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including the Banks, have represented a major source of funds for us to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock, repurchase common stock, make payments on corporate debt securities and meet other obligations. There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. If our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, our liquidity may be affected and we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common or preferred stockholders, repurchase our common stock, make payments on outstanding corporate debt securities or meet other obligations, each and any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or perception of financial health. The Soundness Of Other Financial Institutions And Other Third Parties Could Adversely Affect Us.Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the stability and actions of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, servicing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to an increasing number of financial institutions and counterparties. These counterparties include institutions that may be exposed to various risks over which we have little or no control, including European or U.S. sovereign debt that is currently or may become in the future subject to significant price pressure, rating agency downgrade or default risk.In addition, we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients, resulting in a significant credit concentration with respect to the financial services industry overall. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.Likewise, adverse developments affecting the overall strength and soundness of our competitors, the financial services industry as a whole and the general economic climate or sovereign debt could have a negative impact on perceptions about the strength and soundness of our business even if we are not subject to the same adverse developments. In addition, adverse developments with respect to third parties with whom we have important relationships also could negatively impact perceptions about us. These perceptions about us could cause our business to be negatively affected and exacerbate the other risks that we face.Item 1B