. Risk Factors” in this Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk FactorsBusiness RisksThis section highlights specific risks that could affect our business. Although we have tried to discuss all material risks of which we are aware at the time this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been filed, other risks may prove to be important in the future, including those that are not currently ascertainable. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward looking statements include:Changes In The Macroeconomic Environment May Adversely Affect Our Industry, Business, Results Of Operations And Financial Condition.We offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. We market our credit card products on a national basis throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom and offer banking and other services in many regions within the United States. Although the U.S. economy has improved in recent years, the macroeconomic environment remains unstable and many regions in the world continue to experience economic instability or recession. If a recovery in any of our markets is not sustained or is reversed, the macroeconomic environment may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as customers default on their loans or maintain lower deposit levels or, in the case of credit card accounts, carry lower balances and reduce credit card purchase activity.In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with adverse changes in macroeconomic environment:•Payment patterns may change, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, changes in consumer confidence levels and behavior, including decreased consumer spending, lower demand for credit and a shift in consumer payment behavior towards avoiding late fees, finance charges and other fees, could have a negative impact on our results of operations.•Increases in bankruptcies could cause increases in our charge-off rates, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.•Our ability to recover debt that we have previously charged-off may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.•The process and models we use to estimate our allowance for loan and lease losses may become less reliable if actual losses diverge from the projections of our models as a result of changes in customer behavior, volatile economic conditions or other unexpected variations in key inputs and assumptions. As a result, our estimates for credit losses may become increasingly subject to management’s judgment and high levels of volatility over short periods of time, which could negatively impact on our results of operations.•Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the criteria or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations.•Significant concern exists regarding risks associated with financial market instability related to the diverging policies of global central banks. In particular, the Federal Reserve has moved toward a less accommodative policy stance while central banks in other major economies, notably Europe and China, have taken steps to further ease monetary policy. This divergence in Federal Reserve policy relative to other major central bank policies has impacted financial markets globally, including in the United States. These changes have increased financial market volatility. Financial market instability worldwide could threaten the economic recoveries both globally and in the United States, which could have a negative impact on our financial results.  15Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contents•Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, which could limit our access to funding. The interest rates that we pay on the securities we have issued are also influenced by, among other things, applicable credit ratings from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to any of these credit ratings could affect our ability to access the capital markets, increase our borrowing costs and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Increased charge-offs, rising London Interbank Offering Rate ("LIBOR") and other events may cause our securitization transactions to amortize earlier than scheduled, which could accelerate our need for additional funding from other sources.•An inability to accept or maintain deposits or to obtain other sources of funding could materially affect our ability to fund our business and our liquidity position. Many other financial institutions have also increased their reliance on deposit funding and, as such, we expect continued competition in the deposit markets. We cannot predict how this competition will affect our costs. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted.•Shorter-term interest rates have remained at historically low levels for a prolonged period of time. In addition, longer-term interest rates have recently declined, resulting in a flatter yield curve. Both shorter-term and longer-term interest rates remain below historical averages. A flat yield curve combined with low interest rates generally leads to lower revenue and reduced margins because it would limit our opportunity to increase the spread between asset yields and funding costs. Sustained periods of time with a flat yield curve coupled with low interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our net interest margin. •The low interest rate environment also increases our exposure to prepayment risk in our mortgage portfolio and the mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio. Increased prepayments, refinancing or other factors that impact loan balances would reduce expected revenue associated with mortgage assets and could also lead to a reduction in the value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could have a negative impact on our financial results.Compliance With New And Existing Laws, Regulations And Regulatory Expectations May Increase Our Costs, Reduce Our Revenue, Limit Our Ability To Pursue Business Opportunities, And Increase Compliance Challenges.There has been increased legislation and regulation with respect to the financial services industry in the last few years, and we expect that oversight of our business will continue to expand in scope and complexity. A wide and increasing array of banking and consumer lending laws apply to almost every aspect of our business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural and operational penalties, including receivership, and could result in negative publicity or damage to our reputation with regulators or the public. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the related rules and regulations adopted by various regulatory agencies, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act is a comprehensive financial reform act that requires, among other things, enhanced prudential standards (including capital, liquidity, risk management, single-counterparty credit exposure limits, early remediation, and resolution planning), enhanced supervision (including stress testing), prohibitions on proprietary trading and investments in covered funds (referred to as the “Volcker Rule”) and increased transparency and regulation of derivatives trading. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides heightened expectations for risk management and regulatory oversight of all aspects of large financial institutions, including us. Many aspects of the law remain to be implemented under the rulemaking and regulatory authority of the SEC, the CFTC and federal banking regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the CFPB, which regulates our businesses with respect to our compliance with certain consumer laws and regulations and trade practices.Although it is clear that the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations materially impact large financial institutions like us, the rulemaking and related interpretive process has been progressing methodically, and we may not experience the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act for years. Though some aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act may significantly impact our financial condition or results of operations, other aspects of the law may not apply to us. Nevertheless, the law has increased our need to build new compliance processes and infrastructure and to otherwise enhance our risk management throughout all aspects of our business. The cumulative impact includes higher expectations for the amount of capital and liquidity we must maintain, as discussed in more detail below under the heading “We May Not Be Able To Maintain Adequate Capital Or Liquidity Levels, Which Could Have A Negative Impact On Our Financial Results,” and higher operational costs, which may further increase once regulators fully implement the law. In addition, U.S. government agencies charged with adopting and interpreting laws, rules and regulations,  16Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsincluding under the Dodd-Frank Act, may do so in an unforeseen manner, including ways that potentially expand the reach of the laws, rules or regulations more than initially contemplated or currently anticipated.Some rules and regulations may be subject to litigation or other challenges that delay or modify their implementation and impact on us. For example, rules implementing the Dodd-Frank Act’s requirement that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card transactions be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction are currently subject to challenge. It is unclear how the ruling and appeal will impact the Federal Reserve’s interchange fee rules. Future changes in the Federal Reserve’s interchange fee rules could adversely impact revenue from our debit card business.Under various state and federal statutes and regulations, we are required to observe various data security and privacy-related requirements, including establishing appropriate information security standards and safeguards, data security breach response programs and properly authenticating customers before processing or enabling certain types of transactions or interactions. Future federal and state legislation and regulation could further restrict how we collect, use, share and secure customer information. The failure to observe any one or more of these requirements could subject us to litigation or enforcement actions and impact some of our current or planned business initiatives.We have a large number of customer accounts in our credit card and auto lending businesses and we have made the strategic choice to originate and service subprime credit cards and auto loans which typically have higher delinquencies and charge-offs than prime customers.   Accordingly, we have significant involvement with credit bureau reporting and the collection and recovery of delinquent and charged off debt.  The banking industry is subject to enhanced legal and regulatory scrutiny regarding credit bureau reporting and debt collection practices from regulators, courts and legislators. In addition, over the last several years, state and federal regulators have focused on compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws, data integrity and security, use of service providers, fair lending and other consumer protection issues. Any future changes to our business practices, including our debt collection practices, whether mandated by regulators, courts, legislators or otherwise, or any legal liabilities resulting from our business practices, including our debt collection practices, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition.We are subject to heightened regulatory oversight by the federal banking regulators to ensure that we build systems and processes that are commensurate with the nature of our business and that meet the heightened risk management and enhanced prudential standards issued by our regulators. We expect this heightened oversight will continue for the foreseeable future until we meet the expectations of our regulators and can demonstrate that our systems and processes are sustainable.The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and may negatively influence our revenue, costs, earnings, growth and capital levels. Certain laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, may benefit consumers, borrowers and depositors, but not stockholders. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations. For a description of the material laws and regulations to which we are subject, please refer to “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.”We May Experience Increased Delinquencies And Credit Losses.Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. Rising losses or leading indicators of rising losses (such as higher delinquencies, higher rates of non-performing loans, higher bankruptcy rates, lower collateral values or elevated unemployment rates) may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which may degrade our profitability if we are unable to raise revenue or reduce costs to compensate for higher losses. In particular, we face the following risks in this area:•Missed Payments: Our customers may miss payments. Loan charge-offs (including from bankruptcies) are generally preceded by missed payments or other indications of worsening financial condition for our customers. Customers are more likely to miss payments during an economic downturn or prolonged periods of slow economic growth. In addition, we face the risk that consumer and commercial customer behavior may change (for example, an increase in the unwillingness or inability of customers to repay debt), causing a long-term rise in delinquencies and charge-offs.•Estimates of Inherent Losses: The credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We allow for and reserve against credit risks based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolios. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions. We may underestimate our inherent losses and fail to hold a loan loss allowance sufficient to account for these losses. Incorrect assumptions could lead to material underestimations of inherent losses and inadequate allowance for loan and lease losses. In cases where we modify a loan, if the modifications do not perform as anticipated we may be  17Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsrequired to build additional allowance on these loans. The build or release of allowances impacts our current financial results.•Underwriting: Our ability to assess the credit worthiness of our customers may diminish. If the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our consumer and commercial customers become less predictive of future charge-offs (due, for example, to rapid changes in the economy, including the unemployment rate), our credit losses may increase and our returns may deteriorate.•Business Mix: We engage in a diverse mix of businesses with a broad range of potential credit exposure. Our business mix could change in ways that could adversely affect the credit quality of our portfolio. Because we originate a relatively greater proportion of consumer loans in our loan portfolio compared to other large bank peers and originate both prime and subprime credit card accounts and auto loans, we may experience higher delinquencies and a greater number of accounts charging off compared to other large bank peers, which could result in increased credit losses, operating costs and regulatory scrutiny.•Charge-off Recognition: The rules governing charge-off recognition could change. We record charge-offs according to accounting and regulatory guidelines and rules. These guidelines and rules, including Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") standards and the FFIEC Account Management Guidance, could require changes in our account management or loss allowance practices and cause our charge-offs and/or allowance for loan and lease losses to increase for reasons unrelated to the underlying performance of our portfolio. Such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operation.•Industry Developments: Our charge-off and delinquency rates may be negatively impacted by industry developments, including new regulations applicable to our industry.•Collateral: The collateral we have on secured loans could be insufficient to compensate us for loan losses. When customers default on their secured loans, we attempt to seize collateral where permissible and appropriate. However, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to compensate us for the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Decreases in real estate values adversely affect the collateral value for our commercial lending and Home Loan activities, while the auto business is similarly exposed to collateral risks arising from the auction markets that determine used car prices. Therefore, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the value of these loans. Borrowers may be less likely to continue making payments on loans if the value of the property used as collateral for the loan is less than what the borrower owes, even if the borrower is still financially able to make the payments. Trends in home prices are a driver of credit costs in our home loan business as they impact both the probability of default and the loss severity of defaults. Additionally, the potential volatility in the number of defaulted and modified loans from changes in home prices can create material impacts on the servicing costs of the business, fluctuations in credit marks and profitability in acquired portfolios and volatility in mortgage servicing rights valuations. Although home prices have generally appreciated recently, the slow economic recovery, shifts in monetary policy and potentially diminishing demands from investors could threaten or limit the recovery.  In our auto business, if vehicle prices experience declines, we could be adversely affected. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively affect household incomes, housing prices, and consumer behavior related to our businesses could decrease (1) the demand for new and used vehicles and (2) the value of the collateral underlying our portfolio of auto loans, which could cause the number of consumers who become delinquent or default on their loans to increase.  •Geographic and Industry Concentration. Although our consumer lending is geographically diversified, approximately 37% of our commercial loan portfolio is concentrated in the New York metropolitan area. The regional economic conditions in the New York area affect the demand for our commercial products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay their commercial loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. An economic downturn or prolonged period of slow economic growth in, or a catastrophic event that disproportionately affects, the New York region could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our commercial loan portfolio and our results of operations. In addition, our Commercial Bank’s strategy includes an industry-specific focus. If any of the industries that we focus in experience changes, we may experience increased credit losses and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.We May Experience Increased Losses Associated With Mortgage Repurchases And Indemnification Obligations.Certain of our subsidiaries, including GreenPoint Mortgage Funding, Inc. (“GreenPoint”), Capital One Home Loans, LLC and Capital One, N.A., as successor to Chevy Chase Bank (“CCB”), may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that have been  18Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentssold to investors in the event there are breaches of certain representations and warranties contained within the sales agreements. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we sell to investors in the event that there was improper underwriting or fraud or in the event that the loans become delinquent shortly after they are originated. These subsidiaries also may be required to indemnify certain purchasers and others against losses they incur in the event of breaches of representations and warranties and in various other circumstances, including securities fraud or other public disclosure-related claims, and the amount of such losses could exceed the repurchase amount of the related loans. Consequently, we may be exposed to credit risk associated with sold loans.We have established reserves in our consolidated financial statements for potential losses that are considered to be both probable and reasonably estimable related to the mortgage loans sold by our originating subsidiaries. The adequacy of the reserve and the ultimate amount of losses incurred will depend on, among other things, the actual future mortgage loan performance, the actual level of future repurchase and indemnification requests, the actual success rate of claimants, developments in litigation and the regulatory environment related to us and the industry, actual recoveries on the collateral, and macroeconomic conditions (including unemployment levels and housing prices). Due to uncertainties relating to these factors, there can be no assurance that our reserves will be adequate or that the total amount of losses incurred will not have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our mortgage loan repurchase and indemnification obligations and related reserves and our estimate of the reasonably possible future losses from representation and warranty claims beyond the current accrual levels as of December 31, 2014, see “Note 20—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.”We May Not Be Able To Maintain Adequate Capital Or Liquidity Levels, Which Could Have A Negative Impact On Our Financial Results.As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and international accords, financial institutions are becoming subject to new and increased capital and liquidity requirements. Although U.S. regulators have finalized regulations for some of these requirements, there remains continued uncertainty as to the form the additional new requirements will take or how and when they will apply to us. As a result, it is possible that we could be required to increase our capital and/or liquidity levels above the levels assumed in our current financial plans. These new requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances or make acquisitions and limit our ability to make capital distributions in the form of dividends or share repurchases. Higher capital levels also lower our return on equity. In addition, as described further below, for regulatory capital purposes we entered parallel run on January 1, 2015 and, therefore, could become subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework as early as January 1, 2016 for purposes of determining our regulatory capital requirements.  Although we have current estimates of risk-weighted asset calculations under that framework, there remains uncertainty around future regulatory interpretations of certain aspects of those calculations. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our current estimates will be correct, and we may need to hold significantly more regulatory capital in the future than we currently estimate to maintain a given capital ratio.Recent developments in capital and liquidity requirements that we expect will impact us include the following:•In December 2010, the Basel Committee published a final framework on capital and in January 2013 published a revised framework on liquidity, together commonly known as Basel III. In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators finalized rules implementing the Basel III capital framework and other capital requirements, including pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act (the “Final Basel III Capital Rules”). Among other things, the Final Basel III Capital Rules: increase the general risk-based and leverage capital requirements; significantly revise the definition of regulatory capital, including by eliminating certain items that previously constituted regulatory capital; establish a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital requirement; introduce a new capital conservation buffer requirement; and update the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the new regulatory capital minimums.  •Under the Final Basel III Capital Rules, institutions like the Company and the Banks are subject to a Standardized Approach and an Advanced Approaches capital framework.  For Advanced Approaches institutions like us, the Final Basel III Capital Rules also included a supplementary leverage ratio based upon the Basel Committee leverage ratio. In September 2014, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule that revised the supplementary leverage ratio consistent with revisions made by the Basel Committee, including by modifying the methodology for including off-balance sheet items in the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio and by requiring institutions to calculate total leverage exposure using daily averages for on-balance sheet items and the average of three month-end calculations for off-balance sheet items. The supplementary leverage ratio will become effective January 1, 2018.  19Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contents•As a financial institution with consolidated assets of more than $250 billion, we became subject to the Advanced Approaches framework at the end of 2012. Prior to full implementation of the Advanced Approaches framework, an organization must complete a qualification period of four consecutive quarters, known as the parallel run, during which it must meet the requirements of the rules to the satisfaction of its primary U.S. banking regulator. We entered parallel run on January 1, 2015. Compliance with the Advanced Approaches rules will require a significant investment of resources. •In September 2014, the Federal Banking Agencies issued final rules implementing the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio in the United States (the “Final LCR Rule”). The Final LCR Rule will require the Company and each of the Banks to hold an amount of eligible high-quality, liquid assets that equals or exceeds 100% of each institution’s respective projected net cash outflows over a 30-day period, each as calculated in accordance with the Final LCR Rule. We have been modifying the composition of our investment portfolio in preparation for the Final LCR Rule, with some of these actions resulting in us purchasing types of securities that are lower yielding than securities we would otherwise be purchasing if not for the Final LCR Rule.•Because we are a bank holding company with consolidated assets of more than $50 billion, we are subject to certain heightened prudential standards under the Dodd-Frank Act, including requirements that may be recommended by the Financial Stability Oversight Council and implemented by the Federal Reserve. As a result, we expect to be subject to more stringent standards and requirements than those applicable for smaller institutions, including risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits and liquidity requirements. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve released proposed rules beginning to implement the enhanced prudential requirements, including a detailed liquidity framework that would supplement the liquidity regulations implementing Basel III.  The Federal Reserve finalized certain of the proposed rules on February 18, 2014 (“Enhanced Standards Rule”). Under the Enhanced Standards Rule, we must meet liquidity risk management standards, conduct internal liquidity stress tests, and maintain a 30-day buffer of highly liquid assets to cover cash-flow needs under stressed conditions, in each case consistent with the requirements of the rule.•Under the Federal Reserve’s Capital Plan Rule, bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more must submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis and must obtain approval from the Federal Reserve before making most capital distributions, such as dividends and share repurchases, in a process commonly referred to as CCAR. As part of its evaluation of a capital plan, the Federal Reserve will consider the comprehensiveness of the plan, the reasonableness of assumptions and analysis and methodologies used to assess capital adequacy, and other qualitative factors at the discretion of the Federal Reserve. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve will consider our ability to maintain capital ratios above each Basel III minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5.0% on a pro forma basis under baseline and stressed conditions throughout a planning horizon of at least nine quarters. In the 2015 capital plan and stress test cycles, we will be required to meet Basel III Standardized Approach capital requirements, with appropriate phase-in provisions. On October 17, 2014, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule regarding the Capital Plan and Stress Test Rules that, among other things, limits the ability of a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets to make capital distributions under the capital plan rule if the bank holding company’s net capital issuances are less than the amount indicated in its capital plan. •We consider various factors in the management of capital, including the impact of stress on our capital levels, as determined by both our internal modeling and the Federal Reserve’s modeling of our capital position in CCAR. In recent stress test cycles, including CCAR, we have observed a large difference between our estimates of our capital levels under stress and the Federal Reserve’s estimates of our capital levels under stress. In the current stress test cycle, including CCAR, the difference could be larger because we expect the Federal Reserve to continue to use its own assumptions in modeling results. Therefore, although our estimated capital levels under stress suggest that we have substantial capacity to return capital to shareholders and remain well capitalized under stress, it is possible that the Federal Reserve’s modeling may result in a materially lower capacity to return capital to shareholders than our estimates.See “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information.We Face Risk Related To Our Operational, Technological And Organizational Infrastructure.Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire necessary operational, technological and organizational infrastructure. We are embedding technology, data, and software development deeply into our business model and how we work. We are focused on building reusable plug-and-play middleware, developing and designing modern software, integrating our platforms and making them scalable, and building a powerful and flexible data infrastructure. For example, we have substantially completed significant development projects to achieve the systems integration of prior acquisitions and to build  20Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsa scalable infrastructure in our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses. We have also invested in infrastructure in the Commercial Banking business intended to assist with effective execution of key processes and improve loan origination and underwriting platforms. In the Credit Card business, we have invested in our infrastructure in order to consolidate and simplify system and portfolio conversions.  In addition, our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk, particularly in the event of breakdowns or failures of such parties’ own systems. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, cyber-attacks, including DDOS discussed below, natural disasters, other damage to property or physical assets or events arising from local or larger scale politics, including terrorist acts. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate our businesses, service customer accounts, and protect customers’ information, or result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage, regulatory intervention and customers’ loss of confidence in our businesses, any of which could result in a material adverse effect.Similar to other large corporations, we are exposed to operational risk that can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, inaccurate models, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or persons outside of our company and exposure to external events. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the strength and capability of our technology systems which we use to manage our internal financial and other systems, interface with our customers and develop and implement effective marketing campaigns. We also depend on models to measure risks, estimate certain financial values, determine pricing on certain products, assess capital adequacy and calculate regulatory capital levels. If we implement or design our models poorly or use inaccurate assumptions in our models, business decisions based on the output of the models may be adversely affected. Moreover, information we disclose to investors and our regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate. Some decisions our regulators make, including those related to our capital distribution plans, may be adversely impacted if they perceive the quality of our models to be insufficient. Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers and attract new ones and to run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations depends on the functionality and reliability of our operational and technology systems. Any disruptions, failures or inaccuracies of our operational and technology systems and models, including those associated with improvements or modifications to such systems and models, could cause us to be unable to market and manage our products and services, manage our risk or to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner, all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.In some cases, we outsource the maintenance and development of operational and technological functionality to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Any increase in the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to third parties may increase our exposure to these risks.Our ongoing investments in infrastructure, which are necessary to maintain a competitive business, integrate acquisitions and establish scalable operations, may increase our expenses. Further, as our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise as a result of a reevaluation of business strategies, management of outsourced services, asset purchases or other acquisitions, structural reorganization, compliance with new laws or regulations or the integration of newly acquired businesses. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may also be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or strengthen our protective security measures, investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities of our information systems and infrastructure or invest in new technology designed to mitigate security risks.  If we are unable to successfully manage our expenses, our financial results will be negatively affected.We Could Incur Increased Costs Or Reductions In Revenue Or Suffer Reputational Damage And Business Disruptions In The Event Of The Theft, Loss Or Misuse Of Information, Including As A Result Of A Cyber-Attack.Our products and services involve the gathering, storage and transmission of sensitive information regarding our customers and their accounts. Our ability to provide such products and services, many of which are web-based, relies upon the management and safeguarding of information, software, methodologies and business secrets. To provide these products and services, we use information systems and infrastructure that we and third-party service providers operate. We also have arrangements in place with retail partners and other third parties where we share and receive information about their customers who are or may become our customers. As a financial institution, we also are subject to and examined for compliance with an array of data protection laws,  21Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsregulations and guidance, as well as to our own internal privacy and information security policies and programs. If our information systems or infrastructure experience a significant disruption or breach, it could lead, depending on the nature of the disruption or breach, to unauthorized access to personal or confidential information of our customers in our possession or unauthorized access to our proprietary information, software, methodologies and business secrets. In addition, if our partners, retailers or other market participants experience a disruption or breach, depending on the nature of the disruption or breach, it could lead to unauthorized transactions on Capital One accounts or unauthorized access to personal or confidential information maintained by those entities.  A disruption or breach such as these could result in significant legal and financial exposure, regulatory intervention, remediation costs, card reissuance, supervisory liability, damage to our reputation or loss of confidence in the security of our systems, products and services that could adversely affect our business.Information security risks for large financial institutions like us have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists, activists, formal and informal instrumentalities of foreign governments and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use computers, smartphones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems. Although we believe we have a robust suite of authentication and layered information security controls, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers’ devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or other attacks that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary or other information, including access to accounts with online functionality, which could result in disruptions and damage to the business operations or finances of Capital One, our customers or other third parties. For example, we and other U.S. financial services providers continue to be targeted with evolving and adaptive distributed DDOS attacks from sophisticated third parties. DDOS attacks are designed to saturate the targeted online network with excessive amounts of network traffic, resulting in slow response times or even causing the site to be temporarily unavailable. On at least one occasion, a DDOS attack successfully disrupted our consumer online banking services for a period of time, which had a non-material impact on our business. Although we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber incidents, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. If future attacks like these are successful or if customers are unable to access their accounts online for other reasons, it could adversely impact our ability to service customer accounts or loans, complete financial transactions for our customers or otherwise operate any of our businesses or services. In addition, a breach or attack affecting one of our third-party service providers or partners could harm our business even if we do not control the service that is attacked.Because the methods and techniques employed by perpetrators of fraud and others to attack, disable, degrade or sabotage platforms, systems and applications change frequently, are increasingly sophisticated and often are not fully recognized or understood until after they have been launched, we and our third-party service providers and partners may be unable to anticipate certain attack methods in order to implement effective preventative measures. In addition, the increasing prevalence of cyber-attacks and other efforts to breach or disrupt our systems or those of our partners, retailers or other market participants has led, and will likely continue to lead, to increased costs to us with respect to preventing, mitigating and remediating these risks, as well as any related attempted fraud. For example, various retailers have recently been victims of cyber-attacks in which customer data, including debit and credit card information, was obtained.  In these situations, we incur a variety of costs, including those associated with replacing the compromised cards and remediating fraudulent transaction activity. Further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are impacted, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general which could result in reduced use of our financial products. Though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, it may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event.We May Fail To Realize All Of The Anticipated Benefits Of Our Mergers, Acquisitions And Strategic Partnerships.We have engaged in merger and acquisition activity and entered into strategic partnerships over the past several years and may continue to engage in such activity in the future. We continue to evaluate and anticipate engaging in, among other merger and acquisition activity, additional strategic partnerships and selected acquisitions of financial institutions and other financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios.Any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership we undertake will entail certain risks, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we experience greater than anticipated costs to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership, including cost savings and other synergies, our business could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration processes could  22Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentsresult in the loss of key employees, errors or delays in systems implementation, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with partners, clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership. Integration efforts also may divert management attention and resources. These integration matters may have an adverse effect on us during any transition period.In addition, we may face the following risks in connection with any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership:•New Businesses and Geographic or Other Markets: Our merger, acquisition or strategic partnership activity may involve our entry into new businesses and new geographic areas or other markets which present risks resulting from our relative inexperience in these new businesses or markets. These new businesses or markets may change the overall character of our consolidated portfolio of businesses and could react differently to economic and other external factors. We face the risk that we will not be successful in these new businesses or in these new markets.•Identification and Assessment of Merger and Acquisition Targets and Deployment of Acquired Assets: We cannot assure you that we will identify or acquire suitable financial assets or institutions to supplement our organic growth through acquisitions or strategic partnerships. In addition, we may incorrectly assess the asset quality and value of the particular assets or institutions we acquire. Further, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership will depend on our ability to assess the asset quality and value of the particular assets or institutions we partner with, merge with or acquire. We may be unable to profitably deploy any assets we acquire.•Accuracy of Assumptions: In connection with any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership, we may make certain assumptions relating to the proposed merger, acquisition or strategic partnership that may be, or may prove to be, inaccurate, including as a result of the failure to realize the expected benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership. The inaccuracy of any assumptions we may make could result in unanticipated consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Assumptions we might make when considering a proposed merger, acquisition or strategic partnership may relate to numerous matters, including:•projections of a target or partner company’s future net income and our earnings per share;•our ability to issue equity and debt to complete any merger or acquisition;•our expected capital structure and capital ratios after any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership; •projections as to the amount of future loan losses in any target or partner company’s portfolio;•the amount of goodwill and intangibles that will result from any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership;•certain purchase accounting adjustments that we expect will be recorded in our financial statements in connection with any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership;•cost, deposit, cross-selling and balance sheet synergies in connection with any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership; •merger, acquisition or strategic partnership costs, including restructuring charges and transaction costs;•our ability to maintain, develop and deepen relationships with customers of a target or partner company;•our ability to grow a target or partner company’s customer deposits and manage a target or partner company’s assets and liabilities; •higher than expected transaction and integration costs and unknown liabilities as well as general economic and business conditions that adversely affect the combined company following any merger or acquisition transaction;•the extent and nature of regulatory oversight over a target or partner company;•projected or expected tax benefits or assets; 23Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contents•accounting matters related to the target or partner company, including accuracy of assumptions and estimates used in preparation of financial statements such as those used to determine allowance for loan losses, fair value of certain assets and liabilities, securities impairment and realization of deferred tax assets; and•our expectations regarding macroeconomic conditions, including the unemployment rate, housing prices, the interest rate environment, the shape of the yield curve, inflation and other economic indicators; and other financial and strategic risks associated with any merger or acquisition. •Target Specific Risk: Assets and companies that we acquire, or companies that we enter into strategic partnerships with, will have their own risks that are specific to a particular asset or company. These risks include, but are not limited to, particular or specific regulatory, accounting, operational, reputational and industry risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Indemnification rights, if any, may be insufficient to compensate us for any losses or damages resulting from such risks. In addition to regulatory approvals discussed above, certain of our merger, acquisition or partnership activity may require third-party consents in order for us to fully realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction.Reputational Risk And Social Factors May Impact Our Results And Damage Our Brand.Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon the perceptions of consumer and commercial borrowers and deposit holders and other external perceptions of our business practices or our financial health. In addition, our brand has historically been, and we expect it to continue to be, very important to us. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high-quality products and services. Adverse perceptions regarding our reputation in the consumer, commercial and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. In particular, negative public perceptions regarding our reputation could lead to decreases in the levels of deposits that consumer and commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with us. In addition, negative perceptions regarding certain industries or clients could also prompt us to cease business activities associated with those industries or clients. Negative public opinion or damage to our brand could result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or circumstances, including lending practices, regulatory compliance, security breaches (including the use and protection of customer information), corporate governance, and sales and marketing, and from actions taken by regulators or other persons in response to such conduct. In addition, third parties with whom we have important relationships may take actions over which we have limited control that could negatively impact perceptions about us.In addition, a variety of social factors may cause changes in borrowing activity, including credit card use, payment patterns and the rate of defaults by accountholders and borrowers domestically and internationally. These social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels, the public’s perception regarding consumer debt, including credit card use, and changing attitudes about the stigma of bankruptcy. If consumers develop or maintain negative attitudes about incurring debt, or if consumption trends decline or if we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, or we incur significant expenses in this effort, our business and financial results could be materially and negatively affected.We Face Intense Competition In All Of Our Markets.We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we expect competitive conditions to continue to intensify. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. We compete on the basis of the rates we pay on deposits and the rates and other terms we charge on the loans we originate or purchase, as well as the quality of our customer service and experience.  Price competition for loans might result in origination of fewer loans or earning less on our loans. We expect that competition will continue to increase with respect to most of our products. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, which may give those competitors advantages, including a more diversified product and customer base, the ability to reach out to more customers and potential customers, operational efficiencies, more versatile technology platforms, broad-based local distribution capabilities, lower-cost funding and larger existing branch networks. In addition, some of our competitors, including new and emerging competitors in the digital and mobile payments space, are not subject to the same regulatory requirements or legislative scrutiny to which we are subject, which also could place us at a competitive disadvantage.  Many of our competitors are focusing on cross-selling their products and developing new products or technologies, which could affect our ability to maintain or grow existing customer relationships or require us to offer lower interest rates or fees on our lending products or higher interest rates on deposits.  This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation,  24Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of Contentschanges in technology and product delivery systems, as well as the consolidation of financial service providers, all of which may affect our customers’ expectations and demands.We operate the largest online direct banking institution in the U.S. by deposits. While direct banking represents a significant opportunity to attract new customers that value greater and more flexible access to banking services at reduced costs, it also presents significant risks and we face strong competition in the direct banking market. Aggressive pricing throughout the industry may adversely affect the retention of existing balances and the cost-efficient acquisition of new deposit funds and may affect our growth and profitability. In addition, the effects of a competitive environment may be exacerbated by the flexibility of direct banking and the increasing financial and technological sophistication of our customer base. Customers could also close their online accounts or reduce balances or deposits in favor of products and services offered by competitors for other reasons. These shifts, which could be rapid, could result from general dissatisfaction with our products or services, including concerns over pricing, online security or our reputation.We have significantly expanded our credit card partnership business over the past several years with the additions of a number of credit card partnerships. The market for key business partners, especially in the Credit Card business, is very competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to grow or maintain these partner relationships. We face the risk that we could lose partner relationships, even after we have invested significant resources, time and expense into acquiring and developing the relationships. The loss of any of our business partners could have a negative impact on our results of operations, including lower returns, excess operating expense and excess funding capacity.In such a competitive environment, we may lose entire accounts or may lose account balances to competing firms, or we may find it more costly to maintain our existing customer base. Customer attrition from any or all of our lending products, together with any lowering of interest rates or fees that we might implement to retain customers, could reduce our revenues and therefore our earnings. Similarly, unexpected customer attrition from our deposit products, in addition to an increase in rates or services that we may offer to retain those deposits, may increase our expenses and therefore reduce our earnings.If We Do Not Adjust To Rapid Changes In The Financial Services Industry, Our Financial Performance May Suffer.Our ability to deliver to stockholders strong financial performance and returns on investment will depend in part on our ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of our customers, including by marketing new products to our customer base. Our ability to meet our customers’ needs and expectations is key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings. We expect digital technologies to have a significant impact on banking over time. Consumers increasingly expect robust digital experiences from their financial services providers. The ability for customers to access their accounts and conduct financial transactions using digital technology, including mobile applications, is an increasingly important aspect of the financial services industry and it impacts our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. To that end, financial institutions are rapidly introducing new digital and other technology-driven products and services, which aim to offer a better customer experience and to reduce costs. We continue to invest in digital technology designed to attract new customers, facilitate the ability of existing customers to conduct financial transactions and enhance the customer experience related to our products and services.  Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using digital technology to provide products and services that efficiently meet their expectations in a cost-effective manner.  The development and launch of new digital products and services depends in large part on our capacity to invest in and build the technology platforms that can enable them. We continue to actively invest in such technology platforms, however, we may fail to implement the correct technology, or may fail to do so in a timely manner as discussed in more detail below under the heading “We Face Risk Related To Our Operational, Technological And Organizational Infrastructure.” As noted above, some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, which may allow those competitors to invest more money into their technology infrastructure and digital innovation than we do. In addition, we face intense competition from smaller companies which experience lower cost structures and different regulatory requirements than we do, and which may allow them to innovate more rapidly than we can. Further, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain strong digital and technology leaders, engineers and other talent, and competition for such talent is intense. If we are unable to attract and retain digital and technology talent, our ability to offer digital products and services and build the necessary technology infrastructure could be negatively affected, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. A failure to maintain or enhance our competitive position with respect to digital products and services, whether because we fail to anticipate customer expectations or because our technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not implemented in a timely or successful manner, could negatively impact our business and financial results. 25Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of ContentsFluctuations In Market Interest Rates Or Volatility In The Capital Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue And Expense, The Value Of Assets And Obligations, Our Cost Of Capital Or Our Liquidity.Like other financial institutions, our business may be sensitive to market interest rate movement and the performance of the capital markets. Changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us. For example, we borrow money from other institutions and depositors, which we use to make loans to customers and invest in debt securities and other earning assets. We earn interest on these loans and assets and pay interest on the money we borrow from institutions and depositors. Fluctuations in interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short-term rates and long-term rates and in the relationship between our funding basis rate and our lending basis rate, may have negative impacts on our net interest income and therefore our earnings. In addition, interest rate fluctuations and competitor responses to those changes may affect the rate of customer prepayments for mortgage, auto and other term loans and may affect the balances customers carry on their credit cards. These changes can reduce the overall yield on our earning asset portfolio. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to these changes may also impact customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit accounts they have with us. In addition, changes in valuations in the debt and equity markets could have a negative impact on the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Such market changes could also have a negative impact on the valuation of assets for which we provide servicing. Finally, the Final Rule requires that most amounts reported in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI"), including unrealized gains and losses on securities designated as available for sale, be included in our regulatory capital calculations. Changes in interest rates or market valuations that result in unrealized losses on components of AOCI could therefore impact our regulatory capital ratios negatively.  We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction and the magnitude of interest rate changes. We take risk mitigation actions based on those assessments. We face the risk that changes in interest rates could materially reduce our net interest income and our earnings, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than those we assumed. See “MD&A—Market Risk Management” for additional information.Our Business Could Be Negatively Affected If We Are Unable To Attract, Retain And Motivate Skilled Senior Leaders.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key senior leaders, and competition for such senior leaders is intense. The executive compensation provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations issued thereunder, and any further legislation, regulation or regulatory guidance restricting executive compensation, may limit the types of compensation arrangements that we may enter into with our most senior leaders and could have a negative impact on our ability to attract, retain and motivate such leaders in support of our long-term strategy. These laws and regulations may not apply in the same manner to all financial institutions, and we therefore may face more restrictions than other institutions and companies with whom we compete for talent. If we are unable to retain talented senior leadership, our business could be negatively affected.Our Businesses Are Subject To The Risk Of Increased Litigation.Our businesses are subject to increased litigation risks as a result of a number of factors and from various sources, including the highly regulated nature of the financial services industry, the focus of state and federal prosecutors on banks and the financial services industry, the structure of the credit card industry and business practices in the mortgage lending business. Given the inherent uncertainties involved in litigation, and the very large or indeterminate damages sought in some matters asserted against us, there can be significant uncertainty as to the ultimate liability we may incur from litigation matters. The finding, or even the assertion, of substantial legal liability against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and could cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business.We Face Risks From Unpredictable Catastrophic Events.Despite our substantial business contingency plans, the impact from natural disasters and other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, may have a negative effect on our business and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. In addition, if a natural disaster or other catastrophic event occurs in certain regions where our business and customers are concentrated, such as the mid-Atlantic and New York metropolitan area, we could be disproportionately impacted as compared to our competitors. The impact of such events and other catastrophes on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 26Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)Table of ContentsWe Face Risks From The Use Of Or Changes To Estimates In Our Financial Statements.Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”), we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including, but not limited to, estimating our allowance for loan and lease losses and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. In addition, the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory bodies may change the financial accounting and reporting standards, including those related to assumptions and estimates we use to prepare our financial statements, in ways that we cannot predict and that could impact our financial statements. If actual results differ from the assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements or if financial accounting and reporting standards are changed, we may experience unexpected material losses. For a discussion of our use of estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, see “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”Our Ability To Receive Dividends From Our Subsidiaries Could Affect Our Liquidity And Ability To Pay Dividends And Repurchase Common Stock.We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the Banks. Dividends to us from our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including the Banks, have represented a major source of funds for us to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock, repurchase common stock, make payments on corporate debt securities and meet other obligations. There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. If our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, our liquidity may be affected and we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common or preferred stockholders, repurchase our common stock, make payments on outstanding corporate debt securities or meet other obligations, each and any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or perception of financial health. The Soundness Of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us.Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the stability and actions of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, servicing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to an increasing number of financial institutions and counterparties. These counterparties include institutions that may be exposed to various risks over which we have little or no control, including European or U.S. sovereign debt that is currently or may become in the future subject to significant price pressure, rating agency downgrade or default risk.In addition, we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients, resulting in a significant credit concentration with respect to the financial services industry overall. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.Likewise, adverse developments affecting the overall strength and soundness of our competitors, the financial services industry as a whole and the general economic climate or sovereign debt could have a negative impact on perceptions about the strength and soundness of our business even if we are not subject to the same adverse developments. In addition, adverse developments with respect to third parties with whom we have important relationships also could negatively impact perceptions about us. These perceptions about us could cause our business to be negatively affected and exacerbate the other risks that we face.Item 1B