ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

 Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business.  


        Our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital depend substantially on
prevailing prices for natural gas and, to a
lesser extent, oil. Lower commodity prices may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. Historically, natural gas and oil prices and markets have been volatile, with
prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Natural gas prices have decreased from an average price of $4.39 per Mmbtu in 2010 to an average price of $4.04 per Mmbtu in
2011. Natural gas prices were $3.36 per Mmbtu in December 2011 and have continued to decline to $2.68 per Mmbtu in February 2012. Natural gas prices represent the first of the month Henry Hub index
price per Mmbtu. Oil prices have increased from an average price of $77.32 per barrel in 2010 to an average price of $94.01 per barrel in 2011. Depressed prices in the future would have a negative
impact on our 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg70901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

future
financial results. Because our reserves are predominantly natural gas, changes in natural gas prices have a more significant impact on our financial results. 


        Prices
for natural gas and oil are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a
variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include:



•the level of consumer product demand; 
•weather conditions; 
•political conditions in natural gas and oil producing regions, including the Middle East;  
•the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and
production controls; 
•the price of foreign imports; 
•actions of governmental authorities; 
•pipeline availability and capacity constraints; 
•inventory storage levels; 
•domestic and foreign governmental regulations; 
•the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; and 
•overall economic conditions. 


        These
factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of natural gas and oil. If natural gas prices decline
significantly for a sustained period of time, the lower prices may adversely affect our ability to make planned expenditures, raise additional capital or meet our financial obligations. 

 Drilling natural gas and oil wells is a high-risk activity.  

        Our growth is materially dependent upon the success of our drilling program. Drilling for natural gas and oil involves numerous risks,
including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling,
completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control,
including:



•unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations;  
•equipment failures or accidents; 
•adverse weather conditions; 
•compliance with governmental requirements; and 
•shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. 


        Our
future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure will have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our
overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activity within a particular geographic area may decline. We may ultimately not be able to lease or drill identified or budgeted
prospects within our expected time frame, or at all. We may not be able to lease or drill a particular prospect because, in some cases, we identify a prospect or drilling location before seeking an
option or lease rights in the prospect or location. 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg70901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

Similarly,
our drilling schedule may vary from our capital budget. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors,
including:



•the results of exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data;  
•the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects;  
•the approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled;  
•economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for natural gas and
oil and the availability of drilling rigs and crews; 
•our financial resources and results; and 
•the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects. 


        These
projects may not be successfully developed and the wells, if drilled, may not encounter reservoirs of commercially productive natural gas or oil. 


 Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our
reserves to be overstated or understated.  

        Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and crude oil that cannot be
measured in an exact manner. The process of
estimating quantities of proved reserves is complex and inherently imprecise, and the reserve data included in this document are only estimates. The process relies on interpretations of available
geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this technical data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are
mandated by the SEC, such as natural gas and oil prices. Additional assumptions include drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. 

        Results
of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revising the original estimate. Accordingly, initial reserve estimates often vary from the
quantities of natural gas and crude oil that are ultimately recovered, and such variances may be material. Any significant variance could reduce the estimated quantities and present value of our
reserves. 

        You
should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance
with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month average oil and gas index prices, calculated as the unweighted
arithmetic average for the first day of the month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties.
Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly
less than the current estimate. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) in Accounting Standards Codification 932 may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the
natural gas and oil industry in general. 

 Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional natural gas and oil reserves that are economically recoverable.  

        In general, the production rate of natural gas and oil properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending
on reservoir characteristics. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, eventually resulting in a decrease in natural gas and 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg70901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

oil
production and lower revenues and cash flow from operations. Our future natural gas and oil production is, therefore, highly dependent on our level of success in finding or acquiring additional
reserves. We may not be able to replace reserves through our exploration, development and
exploitation activities or by acquiring properties at acceptable costs. Low natural gas and oil prices may further limit the kinds of reserves that we can develop economically. Lower prices also
decrease our cash flow and may cause us to decrease capital expenditures. 

        Our
reserve report estimates that production from our proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2011 will increase at an estimated rate of 6% during 2012 and then decline at
estimated rates of 30%, 22% and 16% during 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. Future development of proved undeveloped and other reserves currently not classified as proved developed producing will
impact these rates of decline. Because of higher initial decline rates from newly developed reserves, we consider this pattern fairly typical. 


        Exploration,
development and exploitation activities involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce natural gas and oil in commercial quantities and the
inability to fully produce discovered reserves. 

 Acquired properties may not be worth what we pay due to uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and other expected benefits, as well as potential liabilities.  

        Successful property acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include exploration
potential, future natural gas and oil prices, operating costs, and potential environmental and other liabilities. These assessments are complex and inherently imprecise. Our review of the properties
we acquire may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to fully assess the potential deficiencies of the properties. We do not inspect every well, and
even when we inspect a well we may not discover structural, subsurface, or environmental problems that may exist or arise. We may not be entitled to contractual indemnification for
pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and our contractual indemnification may not be effective. Often, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with
limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. If an acquired property is not performing as originally estimated, we may have an impairment which could have a material adverse effect
on our financial position and results of operations. 

 The integration of the properties we acquire could be difficult, and may divert management's attention away from our existing operations.  

        The integration of the properties we acquire could be difficult, and may divert management's attention and financial resources away
from our existing operations. These difficulties include:



•the challenge of integrating the acquired properties while carrying on the ongoing operations of our business; and  
•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations. 


        The
process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our management may be required to devote
considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our existing business. If management is not able to effectively manage the integration
process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg70901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 We face a variety of hazards and risks that could cause substantial financial losses.  


        Our business involves a variety of operating risks, including:



•well site blowouts, cratering and explosions; 
•equipment failures; 
•pipe or cement failures and casing collapses, which can release natural gas, oil, drilling fluids or hydraulic fracturing
fluids; 
•uncontrolled flows of natural gas, oil or well fluids; 
•fires; 
•formations with abnormal pressures; 
•handling and disposal of materials, including drilling fluids and hydraulic fracturing fluids;  
•pollution and other environmental risks; and 
•natural disasters. 


        Any
of these events could result in injury or loss of human life, loss of hydrocarbons, significant damage to or destruction of property, environmental pollution, regulatory
investigations and penalties, suspension or impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. 

        Our
operation of natural gas gathering and pipeline systems also involves various risks, including the risk of explosions and environmental hazards caused by pipeline leaks and ruptures.
The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase these risks. As of December 31, 2011, we owned or
operated approximately 3,105 miles of natural gas gathering and pipeline systems. As part of our normal maintenance program, we have identified certain segments of our pipelines that we believe
periodically require repair, replacement or additional maintenance. 

 We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which we are exposed.  

        We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. We do not carry business interruption insurance. In
addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position,
results of operations and cash flows. 

 We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate.  

        Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. Non-operated wells represented approximately
11.0% of our total owned gross wells, or approximately 3.1% of our owned net wells, as of December 31, 2011. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development
of these non-operated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to them. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform
operations, an operator's breach of the applicable agreements or an operator's failure to act in ways that are in our best interest could reduce our production and revenues. Our dependence on the
operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could materially adversely affect
the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and lead to unexpected future costs. 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg70901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Terrorist activities and the potential for military and other actions could adversely affect our business.  


        The threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action have caused instability in world financial markets and could lead
to increased volatility in prices for natural gas and oil, all of which could adversely affect the markets for our operations. Future acts of terrorism could be directed against companies operating in
the United States. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our
operations to increased risk and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 Our ability to sell our natural gas and oil production could be materially harmed if we fail to obtain adequate services such as transportation and processing.  


        The sale of our natural gas and oil production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability and
capacity of transportation and processing facilities. We deliver our natural gas and oil production primarily through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. The lack of available of
capacity on these systems and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans
for properties. Third-party systems and facilities may be unavailable due to market conditions or mechanical or other reasons. Our failure to obtain these services on acceptable terms could materially
harm our business. 

 Competition in our industry is intense, and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technological resources than we do, which could adversely affect
our competitive position.  

        Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense. Major and independent natural gas and oil companies actively bid for
desirable natural gas and oil properties, as well as for the equipment and labor required to operate and develop these properties. Our competitive position is affected by price, contract terms and
quality of service, including pipeline connection times, distribution efficiencies and reliable delivery record. Many of our competitors have financial and technological resources and exploration and
development budgets that are substantially greater than ours. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define,
evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater resources on the
existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. 

 We may have hedging arrangements that expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of increases in prices for natural gas and oil.  

        From time to time, when we believe that market conditions are favorable, we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage
price risks associated with our production. While there are many different types of derivatives available, we utilized natural gas and crude oil swap agreements and crude oil collar agreements for
portions of our 2011 production to attempt to manage price risk more effectively. During 2011, we also entered into crude oil swaps to hedge our price exposure on our 2012 production, natural gas
swaps to hedge our price exposure on our 2011 and 2012 production and natural gas collars to hedge our price exposure on our 2013 production. In addition, we also have natural gas basis swaps covering
a portion of anticipated 2012 production, which do not qualify for hedge accounting. 

        The
collar arrangements are put and call options used to establish floor and ceiling commodity prices for a fixed volume of production during a certain time period. They provide for
payments to counterparties if the index price exceeds the ceiling and payments from the counterparties if the index 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg70901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

price
falls below the floor. The price swaps call for payments to, or receipts from, counterparties based on whether the market price of natural gas or crude oil for the period is greater or less than
the fixed price established for that period when the swap is put in place. These hedging arrangements limit the benefit to us of increases in prices. In addition, these arrangements expose us to risks
of financial loss in a variety of circumstances, including when:



•a counterparty is unable to satisfy its obligations; 
•production is less than expected; or 
•there is an adverse change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and
actual prices received for our production. 


        We
will continue to evaluate the benefit of employing derivatives in the future. Please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in
Item 7 and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" in Item 7A for further discussion concerning our use of derivatives. 

 The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate.  

        Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of key management and technical personnel, and one or more of these
individuals could leave our employment. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. In addition, our drilling success and the success
of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers and other professionals. Competition for experienced
geologists, engineers and some other professionals is extremely intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could
be harmed. 

 We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.  


        Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations and those
relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility
of doing business. Many laws and regulations require permits for the operation of various facilities, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities
have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations could subject us to fines, injunctions or both. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing,
drilling, installing and operating natural gas and oil facilities. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease. Risks of
substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in natural gas and oil operations. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws
and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from natural gas and oil production, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. 

 Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and operating restrictions or delays.  

        Many of our exploration and production operations depend on the use of hydraulic fracturing to enhance production from oil and gas
wells. This technology involves the injection of fluids—usually consisting mostly of water but typically including small amounts of several chemical additives—as well as sand
into a well under high pressure in order to create fractures in the rock that allow oil or gas to flow more freely to the wellbore. Most of our wells would not be economical without the use of 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg70901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

hydraulic
fracturing to stimulate production from the well. Hydraulic fracturing operations have historically been overseen by state regulators as part of their oil and gas regulatory programs;
however, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and is developing guidance documents related
to this newly asserted regulatory authority. As a result, we may be subject to additional permitting requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations as well as various restrictions on those
operations. These permitting requirements and restrictions could result in delays in operations at well sites as well as increased costs to make wells productive. Moreover, legislation introduced in
Congress would require the public disclosure of certain information regarding the chemical makeup of hydraulic fracturing fluids, and we voluntarily disclose on a well-by-well
basis the chemicals we use in the hydraulic fracturing process at www.fracfocus.org. 


        In
addition to these federal legislative proposals, some states in which we operate, such as Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Texas, Kansas, Louisiana and Montana, and certain local
governments have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, including requirements regarding chemical disclosure,
casing and cementing of wells, withdrawal of water for use in high-volume hydraulic fracturing of horizontal wells, baseline testing of nearby water wells, and restrictions on the type of
additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, the Railroad Commission of Texas adopted rules in December 2011 requiring disclosure of certain information regarding the
components used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition, both the State of Pennsylvania and certain local governments in that state have adopted a variety of regulations limiting how and
where fracturing can be performed. Moreover, in April 2011, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PaDEP) called on all Marcellus Shale natural gas drilling operators to voluntarily
cease by May 19, 2011 delivering wastewater to those centralized treatment facilities that were grandfathered from the application of last year's Total Dissolved Solids regulations. Further, on
July 22, 2011, the Pennsylvania Governor's Marcellus Shale Advisory Commission released its report setting forth 96 recommendations on a variety of issues related to natural gas development in
Pennsylvania. These recommendations are related to infrastructure; public health, safety, and environmental protection; local impact and emergency response; and economic and workforce development. The
Commission made the most recommendations in the area of public health, safety and environmental protection, including doubling penalties authorized for violations of the Oil and Gas Act; increasing
bonding requirements; authorizing the PaDEP to suspend, revoke or deny permits on a quicker timeframe for violations or failure to correct violations; expanding a well operator's presumed liability
for impaired water quality; amending well stimulation and completion reporting requirements to require disclosure of hazardous chemicals used in fracturing; and other issues related to fracturing
operations. Some or all of these recommendations will likely be acted upon and may result in the adoption of new laws and regulations governing shale gas development in the Marcellus Shale in
Pennsylvania that could result in substantial changes in the way natural gas activities are conducted in the area. If these types of conditions are imposed, we could be subject to increased costs and
possibly limits on the productivity of certain wells. 

        Certain
governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality
is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing
practices. Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has commenced a
study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. In
addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic fracturing completion
methods. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior is considering disclosure requirements or other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. 

26






<A
NAME="page_di70901_1_27"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

        Additionally, certain members of Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely
affect water resources, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of
pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency's estimates regarding natural
gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any
meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms. 

        Further,
on July 28, 2011, the EPA issued proposed rules that would subject oil and gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution operations to regulation
under the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAPS) programs. The EPA proposed rules also include NSPS standards for completions of
hydraulically fractured gas wells. These standards include the reduced emission completion techniques developed in the EPA's Natural Gas STAR program along with the pit flaring of gas not sent to the
gathering line. The standards would be applicable to newly drilled and fractured wells as well as existing wells that are refractured. Further, the proposed regulations under NESHAPS include maximum
achievable control technology (MACT) standards for those glycol dehydrators and storage vessels at major sources of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to MACT standards. We are currently
evaluating the effect these proposed rules could have on our business. Final action on the proposed rules is expected by April 2012. 


 Climate change and climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and decreased demand for the oil and gas that we produce.  

        There is increasing attention in the United States and worldwide concerning the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse
gases. In the United States, climate change action is evolving at the state, regional and federal levels. On December 17, 2010, the EPA amended the "Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases"
final rule ("Reporting Rule") originally issued in September 2009. The Reporting Rule establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources emitting more than established
annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gases to inventory and report their greenhouse gases emissions annually on a facility-by-facility basis. In addition,
on December 15, 2009, the EPA published a Final Rule finding that current and projected concentrations of six key greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and the welfare of
current and future generations. The EPA also found that the combined emissions of these greenhouse gases from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines contribute to pollution that threatens
public health and welfare. This Final Rule, also known as the EPA's Endangerment Finding, does not impose any requirements on industry or other entities directly. However, following issuance of the
Endangerment Finding, EPA promulgated final motor vehicle GHG emission standards on April 1, 2010, the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil. Also,
according to the EPA, the final motor vehicle GHG standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. Thus, on June 3, 2010, EPA issued a final rule to
address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act's Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") and Title V programs. This final rule "tailors" the PSD and Title
V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. In addition, on November 8, 2010, EPA finalized
new GHG reporting requirements for upstream petroleum and natural gas systems, which will be added to EPA's GHG Reporting Rule. Facilities containing petroleum and natural gas systems that emit 25,000
metric tons or more of CO2 equivalent per year will now be required to report annual GHG emissions to EPA, with the first report due on September 28, 2012. 

27




 

<A
HREF="#bg70901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Internationally,
in 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which establishes a binding set of emission targets for greenhouse gases,
became binding on all those countries that had ratified it. International discussions are currently underway to extend the Kyoto Protocol's expiration date of 2012 and to develop a treaty to replace
the Kyoto Protocol after its expiration. While it is not possible at this time to predict how regulation that may be enacted to address greenhouse gases emissions would impact our business, the
modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing oil and gas exploration in the areas of the United States in which we operate could materially and
adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or imposing materially increased costs. In addition, existing or new laws, regulations or treaties (including incentives to conserve
energy or use alternative energy sources) could have a negative impact on our business if such incentives reduce demand for oil and gas. 

        Moreover,
some experts believe climate change poses potential physical risks, including an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in
precipitation and extreme weather events. To the extent that such unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, our operations may be adversely affected to a
greater degree than we have previously experienced, including increased delays and costs. However, the uncertain nature of changes in extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration, and
severity) and the long period of time over which any changes would take place make estimating any future financial risk to our operations caused by these potential physical risks of climate change
extremely challenging. 

 Certain federal income tax law changes have been proposed that, if passed, would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  


        Substantive changes to existing federal income tax laws have been proposed that, if adopted, would repeal many tax incentives and
deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and gas companies and would impose new taxes. The proposals include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year
incurred; increase in the taxation of foreign source income; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; and increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for
independent producers. Should some or all of these proposals become law, our taxes will increase, potentially significantly, which would have a negative impact on our net income and cash flows. This
could also reduce our drilling activities in the U.S. Since none of these proposals have yet to become law, we do not know the ultimate impact these proposed changes may have on our business. 

 Provisions of Delaware law and our bylaws and charter could discourage change in control transactions and prevent stockholders from receiving a premium on their investment.  

        Our bylaws provide for a classified Board of Directors with staggered terms, and our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to set
the terms of preferred stock. In addition, Delaware law contains provisions that impose restrictions on business combinations with interested parties. Our bylaws prohibit stockholder action by written
consent and limit stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders. Because of these provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law, persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other
unilateral takeover proposals may be more likely to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. As a result, these provisions may make it
more difficult for our stockholders to benefit from transactions that are opposed by an incumbent Board of Directors. 

        The
personal liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duty of care is limited by the Delaware General Corporation Law and by our charter. 


        The
Delaware General Corporation Law allows corporations to limit available relief for the breach of directors' duty of care to equitable remedies such as injunction or rescission. Our
charter limits the 

28




 

<A
HREF="#bg70901a_main_toc">Table of Contents


liability
of our directors to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Specifically, our directors will not be personally liable for monetary damages for any breach of their fiduciary duty as a
director, except for liability:



•for any breach of their duty of loyalty to the company or our stockholders;  
•for acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law;  
•under provisions relating to unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; and  
•for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. 


        This
limitation may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors, and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit
against directors for breach of their duty of care, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited our stockholders.  


<A
NAME="di70901_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B