ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

 Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period would likely have a material adverse impact on our business.  

        Our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital depend substantially on
prevailing prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. Lower commodity prices may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. Historically, natural gas and oil
prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Depressed prices in the future would have a negative impact on our future
financial results and could result in an impairment charge. See "Future natural gas and oil price declines may result in write-downs of the carrying amount of our assets, which could materially and
adversely affect our results of operations." Because our reserves are predominantly natural gas, changes in natural gas prices have a more significant impact on our financial results. 


        Prices
for natural gas and oil are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a
variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include but are not limited to the following:



•the levels and location of natural gas and oil supply and demand and expectations regarding supply and demand, including
the potential long-term impact of an abundance of natural gas from shale (such as that produced from our Marcellus properties) on the global natural gas supply;  
•the level of consumer product demand; 
•weather conditions; 
•political conditions or hostilities in natural gas and oil producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa and South
America; 
•the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other exporting nations to agree to
and maintain oil price and production controls; 
•the price level of foreign imports; 
•actions of governmental authorities; 
•the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, transportation, processing and/or refining facilities in regional
or localized areas that may affect the realized price for natural gas and oil; 
•inventory storage levels; 
•the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation, including environmental and climate
change regulation; 
•the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•technological advances affecting energy consumption; 
•speculation by investors in oil and gas; 
•variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices; and  
•overall economic conditions, including the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies. 


        These
factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of natural gas and oil. If natural gas prices decline
significantly for a sustained period of time, the lower prices may adversely affect our ability to make planned expenditures, raise additional capital or meet our financial obligations. 

 Drilling natural gas and oil wells is a high-risk activity.  

        Our growth is materially dependent upon the success of our drilling program. Drilling for natural gas and oil involves numerous risks,
including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling
operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including:



•unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations;  
•equipment failures or accidents; 
•adverse weather conditions; 
•decreases in natural gas and oil prices; 
•surface access restrictions; 
•loss of title or other title related issues; 
•compliance with, or changes in, governmental requirements and regulation; and  
•costs of shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment and materials. 


        Our
future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure will have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our
overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activity within a particular geographic area may decline. We may ultimately not be able to lease or drill identified or budgeted
prospects within our expected time frame, or at all. We may not be able to lease or drill a particular prospect because, in some cases, we identify a prospect or drilling location before seeking an
option or lease rights in the prospect or location. Similarly, our drilling schedule may vary from our capital budget. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted
wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including:



•the results of exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data;  
•the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects;  
•the approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled;  
•economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for natural gas and
oil and the availability of drilling rigs and crews; 
•our financial resources and results; and 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects and any delays in obtaining such permits. 


        These
projects may not be successfully developed and the wells, if drilled, may not encounter reservoirs of commercially productive natural gas or oil. 


 Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our
reserves to be overstated or understated.  

        Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and oil that cannot be measured in
an exact manner. The process of estimating quantities of proved reserves is complex and inherently imprecise, and the reserve data included in this document are only estimates. The process relies on
interpretations of available
geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this technical data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are
mandated by the SEC, such as natural gas and oil prices. Additional assumptions include drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Furthermore, different
reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. 

        Results
of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revising the original estimate. Accordingly, initial reserve estimates often vary from the
quantities of natural gas and oil that are ultimately recovered, and such variances may be material. Any significant variance could reduce the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. 


        You
should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance
with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month average crude oil and natural gas index prices, calculated as the
unweighted arithmetic average for the first day of the month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the
properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be
significantly less than the current estimate. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with the applicable
accounting standards may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. 

 Future natural gas and oil price declines may result in write-downs of the carrying amount of our assets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of
operations.  

        The value of our assets depends on prices of natural gas and crude oil. Declines in these prices as well as increases in development
costs, changes in well performance, delays in asset development or deterioration of drilling results may result in our having to make material downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves,
and could result in an impairment charge and a corresponding write-down of the carrying amount of our oil and natural gas properties. 

        We
evaluate our oil and gas properties for impairment on a field-by-field basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a property's carrying amount
may not be recoverable. We compare expected undiscounted future cash flows to the net book value of the asset. If the future undiscounted expected cash flows, based on our estimate of future crude oil
and natural gas prices, operating costs and anticipated production from proved reserves (also potentially including risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves from time to time), are
lower than the net book value of the asset, the capitalized cost is reduced to fair value. Commodity pricing is estimated by using a combination of assumptions management uses in its budgeting and
forecasting process as well as historical and current prices 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents

adjusted
for geographical location and quality differentials, as well as other factors that management believes will impact realizable prices. In the event that commodity prices decline further, there
could be a significant revision in the future. 

 Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional natural gas and oil reserves that are economically recoverable.  

        In general, the production rate of natural gas and oil properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending
on reservoir characteristics. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, eventually resulting in a decrease in natural gas and oil production and lower
revenues and cash flow from operations. Our future natural gas and oil production is, therefore, highly dependent on our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. We may not be
able to replace reserves through our exploration, development and exploitation activities or by acquiring properties at acceptable costs. Low natural gas and oil prices may further limit the kinds of
reserves that we can develop and produce economically. 

        Our
reserve report estimates that production from our proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2012 will increase at an estimated rate of 9% during 2013 and then decline at
estimated rates of 36%, 22% and 17% during 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. Future development of proved undeveloped and other reserves currently not classified as proved developed producing will
impact these rates of decline. Because of higher initial decline rates from newly developed reserves, we consider this pattern fairly typical. 


        Exploration,
development and exploitation activities involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce natural gas and oil in commercial quantities and the
inability to fully produce discovered reserves. 

 We have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all.  

        We rely upon access to both our revolving credit facility and longer-term capital markets as sources of liquidity for any
capital requirements not
satisfied by the cash flow from operations or other sources. Future challenges in the global financial system, including the capital markets, may adversely affect our business and our financial
condition. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we desire, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic
and business conditions. Adverse economic and market conditions could adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables and cause our commodity hedging counterparties to be unable to
perform their obligations or to seek bankruptcy protection. Future challenges in the economy could also lead to reduced demand for natural gas which could have a negative impact on our revenues. 

 Strategic determinations, including the allocation of capital and other resources to strategic opportunities, are challenging, and our failure to appropriately allocate
capital and resources among our strategic opportunities may adversely affect our financial condition and reduce our growth rate.  


        Our future growth prospects are dependent upon our ability to identify optimal strategies for our business. In developing our business
plan, we considered allocating capital and other resources to various aspects of our businesses including well-development (primarily drilling), reserve acquisitions, exploratory activity,
corporate items and other alternatives. We also considered our likely sources of capital. Notwithstanding the determinations made in the development of our 2013 plan, business opportunities not
previously identified periodically come to our attention, including possible acquisitions and dispositions. If we fail to identify optimal business strategies, or fail to optimize our capital
investment and capital raising opportunities and the use of our other resources in furtherance of 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents

our
business strategies, our financial condition and growth rate may be adversely affected. Moreover, economic or other circumstances may change from those contemplated by our 2013 plan, and our
failure to recognize or respond to those changes may limit our ability to achieve our objectives. 

 Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry could have an adverse effect on our operations.  


        Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry resulting from, among other things, concerns raised by advocacy groups
about hydraulic fracturing, the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, and the explosion of natural gas transmission lines in California and elsewhere, may lead to increased regulatory scrutiny which may,
in turn, lead to new state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations. These action may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased
operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased
risk of litigation. Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including
through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits we need to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed, or burdened by requirements that restrict our ability
to profitably conduct our business. 

 Increased drilling in the shale formations may cause pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints that may limit our ability to sell natural gas and/or receive market
prices for our natural gas.  

        The Marcellus Shale wells we have drilled to date have generally reported very high initial production rates. If drilling in the
Marcellus Shale continues to be successful, the amount of natural gas being produced in the area from these new wells, as well as natural gas produced from other existing wells, may exceed the
capacity of the various gathering and intrastate or interstate transportation pipelines currently available. In such event, this could result in wells being shut in or awaiting a pipeline connection
or capacity and/or natural gas being sold at much lower prices than those quoted on NYMEX or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 

 We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental and safety regulations, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.  

        Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including drilling, permitting and safety laws
and regulations and those relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations can adversely affect the
cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Many laws and regulations require permits for the operation of various facilities, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal.
Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations could subject us to fines, injunctions or both. These laws and regulations have increased the costs
of planning, designing, drilling, installing and operating natural gas and oil facilities, and new laws and regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing laws and regulations could further
increase these costs. Increased scrutiny of our industry may also occur as a result of EPA's 2011-2013 National Enforcement Initiative, "Assuring Energy Extraction Activities Comply with
Environmental Laws," through which EPA will address incidences of noncompliance from natural gas extraction and production activities that may cause or contribute to significant harm to public health
and/or the environment. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to
environmental compliance issues are inherent in natural gas and oil operations. For example, we could be required to install expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease activities on lands
located within wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically sensitive areas. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and
subject us to 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents

administrative,
civil and criminal penalties as well as the imposition of corrective action orders. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and
claims for damages to property or persons resulting from natural gas and oil production, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. 

 Acquired properties may not be worth what we pay due to uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and other expected benefits, as well as potential liabilities.  


        Successful property acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include estimates of
recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future natural gas and oil prices, operating costs, production taxes and potential environmental and other liabilities. These assessments are complex and
inherently imprecise. Our review of the properties we acquire may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to fully assess the potential deficiencies of
the properties. We do not inspect every well, and even when we inspect a well we may not discover structural, subsurface, or environmental problems that may exist or arise. 


        There
may be threatened or contemplated claims against the assets or businesses we acquire related to environmental, title, regulatory, tax, contract, litigation or other matters of
which we are unaware, which could materially and adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. We may not be entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing
liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and our contractual indemnification may not be effective. At times, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited
representations and warranties and limited remedies for breaches of such representations and warranties. In addition, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business if
the acquired properties have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or are in different geographic locations than our existing properties. 

 The integration of the properties we acquire could be difficult, and may divert management's attention away from our existing operations.  

        The integration of the properties we acquire could be difficult, and may divert management's attention and financial resources away
from our existing operations. These difficulties include:



•the challenge of integrating the acquired properties while carrying on the ongoing operations of our business;  
•the inability to retain key employees of the acquired business; 
•potential lack of operating experience in a geographic market of the acquired properties; and  
•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations. 


        The
process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our management may be required to devote
considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our existing business. If management is not able to effectively manage the integration
process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. 


 We face a variety of hazards and risks that could cause substantial financial losses.  

        Our business involves a variety of operating risks, including:



•well site blowouts, cratering and explosions; 
•equipment failures; 

26




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•pipe or cement failures and casing collapses, which can release natural gas, oil, drilling fluids or hydraulic fracturing
fluids; 
•uncontrolled flows of natural gas, oil or well fluids; 
•pipeline ruptures; 
•fires; 
•formations with abnormal pressures; 
•handling and disposal of materials, including drilling fluids and hydraulic fracturing fluids;  
•release of toxic gas; 
•buildup of naturally occurring radioactive materials; 
•pollution and other environmental risks, including conditions caused by previous owners or lessors of our properties; and  
•natural disasters. 


        Any
of these events could result in injury or loss of human life, loss of hydrocarbons, significant damage to or destruction of property, environmental pollution, regulatory
investigations and penalties, suspension or impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. 

        Our
operation of natural gas gathering and pipeline systems also involves various risks, including the risk of explosions and environmental hazards caused by pipeline leaks and ruptures.
The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase these risks. As of December 31, 2012, we owned or
operated approximately 3,134 miles of natural gas gathering and pipeline systems. As part of our normal maintenance program, we have identified certain segments of our pipelines that we believe
periodically require repair, replacement or additional maintenance. 

 We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which we are exposed.  

        We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. We do not carry business interruption insurance. In
addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position,
results of operations and cash flows. 

 We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate.  

        Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. Non-operated wells represented approximately
11.7% of our total owned gross wells, or approximately 3.7% of our owned net wells, as of December 31, 2012. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development
of these non-operated properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to
them. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator's breach of the applicable agreements or an
operator's failure to act in ways that are in our best interest could reduce our production and revenues. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our
limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or
acquisition activities and lead to unexpected future costs. 

27






<A
NAME="page_dk46201_1_28"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

 Terrorist activities and the potential for military and other actions could adversely affect our business.  

        The threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action have caused instability in world financial markets and could lead
to increased volatility in prices for natural gas and oil, all of which could adversely affect the markets for our operations. Future acts of terrorism, including cybersecurity threats to gain
unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, could be directed against companies operating in the United States. The U.S. government has issued public warnings
that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risk and, depending on their ultimate magnitude,
could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 Our ability to sell our natural gas and oil production could be materially harmed if we fail to obtain adequate services such as transportation and processing.  


        The sale of our natural gas and oil production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability and
capacity of transportation and processing
facilities. We deliver our natural gas and oil production primarily through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. The lack of available of capacity on these systems and facilities could
reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Third-party systems and
facilities may be unavailable due to market conditions or mechanical or other reasons. To the extent these services are unavailable, we would be unable to realize revenue from wells served by such
facilities until suitable arrangements are made to market our production. Our failure to obtain these services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. 

 Competition in our industry is intense, and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technological resources than we do, which could adversely affect
our competitive position.  

        Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense. Major and independent natural gas and oil companies actively bid for
desirable natural gas and oil properties, as well as for the capital, equipment and labor required to operate and develop these properties. Our competitive position is affected by price, contract
terms and quality of service, including pipeline connection times, distribution efficiencies and reliable delivery record. Many of our competitors have financial and technological resources and
exploration and development budgets that are substantially greater than ours. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be
able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater
resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. These companies may also have a greater ability to
continue drilling activities during periods of low natural gas and oil prices and to absorb the burden of current and future governmental regulations and taxation. 

 We may have hedging arrangements that expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of increases in prices for natural gas and oil.  

        From time to time, when we believe that market conditions are favorable, we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage
price risk associated with our natural gas and crude oil production. While there are many different types of derivatives available, we generally utilize collar and swap agreements to attempt to manage
price risk more effectively. 

        The
collar arrangements are put and call options used to establish floor and ceiling prices for a fixed volume of production during a certain time period. They provide for payments to
counterparties if the index price exceeds the ceiling and payments from the counterparties if the index price falls below 

28




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents

the
floor. The swap agreements call for payments to, or receipts from, counterparties based on whether the index price for the period is greater or less than the fixed price established for that
period when the swap is put in place. These hedging arrangements limit the benefit to us of increases in prices. In addition, these arrangements expose us to risks of financial loss in a variety of
circumstances, including when:



•a counterparty is unable to satisfy its obligations; 
•production is less than expected; or 
•there is an adverse change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and
actual prices received for our production. 


        We
will continue to evaluate the benefit of utilizing derivatives in the future. Please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in
Item 7 and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" in Item 7A for further discussion concerning our use of derivatives. 

 The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate.  

        Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of key management and technical personnel, and one or more of these
individuals could leave our employment. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. In addition, our drilling success and the success
of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers and other professionals. Competition for experienced
geologists, engineers and some other professionals is extremely intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could
be harmed. 

 Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and operating restrictions or delays.  


        Most of our exploration and production operations depend on the use of hydraulic fracturing to enhance production from oil and gas
wells. This technology involves the injection of fluids—usually consisting mostly of water but typically including small amounts of several chemical additives—as well as sand
or other proppants into a well under high pressure in order to create fractures in the rock that allow oil or gas to flow more freely to the wellbore. Most of our wells would not be economical without
the use of hydraulic fracturing to stimulate production from the well. Hydraulic fracturing operations have historically been overseen by state regulators as part of their oil and gas regulatory
programs; however, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and has released draft permitting
guidance for hydraulic fracturing activities that use diesel in fracturing fluids in those states where EPA is the permitting authority, including Pennsylvania. As a result, we may be subject to
additional permitting requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations as well as various restrictions on those operations. These permitting requirements and restrictions could result in delays in
operations at well sites as well as increased costs to make wells productive. In addition, legislation introduced in Congress would provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the
Safe Drinking Water Act and require the public disclosure of certain information regarding the chemical makeup of hydraulic fracturing fluids. Moreover, on November 23, 2011, the EPA announced
that it was granting in part a petition to initiate a rulemaking under the Toxic Substances Control Act, relating to chemical substances and mixtures used in oil and gas exploration and
production. Further, on May 4, 2012, the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") issued a proposed rule to regulate hydraulic fracturing on public and Indian land. The
rule would require companies to publicly disclose the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations to the BLM after fracturing operations have been 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents

completed
and includes provisions addressing well-bore integrity and flowback water management plans. We voluntarily disclose on a well-by-well basis the chemicals
we use in the hydraulic fracturing process at www.fracfocus.org. 

        On
August 16, 2012, the EPA published final rules that establish new air emission control requirements for natural gas and NGL production, processing and transportation
activities, including New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds, and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAPS) to
address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with gas production and processing activities. Among other things, these final rules require the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions
from natural gas wells through the use of reduced emission completions or "green completions" on all hydraulically fractured wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. In addition,
gas wells are required to use completion combustion device equipment (i.e., flaring) by October 15, 2012 if emissions cannot be
directed to a gathering line. Further, the final rules under NESHAPS include maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards for "small" glycol dehydrators that are located at major sources of
hazardous air pollutants and modifications to the leak detection standards for valves. We are currently reviewing this new rule and assessing its potential impacts. Compliance with these requirements,
especially the imposition of these green completion requirements, may require modifications to certain of our operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions at the well
site that could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. 


        In
addition to these federal legislative and regulatory proposals, some states in which we operate, such as Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Texas, Kansas, Louisiana and Montana, and certain
local governments have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, including requirements regarding chemical
disclosure, casing and cementing of wells, withdrawal of water for use in high-volume hydraulic fracturing of horizontal wells, baseline testing of nearby water wells, and restrictions on
the type of additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, the Railroad Commission of Texas adopted rules in December 2011 requiring disclosure of certain information
regarding the components used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition, Pennsylvania's Act 13 of 2012 became law on February 14, 2012 and amended the state's Oil and Gas Act to impose
an impact fee for drilling, increase setbacks from certain water sources, require water management plans, increase civil penalties, strengthen the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection's
(PaDEP) authority over the issuance of drilling permits, and require the disclosure of chemical information regarding the components in hydraulic fracturing fluids. 

        We
use a significant amount of water in our hydraulic fracturing operations. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our E&P
operations, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic
fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Compliance
with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating
costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial condition.
For example, in April 2011, PaDEP called on all Marcellus Shale natural gas drilling operators to voluntarily cease by May 19, 2011 delivering wastewater to those centralized treatment
facilities that were grandfathered from the application of PaDEP's Total Dissolved Solids regulations. In October 2011, the EPA announced that it plans to develop standards for disposal of wastewater
produced from shale gas operations to publicly owned treatment works (POTWs), which will be proposed in 2014. The regulations will be developed 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents


under
the EPA's Effluent Guidelines Program under the authority of the Clean Water Act. In response to these actions, operators including us have begun to rely more on recycling of flowback and
produced water from well sites as a preferred alternative to disposal. 

        A
number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA is conducting a
study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. The EPA released of a progress report outlining work currently underway on December 21,
2012 and is expected to release a draft report of final results in 2014. This study and other studies that may be undertaken by EPA or other federal agencies could spur initiatives to further regulate
hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or other statutory and/or regulatory mechanisms. President Obama created the Interagency Working Group on
Unconventional Natural Gas and Oil by Executive Order on April 13, 2012, which is charged with coordinating and aligning federal agency research and scientific studies on unconventional natural
gas and oil resources. 

 Climate change and climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and decreased demand for the oil and natural gas that we
produce.  

        There is increasing attention in the United States and worldwide concerning the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse
gases. In the United States, climate change action is evolving at the state, regional and federal levels. On December 17, 2010, the EPA amended the "Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases"
final rule ("Reporting Rule") originally issued in September 2009. The Reporting Rule establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources emitting more than established
annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gases to inventory and report their greenhouse gases emissions annually on a facility-by-facility basis. In addition,
on December 15, 2009, the EPA published a Final Rule finding that current and projected concentrations of six key greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and the welfare of
current and future generations. The EPA also found that the combined emissions of these greenhouse gases from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines contribute to pollution that threatens
public health and welfare. This Final Rule, also known as the EPA's Endangerment Finding, does not impose any requirements on industry or other entities directly. However, following issuance of the
Endangerment Finding, EPA promulgated final motor vehicle GHG emission standards on April 1, 2010, the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil. Also,
according to the EPA, the final motor vehicle GHG standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. Thus, on June 3, 2010, EPA issued a final rule to
address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act's Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") and Title V programs. This final rule "tailors" the PSD and Title
V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. In addition, on November 8, 2010, EPA finalized
new GHG reporting requirements for upstream petroleum and natural gas systems, which will be added to EPA's GHG Reporting Rule. Facilities containing petroleum and natural gas
systems that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of CO2 equivalent per year were required to report annual GHG emissions to EPA, for the first time by September 28, 2012. We submitted our report in
compliance with the deadline. 

        In
addition, Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. While it is not possible at this time to predict how regulation or
legislation that may be enacted to address greenhouse gases emissions would impact our business, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing
oil and gas exploration in the areas of the United States in which we operate could materially and adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or imposing materially increased
costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents

regulatory
or reporting requirements. In addition, existing or new laws, regulations or treaties (including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources) could have a negative
impact on our business if such incentives reduce demand for oil and gas. 


        Moreover,
in 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which establishes a binding set of emission targets for greenhouse gases, became
binding on all those countries that had ratified it. Ongoing international discussions following the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Doha, Qatar in December 2012 are exploring options to
replace the Kyoto Protocol. 

        Moreover,
some experts believe climate change poses potential physical risks, including an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in
precipitation and extreme weather events. To the extent that such unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, our operations may be adversely affected to a
greater degree than we have previously experienced, including increased delays and costs. However, the uncertain nature of changes in extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration, and
severity) and the long period of time over which any changes would take place make estimating any future financial risk to our operations caused by these potential physical risks of climate change
extremely challenging. 

 Certain federal income tax law changes have been proposed that, if passed, would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  

        Substantive changes to existing federal income tax laws have been proposed that, if adopted, would repeal many tax incentives and
deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and gas companies and would impose new taxes. The proposals include: repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties;
elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; and increase in the geological and
geophysical amortization period for independent producers. Should some or all of these proposals become law, our taxes will increase, potentially significantly, which would have a negative impact on
our net income and cash flows. This could also reduce our drilling activities in the U.S. Since none of these proposals have yet to become law, we do not know the ultimate impact these proposed
changes may have on our business. 

 Provisions of Delaware law and our bylaws and charter could discourage change in control transactions and prevent stockholders from receiving a premium on their investment.  

        Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, Delaware law contains provisions that
impose restrictions on business combinations with interested parties. Our bylaws prohibit stockholder action by written consent and place procedural requirements and limitations on stockholder
proposals at meetings of stockholders. Because of these provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law, persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals may be
more likely to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. As a result, these provisions may make it more difficult for our stockholders to
benefit from transactions that are opposed by an incumbent Board of Directors. 

 The personal liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duty of care is limited by the Delaware General Corporation Law and by our
charter.  

        The Delaware General Corporation Law allows corporations to limit available relief for the breach of directors' duty of care to
equitable remedies such as injunction or rescission. Our charter limits the liability of our directors to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Specifically, our directors will 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg46201a_main_toc">Table of Contents

not
be personally liable for monetary damages for any breach of their fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability:



•for any breach of their duty of loyalty to the company or our stockholders;  
•for acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law;  
•under provisions relating to unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; and  
•for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. 


        This
limitation may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors, and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit
against directors for breach of their duty of care, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited our stockholders.  

<A
NAME="dk46201_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B