ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors

You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or
incorporated by reference in this document and, in particular, the
following risk factors associated with the Business of Coach and
forward-looking information in this document. Please also see
‘‘Special Note on Forward-Looking
Information’’ at the beginning of this report. The risks
described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not
presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also
have an adverse effect on us. If any of the risks below actually occur,
our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition
could suffer.


The growth of our business depends on the
successful execution of our growth strategies. 

Our growth
depends on the continued success of existing products, as well as the
successful design and introduction of new products. Our ability to
create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by
whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer
preferences and fashion trends. The failure to develop and launch
successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Also,
any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in
our not being the first to market, which could compromise our
competitive position.

Significant competition in our
industry could adversely affect our business. 

We face
intense competition in the product lines and markets in which we
operate. Our competitors include private label retailers, including
some of Coach’s wholesale customers, as well as other well known
handbags and accessories companies. There is a risk that our
competitors may develop new products that are more popular with our
customers. We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of such
product introductions by competitors, which could harm our business.
Our ability to compete also depends on the strength of our brands,
whether we can attract and retain key talent, and our ability to
protect our trademarks and design patents. A failure to compete
effectively could adversely affect our growth and profitability.

We face risks associated with operating in international
markets. 

We operate on a global basis, with approximately
25% of our net sales coming from operations outside the U.S.
However, sales to our international wholesale customers are denominated
in U.S. dollars. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the
Company’s exposure to risks in any one country, we are subject
to risks associated with international operations, including, but not
limited to:








• 
changes in exchange rates
for foreign currencies, which may adversely affect the retail prices of
our products and result in decreased international consumer demand or
increase our supply costs in those markets,










• 
political or economic instability or
changing macroeconomic conditions in our major markets, and










• 
changes in foreign or domestic legal and
regulatory requirements resulting in the imposition of new or more
onerous trade restrictions, tariffs, embargoes, exchange or other
government controls.


We monitor our foreign currency exposure in
Japan to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate
movements through foreign currency hedging of Coach Japan’s U.S.
dollar denominated inventory purchases. We cannot ensure, however, that
these hedges will succeed in offsetting any negative impact of foreign
currency rate movements.

A downturn in the economy could
affect consumer purchases of luxury items and adversely affect our
business.

Many factors affect the level of consumer
spending in the premium handbag and accessories market, including,
among others, general business conditions, interest rates, the
availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in
future economic conditions. Consumer 
10




Table of Contents

purchases of discretionary luxury items,
such as Coach products, tend to decline during recessionary periods,
when disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which
Coach sells its products may adversely affect Coach’s
sales.

Our business is subject to the risks inherent in
global sourcing activities. 

As a company engaged in
sourcing on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in
such activities, including, but not limited to:








• 
availability of raw materials,










• 
compliance with labor laws and other
foreign governmental regulations,










• 
disruptions or delays in shipments,










• 
loss or impairment of key manufacturing
sites,










• 
product quality issues,










• 
political
unrest,










• 
as well as natural disasters,
acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have
no control.


While we have business continuity and contingency
plans for our sourcing sites, significant disruption of manufacturing
for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply and, if not
remedied in a timely manner, could have an adverse impact on our
business.

Our business is subject to increased costs due to
excess inventories if we misjudge the demand for our
products.

If Coach misjudges the market for its products it
may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and
missed opportunities for other products. In addition, because Coach
places orders for products with its manufacturers before it receives
wholesale customers’ orders, it could experience higher excess
inventories if wholesale customers order fewer products than
anticipated.

Our operating results are subject to seasonal
and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market
price of Coach common stock.

Because Coach products are
frequently given as gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects
to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second
quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of
November and December. In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating
income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal
wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. However,
over the past several years, we have achieved higher levels of growth
in the non holiday quarters, which has reduced these seasonal
fluctuations. We expect that these trends will continue.

Provisions in Coach’s charter and bylaws, Maryland
law or its ‘‘poison pill’’ may delay or
prevent an acquisition of Coach by a third party.


Coach’s charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain
provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire Coach
without the consent of Coach’s Board of Directors.
Coach’s charter permits its Board of Directors, without
stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the
aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of
any class or series that Coach has the authority to issue. In addition,
Coach’s Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any
unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the
preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified
shares. Although Coach’s Board of Directors has no intention to
do so at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred
stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a
transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price
for Coach’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of
Coach’s stockholders.
On May  3,  2001 Coach
declared a ‘‘poison pill’’ dividend
distribution of rights to buy additional common stock to the holder of
each outstanding share of Coach’s common stock. Subject to
limited 
11




Table of Contents

exceptions, these rights may be exercised if
a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or more of
Coach’s common stock or announces a tender offer for 10%
or more of the common stock on terms not approved by the Coach Board of
Directors. In this event, each right would entitle the holder of each
share of Coach’s common stock to buy one additional common share
of Coach stock at an exercise price far below the then-current market
price. Subject to certain exceptions, Coach’s Board of Directors
will be entitled to redeem the rights at $0.0001 per right at any time
before the close of business on the tenth day following either the
public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of
Coach’s Board of Directors becomes aware that, a person has
acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common stock. As of the
end of fiscal 2006, there were no shareholders whose common stock
holdings exceeded the 10% threshold established by the rights
plan.
Coach’s bylaws can only be amended by
Coach’s Board of Directors. Coach’s bylaws also provide
that nominations of persons for election to Coach’s Board of
Directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a
stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by
Coach’s Board of Directors or by a stockholder who is entitled
to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice
procedures of Coach’s bylaws. Also, under Maryland law, business
combinations, including issuances of equity securities, between Coach
and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of
Coach’s common stock or an affiliate of such person are
prohibited for a five-year period unless exempted in accordance with
the statute. After this period, a combination of this type must be
approved by two super-majority stockholder votes, unless some
conditions are met or the business combination is exempted by
Coach’s Board of Directors. Coach’s Board has exempted
any business combination with us or any of our affiliates from the
five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote
requirements.
ITEM 1B