ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document and, in particular, the following risk factors associated with the Business of Coach and forward-looking information in this document. Please also see “Special Note on Forward-Looking Information” at the beginning of this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer.


The current economic conditions could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

The current uncertain economic conditions are having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. Our results can be impacted by a number of macroeconomic factors, including but not limited to consumer confidence and spending levels, unemployment, consumer credit availability, fuel and energy costs, global factory production, commercial real estate market conditions, credit market conditions and the level of customer traffic in malls and shopping centers. 

Demand for our products is significantly impacted by negative trends in consumer confidence and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. The general economic conditions in the economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our products for the foreseeable future and adversely impact our results of operations. 

The growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our growth strategies, including our efforts to expand internationally. 

Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products, as well as the successful design and introduction of new products. Our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position. 

Additionally, our current growth strategy includes plans to expand in a number of international regions, including Asia and Europe. We currently plan to open additional Coach stores in China, and we have entered into strategic agreements with various partners to expand our operations in Europe and to take control of certain of our retail operations in the Asia-Pacific region. We do not yet have significant experience operating in these countries, and in many of them we face established competitors. Many of these countries have different operational characteristics, including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real
estate, and local reporting or legal requirements. 



10



 

 



TABLE OF CONTENTS

Furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ in these countries, and as a result, sales of our product may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. In many of these countries, there is significant competition to attract and retain experienced and talented employees. If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. 

Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business. 

We face intense competition in the product lines and markets in which we operate. Our competitors are European luxury brands as well as private label retailers, including some of Coach’s wholesale customers. There is a risk that our competitors may develop new products that are more popular with our customers. We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of such product introductions by competitors, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete also depends on the strength of our brand, whether we can attract and retain key talent, and our ability to protect our trademarks and design patents. A failure to compete effectively could
adversely affect our growth and profitability. 

We face risks associated with operating in international markets. 

We operate on a global basis, with approximately 30% of our net sales coming from operations outside the U.S. However, sales to our international wholesale customers are denominated in U.S. dollars. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the Company’s exposure to risks in any one country, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including, but not limited to: 





          

          •

          changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may adversely affect the retail prices of our products, result in decreased international consumer demand, or increase our supply costs in those markets, with a corresponding negative impact on our gross margin rates, 









          

          •

          political or economic instability or changing macroeconomic conditions in our major markets, and 









          

          •

          changes in foreign or domestic legal and regulatory requirements resulting in the imposition of new or more onerous trade restrictions, tariffs, embargoes, exchange or other government controls. 





To minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements, we monitor our foreign currency exposure in Japan and Canada through foreign currency hedging of our subsidiaries’ U.S. dollar-denominated inventory purchases, as well as Coach Japan’s U.S. dollar-denominated intercompany loan. We cannot ensure, however, that these hedges will succeed in offsetting any negative impact of foreign currency rate movements. 

A downturn in the economy could affect consumer purchases of luxury items and adversely affect our business. 

Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the premium handbag and accessories market, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary luxury items, such as Coach products, tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower. A downturn or a worsening of the current conditions in the economies in which Coach sells its products may adversely affect Coach’s sales. 

Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing activities. 

As a company engaged in sourcing on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including, but not limited to: 





          

          •

          unavailability of raw materials, 









          

          •

          compliance with labor laws and other foreign governmental regulations, 









          

          •

          compliance with our Global Business Practices, 









          

          •

          disruptions or delays in shipments, 









          

          •

          loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, 







11



 

 



TABLE OF CONTENTS





          

          •

          product quality issues, 









          

          •

          political unrest, and 









          

          •

          natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. 





While we have business continuity and contingency plans for our sourcing sites, significant disruption of manufacturing for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied in a timely manner, could have an adverse impact on our business. 

Our business is subject to increased costs due to excess inventories if we misjudge the demand for our products. 

If Coach misjudges the market for its products it may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. In addition, because Coach places orders for products with its manufacturers before it receives wholesale customers’ orders, it could experience higher excess inventories if wholesale customers order fewer products than anticipated. 

Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of Coach common stock. 

Because Coach products are frequently given as gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of November and December. In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. 

If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be harmed. 

Our quarterly cash dividend is currently $0.15 per common share. The dividend program requires the use of a modest portion of our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our Board of Directors (“Board”) may, at its discretion, decrease the intended level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any failure to pay dividends after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our
reputation and investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price. 

Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results and stock price. 

We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement
period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. Further, there is proposed tax legislation that may be enacted in the future, which could negatively impact our current or future tax structure and effective tax rates. 

Provisions in Coach’s charter and bylaws, Maryland law or its “poison pill” may delay or prevent an acquisition of Coach by a third party. 

Coach’s charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Coach without the consent of Coach’s Board. Coach’s charter permits its Board, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that Coach has the authority to issue. In addition, Coach’s Board may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Although
Coach’s Board has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for Coach’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of Coach’s stockholders. 



12



 

 



TABLE OF CONTENTS

On May 3, 2001 Coach declared a “poison pill” dividend distribution of rights to buy additional common stock to the holder of each outstanding share of Coach’s common stock. Subject to limited exceptions, these rights may be exercised if a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or more of Coach’s common stock or announces a tender offer for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not approved by the Coach Board. In this event, each right would entitle the holder of each share of Coach’s common stock to buy one additional common share of Coach stock at an exercise price far below the then-current market price. Subject to
certain exceptions, Coach’s Board will be entitled to redeem the rights at $0.0001 per right at any time before the close of business on the tenth day following either the public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of Coach’s Board becomes aware that, a person has acquired 10% or more of the outstanding common stock. As of the end of fiscal 2010, there were no shareholders whose common stock holdings exceeded the 10% threshold established by the rights plan. 

Coach’s bylaws can only be amended by Coach’s Board. Coach’s bylaws also provide that nominations of persons for election to Coach’s Board and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by Coach’s Board or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of Coach’s bylaws. Also, under Maryland law, business combinations, including issuances of equity securities, between Coach and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of Coach’s common stock or an affiliate of such person are
prohibited for a five-year period, beginning on the date such person last becomes a 10% stockholder, unless exempted in accordance with the statute. After this period, a combination of this type must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes, unless some conditions are met or the business combination is exempted by Coach’s Board. 

ITEM 1B