Item 1A. Risk Factors.

 

A global recession may adversely affect us.

 

It is unclear how well the economy has recovered from a global recession that caused failures of financial institutions and led to unprecedented government intervention in the U.S., Europe and other regions of the world. If another recession emerges that impacts where we do business, risks may include:


declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows from reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of customers 
  

adverse impacts on our access to short-term commercial paper borrowings or other credit sources
  

supply problems associated with any financial constraints faced by our suppliers 


Reduction in U.S. Government spending may adversely impact Government Systems sales and profitability.

 

In 2011, 43 percent of our sales were derived from U.S. Government contracts, both directly and indirectly through subcontracts. Defense funding by the U.S. Government faces significant pressures and is expected to decline over the next few years due to the overall economic environment, budget deficits and competing budget priorities. Cost cutting, efficiency initiatives, reprioritization and other affordability analysis by the U.S. Government on defense spending could present some additional opportunities for us, but overall may adversely impact our Government Systems sales and profitability.

 

International conflicts and terrorism may adversely affect our business.

 

International conflicts such as the war in Afghanistan, political turmoil in the Middle and Far East and the possibility of future terrorist attacks cause significant uncertainty with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets and may adversely affect our business. These international conflicts also affect the price of oil, which has a significant impact on the financial health of our commercial customers. Although our Government Systems business may experience greater demand for its products as a result of increased government defense spending, factors arising (directly or indirectly) from international conflicts or terrorism which may adversely affect our commercial business include reduced aircraft build rates, upgrades, maintenance and spending on discretionary products such as in-flight entertainment, as well as increases in the cost of property and aviation products insurance and increased restrictions placed on our insurance policies. The war in Afghanistan creates the risk that our Government Systems customers may need to redirect funding from our existing business to pay for war-related activities. Furthermore, we currently hold only nominal insurance related to the effects of terrorist acts on our assets and our aircraft products.

 

We depend to a significant degree on U.S. Government contracts, which are subject to unique risks.

 

In addition to normal business risks, our supply of systems and products to the U.S. Government is subject to unique risks which are largely beyond our control. These risks include:


dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds 
  

the ability of the U.S. Government to terminate, without prior notice, partially completed government programs and contracts that were previously authorized 
  

changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies which may reflect military and political developments 
  

significant changes in contract scheduling or program structure, which generally result in delays or reductions in deliveries 
  

intense competition for available U.S. Government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development 
  

difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work 


8

 



 




changes over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, which generally result in adjustments of contract prices 
  

claims based on U.S. Government work, which may result in fines, the cancellation or suspension of payments or suspension or debarment proceedings affecting potential further business with the U.S. Government 


Our business is heavily concentrated in the aviation industry.

 

As a provider of products and services to the aviation industry, we are significantly affected by the overall economic condition of that industry. The aviation industry is historically cyclical.

 

Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted, among other things, by the following:


reductions in demand for aircraft and delayed aircraft delivery schedules 
  

challenges in the financial condition of some of our existing and potential customers
  

reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support
  

retirement or storage of older generation aircraft, resulting in fewer retrofits and less demand for services for those aircraft
  

limited availability of financing for airlines or aircraft
  

high fuel costs
  

health pandemics or other disruptions to commercial air travel demand 


New airspace management technologies may impact future sales.

 

The aerospace industry is experiencing a global transition from traditional communications, navigation, surveillance and air traffic control systems to air traffic management systems utilizing satellite-based technologies that will allow pilots to fly at desired paths and speeds selected in real time, while still complying with instrument flight regulations. The transition to these technologies will require the use of digital communications systems, global positioning system navigation, satellite surveillance techniques and ground surveillance systems. These technologies are expected to result in more direct and efficient flight routes, fewer flight delays and reduced airport congestion. Although we believe that we are well positioned to participate in this market evolution, our ability to capitalize on the transition to these airspace management technologies is subject to various risks, including:


delays in the development of the necessary satellite and ground infrastructure by U.S. and other governments
  

delays in adopting national and international regulatory standards
  

competitors developing better products
  

failure of our product development investments in communications, navigation and surveillance products that enable airspace management technologies to coincide with market evolution to, and demand for, these products
  

the ability and desire of customers to invest in products enabling airspace management technologies 


9

 



 



We derive a significant portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business outside the U.S.

 

In 2011, revenues from products and services exported from the U.S. or manufactured and serviced abroad were 30 percent of our total sales. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total sales. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including:


laws, regulations and policies of non-U.S. governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad
  

regulatory requirements and potential changes, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions and antitrust and data privacy requirements
  

changes in government spending on defense programs, including the potential spending decline in European countries
  

uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees
  

requirements of certain customers which obligate us to specified levels of in-country purchases, manufacturing or investments, known as offsets, and penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements
  

import and export licensing requirements and regulations
  

uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights
  

rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation 


We have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.

 

We completed five acquisitions in the last three years and we intend to enter into acquisitions in the future in an effort to enhance shareowner value. Acquisitions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties such as:


the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration
  

the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions
  

the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets
  

the risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties
  

the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses
  

the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations 


We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns.

 

During 2011, approximately 90 percent of our total sales were from, and a significant portion of our anticipated future sales will be from, fixed-price contracts. This allows us to benefit from cost savings, but it carries the burden of potential cost overruns since we assume all of the cost risk. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can incur losses on these contracts. These fixed-price contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the customer may compel us to complete a project or, in the event of a termination for default, pay the entire incremental cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. Because many of these projects involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with subcontractors and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. Furthermore, if we do not meet project deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 

 

10

 



 



Costs of certain employee and retiree benefits may continue to rise.

 

Although we have taken action seeking to contain volatility in the costs related to medical and pension benefits, there are risks that our costs for these benefits will increase as a result of:


continued increases in medical costs related to current employees due to increased usage of medical benefits, medical inflation and the impact of recent U.S. Government health care legislation
  

material changes in legislation or market dynamics as a result impacting medical or pension matters
  

the effect declines in the stock and bond markets have on the performance of our pension plan assets
  

potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our retirement benefit obligations 


Tax changes could affect our effective tax rate and future profitability.

 

Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability and changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax legislation, the results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessment of our tax exposures.

 

We depend on specialized test equipment.

 

Some of our specialized test equipment that supports the reliability of our products and systems is the result of significant investment. Back up test equipment may not be readily available. Damage to our specialized test equipment may result in protracted production recovery.

 

A cybersecurity incident could have negative impact.

 

A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology (IT) security systems causing an IT security breach, may lead to a material disruption of our IT business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in adverse business impact. Risks may include: 


future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property
  

operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities
  

negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers 


11

 



 



Cautionary Statement

 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents that are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain statements, including certain projections and business trends, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the financial condition of our customers, including bankruptcies; the health of the global economy, including potential deterioration in economic and financial market conditions; the rate of recovery of the commercial aftermarket; the impacts of earthquakes or other natural disasters, including potential supply shortages and other economic impacts; cybersecurity threats, including the potential misappropriation of assets or other sensitive information, corruption of data or operational disruption; delays related to the award of domestic and international contracts; the continued support for military transformation and modernization programs; potential adverse impact of oil prices on the commercial aerospace industry; the impact of terrorist events on the commercial aerospace industry; potential declining defense budgets resulting from budget deficits in the U.S. and abroad; impact from the delay in the resolution of program funding in the 2012 U.S. defense budget; changes in domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary, procurement and trade policies adverse to our businesses; market acceptance of our new and existing technologies, products and services; reliability of and customer satisfaction with our products and services; favorable outcomes on or potential cancellation or restructuring of contracts, orders or program priorities by our customers; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; regulatory restrictions on air travel due to environmental concerns; effective negotiation of collective bargaining agreements by us and our customers; performance of our customers and subcontractors; risks inherent in development and fixed-price contracts, particularly the risk of cost overruns; risk of significant reduction to air travel or aircraft capacity beyond our forecasts; our ability to execute to our internal performance plans such as our productivity and quality improvements and cost reduction initiatives; achievement of our acquisition and related integration plans; continuing to maintain our planned effective tax rates; our ability to develop contract compliant systems and products on schedule and within anticipated cost estimates; risk of fines and penalties related to noncompliance with laws and regulations including export control and environmental regulations; risk of asset impairments; our ability to win new business and convert those orders to sales within the fiscal year in accordance with our annual operating plan; and the uncertainties of the outcome of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed herein and from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof.

 

Item 1B