Item 1A. Risk Factors.You should consider the following risks and all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur or other risks arise or develop, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, may be materially and adversely affected.Risks Relating to Our BusinessThe beauty business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results will suffer.We face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including large multinational consumer products companies. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do and may be able to respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than we can. Most of our products compete with other widely-advertised brands within each product segment. Competition in the beauty business is based on pricing of products, quality of products and packaging, perceived value and quality of brands, innovation, in-store presence and visibility, promotional activities, advertising, editorials, e-commerce and mobile-commerce initiatives and other activities. It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors’ actions in these areas or whether new competitors will emerge in the beauty business, including competitors who offer comparable products at more attractive prices. In particular, the fragrances segment and nail category in the U.S. are being influenced by the high volume of new product introductions by diverse companies across several 9different distribution channels, including private label brands and lower cost brands that have increased pricing pressure. In addition, further technological breakthroughs, new product offerings by competitors, and the strength and success of our competitors’ marketing programs may impede our growth and the implementation of our business strategy. Our ability to compete also depends on the continued strength of our products, including our power brands, other brands, and the P&G Beauty Brands the success of our branding, innovation and execution strategies, our ability to acquire or enter into new licenses and to continue to act as licensee of choice for various brands, the success of any future acquisitions, the continued diversity of our product offerings to help us compete effectively, the successful management of new product introductions and innovations, our success in entering new markets and expanding our business in existing geographies and our ability to protect our intellectual property. If we are unable to continue to compete effectively on a global basis, it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Rapid changes in market trends and consumer preferences could adversely affect our financial results.Our continued success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and cost-effective manner to industry trends and to changes in consumer preferences for fragrances, color cosmetics, skin & body care products and following the Transactions, haircare, consumer attitudes toward our industry and brands and changes in where and how consumers shop for those products. We must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, achieve a favorable mix of products and refine our approach as to how and where we market and sell our products. Net revenues and margins on beauty products tend to decline as they advance in their life cycles, so our net revenues and margins could suffer if we do not successfully and continuously develop new products. While we devote considerable effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly, which could impact demand for our products. Additionally, due to the increasing use of social and digital media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared, trends and tastes may continue to change even more quickly. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the market for beauty and related products and changing consumer demands, our brand names and brand images may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changing trends and consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brand images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular or trend-setting. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our brands, business, financial condition and operating results.Our success depends on our ability to achieve our global business strategy, including our key business strategies following the Transactions. Our future growth, profitability and cash flows depend upon our ability to successfully implement our global business strategy, which is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to:•develop our power brands portfolio through branding, innovation and execution;•execute any acquisitions efficiently and integrate businesses successfully;•identify and incubate new and existing brands with the potential to develop into global power brands;•innovate and develop new products that are appealing to the consumer;•extend our brands into the other segments of the beauty industry in which we compete and develop new brands;•acquire or enter into new licenses;•expand our geographic presence to take advantage of opportunities in developed and emerging markets;•continue to expand our distribution channels within existing geographies to increase market presence, brand recognition and sales;•expand our market presence through alternative distribution channels;•expand margins through sales growth, the development of higher margin products and supply chain integration and efficiency initiatives;•optimize the efficiency of our marketing spend and in-store execution;•manage capital investments and working capital effectively to improve the generation of cash flow; and •execute any divestitures or discontinuations of any of our brands efficiently.There can be no assurance that we can successfully achieve any or all of the above initiatives in the manner or time period that we expect. Further, achieving these objectives will require investments which may result in short-term costs without generating any current net revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings, at least in the short term. In addition, we may decide to divest or discontinue certain brands or streamline operations and incur other costs or special charges in doing so. We cannot give any assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated strategic benefits we expect our strategy 10will achieve. The failure to realize those benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In May 2016, we announced that we intend to rationalize six to eight percent of combined company net revenues following the close of the Transactions by divesting or discontinuing non-strategic brands. We also intend to rationalize wholesale distribution by reducing the amount of product diversion to the value and mass channels. It will take time to execute this strategy, which may result in expenses and charges as we exit such brands, and our ability to successfully do so could impact our results. We may not realize the benefits that we expect from our Organizational Redesign. On July 9, 2014, we announced an organizational structure (“Organizational Redesign”) aimed at reinforcing our growth path and strengthening our position as a global leader in beauty.  Additionally, on November 3, 2015, we announced that after the completion of the Transactions, we intend to reorganize our business into three new divisions: Coty Luxury Division, Coty Consumer Beauty Division and Coty Professional Beauty Division (the “Post-Merger Reorganization”).The successful implementation of our Organizational Redesign and our Post-Merger Reorganization presents significant organizational challenges and uncertainties and may also require successful negotiations with third parties, including labor organizations, suppliers and other business partners. As a result, we may not be able to realize in full the anticipated benefits from our Organizational Redesign or our Post-Merger Reorganization. Events and circumstances such as financial or strategic difficulties, unexpected employee turnover, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in us not realizing all of the anticipated benefits or us not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable.  If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of our Organizational Redesign, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. Any failure to implement our Organizational Redesign or our Post-Merger Reorganization in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or realize the full intended benefit of acquisitions we undertake.During the past several years, we have explored and undertaken opportunities to acquire other companies and assets as part of our growth strategy. The assets we have acquired in the past several years represent a significant portion of our net assets. We continue to seek financially accretive acquisitions that we believe strengthen our competitive position in our key segments or accelerate our ability to grow our emerging markets presence, including, for example, our Brazil Acquisition and the Transactions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms or otherwise realize the full intended benefit of such transactions. For example, in fiscal 2014, despite efforts to organize the management team and introduce new product innovation, the execution of the brand revamp plan by the management team for TJoy did not gain expected results, resulting in TJoy performing below our expectations and impairments of trademarks.  In June 2014, we made the decision to discontinue the TJoy brand. Similarly, Philosophy earned lower net revenues than expected in the first fiscal year after its acquisition primarily due to delays in planned international distribution expansion, an innovation plan that was less successful than expected and a slowdown of brand sales momentum in certain key retailers, all of which also resulted in impairments of trademarks. See “—Our goodwill and other assets have been subject to impairment and may continue to be subject to impairment in the future” and “—The purchase price of future acquisitions may not be representative of the operations acquired.” Our failure to achieve intended benefits from any future acquisitions could cause a material adverse effect on our results, business or financial condition.Our acquisition activities may present managerial, integration, operational and financial risks.We completed the Brazil Acquisition in February 2016 and expect to close the Transactions in October 2016. Our acquisition activities expose us to certain risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses and potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses. If required, the financing for an acquisition could increase our indebtedness, dilute the interests of our stockholders or both. The assumptions we use to evaluate acquisition opportunities may not prove to be accurate, and intended benefits may not be realized. In addition, acquisitions of foreign businesses, such as the Brazil Acquisition, entail certain particular risks, including difficulties in markets and environments where we lack a significant presence, including inability to seize opportunities available in those markets in comparison to our global or local competitors. For example, our growth strategy may require us to seek market penetration through sales channels with which we are not familiar, which may be the dominant sales channels in the relevant geographies. To the extent we acquire businesses located in countries or jurisdictions with currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar equivalent cost of the acquisition, as well as future profits and revenues, may be adversely impacted should exchange rates vary in unexpected ways. We may experience difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses, such as the difficulties we experienced in our acquisition of TJoy relating to the earlier than expected departure of key employees and transition to new leadership. Even if we are able to integrate our acquired businesses, such transactions involve the risk of unanticipated or unknown liabilities, including with 11respect to environmental and regulatory matters. Our failure to successfully integrate any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Our operations and acquisitions in certain foreign areas expose us to political, regulatory, economic and reputational risks.We currently have offices in more than 35 countries and market, sell and distribute our products in over 130 countries and territories. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to grow in emerging markets. Our presence in such markets may also expand as a result of our acquisitions, including the Brazil Acquisition and the Transactions. Our acquisitions and operations in some emerging markets may be subject to greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than are common in established areas. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and trainings designed to ensure compliance with anti-bribery laws, trade controls and economic sanctions, and similar regulations, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. We may incur costs or other penalties in the event that any such violations occur, which could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.The U.S. has imposed export controls and economic sanctions that prohibit export or re-export of products subject to U.S. jurisdiction to specified end users and destinations, and/or prohibit U.S. companies and other U.S. persons from engaging in business activities with certain persons, entities, countries or governments that it determines are adverse to U.S. foreign policy interests, including Iran and Syria. In 2012, we determined that our majority-owned subsidiary in the United Arab Emirates (“UAE”) had re-exported certain of our products manufactured in the U.S. to Syria, which may have been in violation of U.S. export control laws. We have taken remedial action to cease further sales to Syria.  After voluntarily reporting these re-exports to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security’s Office of Export Enforcement (the “OEE”), we received a warning letter from the OEE on January 6, 2014 stating that the OEE had closed its investigation.  No financial penalties were imposed. In addition, we voluntarily reported to the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) that some of the affiliate’s Syria sales were made to a party that was designated as a target of U.S. economic sanctions by OFAC. We also determined that the same affiliate had re-exported some of our products to Iran through an intermediary UAE entity. We ceased all sales to the OFAC-designated party in January 2010 and have ceased all sales to Iran, Syria and OFAC-designated parties. On May 12, 2015, OFAC decided to resolve the matter of these sales by issuing a cautionary letter and declining to impose a financial penalty.  The cautionary letter does not preclude OFAC from taking further action if we violate OFAC administered sanctions in the future. We may experience reputational harm and increased regulatory scrutiny as a result of our subsidiary’s sales to Syria and Iran. In addition, the U.S. may impose additional sanctions at any time on other countries where we sell our products. If so, our existing activities may be adversely affected, or we may incur costs in order to come into compliance with future sanctions, depending on the nature of any further sanctions that may be imposed.Under U.S. law, U.S. companies and their controlled-in-fact foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are prohibited from participating in unsanctioned foreign boycotts. Currently, the U.S. considers the Arab League boycott of Israel to constitute an unsanctioned foreign boycott. In the course of our internal investigation into compliance with U.S. export laws by our majority-owned subsidiary in the UAE, we determined that the subsidiary may have violated EAR anti-boycott laws by certifying on invoices (including some that involved goods manufactured in the U.S.) that the orders did not contain any materials of Israeli origin. See “—We may incur penalties and experience other adverse effects on our business as a result of possible EAR violations” for additional information regarding risks related to such certifications.In addition, some of our recent acquisitions have required us to integrate non-U.S. companies which had not, until our acquisition, been subject to U.S. law. In many countries outside of the U.S., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for persons to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the FCPA or similar local anti-bribery laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Failure by us and our subsidiaries to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.We may incur penalties and experience other adverse effects on our business as a result of possible EAR violations.In 2012, we determined that our majority-owned subsidiary in the UAE had re-exported certain of our products to Syria, and we voluntarily reported these transactions to OEE.  We also undertook remedial action to prevent any further such transactions, including auditing the subsidiary and notifying each of the subsidiary’s employees and distributors of the current U.S. sanctions and export control laws and asking that each distributor acknowledge the same. We also notified OFAC of our voluntary disclosure to the OEE. We received a warning letter from the OEE on January 6, 2014 stating that the OEE had closed its investigation, and that the OEE imposed no financial penalties. On May 12, 2015, OFAC decided to resolve the matter of these sales by issuing a cautionary letter and declining to impose a financial penalty. However, in the course of our internal investigation into compliance by our majority-owned subsidiary in the UAE with U.S. export control laws, we also determined that the subsidiary may have violated EAR anti-boycott laws by including a legend on invoices confirming that the corresponding goods did not contain materials of Israeli origin. A number of the invoices involved U.S.-origin goods. We 12voluntarily disclosed the potential violations to the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, Office of Antiboycott Compliance (“OAC”) and undertook remedial action to prevent any further inclusion of the legends on invoices.Penalties for EAR violations can be significant and civil penalties can be imposed on a strict liability basis, without any showing of knowledge or willfulness.  OAC has wide discretion to settle claims for violations. We believe that a penalty or penalties that would result in a material loss are reasonably possible. Irrespective of any penalty, we could suffer other adverse effects on our business as a result of any violations or the potential violations, including legal costs and harm to our reputation, and we also will incur costs associated with our efforts to improve our compliance procedures. We have not established a reserve for potential penalties. We do not know whether OAC will assess a penalty or what the amount of any penalty would be, if a penalty or penalties were assessed. See Note 25, “Commitments and Contingencies” in the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.If we are unable to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, in particular trademarks, patents and copyrights, or if our brand partners and licensors are unable to maintain and protect their intellectual property rights that we use in connection with our products, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted.Our intellectual property is a valuable asset of our business. For example, the market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our product innovations and our owned and licensed brands. Although certain of our intellectual property is registered in the U.S. and in several of the foreign countries in which we operate, there can be no assurances with respect to the rights associated with such intellectual property in those countries, including our ability to register, use or defend key trademarks. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade dress, patent, copyright, unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, these laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited and uncertain protection and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, including by counterfeiters as discussed under “—The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or the unauthorized diversion by third parties of our products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business,” which could adversely affect our competitive position or ability to sell our products. In addition, our intellectual property portfolio in many foreign countries is less extensive than our portfolio in the U.S., and the laws of foreign countries, including many emerging markets in which we operate, such as China, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The costs required to protect our trademarks and patents may be substantial.In addition, we may fail to apply for, or be unable to obtain, intellectual property protection for certain aspects of our business. For example, we cannot provide assurance that our applications for patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be granted, or, if granted, will provide meaningful protection. In addition, third parties have in the past and could in the future bring infringement, invalidity, co-inventorship, re-examination, opposition or similar claims with respect to any of our current trademarks, patents and copyrights, or any trademarks, patents or copyrights that we may seek to obtain in the future. Any such claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, damage our reputation and brands, and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. Furthermore, patent expirations may affect our business and operating results. As patents expire, competitors may be able to legally produce and market products similar to ours, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. In order to protect or enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, or to determine the enforceability, scope or validity of the intellectual or proprietary rights of others, we may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties, such as infringement suits, opposition proceedings or interference proceedings. Any lawsuits or proceedings that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Litigation and other proceedings also put our intellectual property at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits or other proceedings that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, many of our products bear, and the value of our brands is affected by, the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of our brand partners and licensors. Our brand partners’ and licensors’ ability to maintain and protect their trademark and other intellectual property rights is subject to risks similar to those described above with respect to our intellectual property. We do not control the protection of the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of our brand partners and licensors and cannot ensure that our brand partners and licensors will be able to secure or protect their trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The loss of any of our significant owned or licensed trademarks, patents, copyrights or other intellectual property in any jurisdiction where we conduct a material portion of our business or where we plan geographic expansion could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.13Our success depends on our ability to operate our business without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the trademarks, patents, copyrights and proprietary rights of other parties.Our commercial success depends at least in part on our ability to operate without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the trademarks, patents, copyrights and other proprietary rights of others. However, we cannot be certain that the conduct of our business does not and will not infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate such rights. Many companies have employed intellectual property litigation as a way to gain a competitive advantage, and to the extent we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we may also face a greater risk of being the subject of such litigation. For these and other reasons, third parties may allege that our products, services or activities infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate their trademark, patent, copyright or other proprietary rights. Defending against allegations and litigation could be expensive, take significant time, divert management’s attention from other business concerns, and delay getting our products to market. In addition, if we are found to be infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating third party trademark, patent, copyright or other proprietary rights, we may need to obtain a license, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or redesign or rebrand our products, which may not be possible. We may also be required to pay substantial damages or be subject to a court order prohibiting us and our customers from selling certain products or engaging in certain activities. Our inability to operate our business without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the trademarks, patents, copyrights and proprietary rights of others could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our goodwill and other assets have been subject to impairment and may continue to be subject to impairment in the future.We are required, at least annually, or as facts and circumstances warrant, to test goodwill and other assets to determine if impairment has occurred. Impairment may result from any number of factors, including adverse changes in assumptions used for valuation purposes, such as actual or projected net revenue growth rates, profitability or discount rates, or other variables. If the testing indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or the fair value of other assets in the period the determination is made. We cannot always accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other assets become impaired, it would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal 2014 we recorded asset impairment charges of $316.9 million.  The fiscal 2014 impairment charge of $60.5 million primarily related to TJoy’s trademark, customer relationships and manufacturing facility.  Additionally, goodwill impairment charges of $256.4 on our Skin & Body Care reporting unit were included in the fiscal 2014 impairment charges. These asset impairment charges are described under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Results of Operations —Operating Income —Adjusted Operating Income —Asset Impairment Charges.” The purchase price of future acquisitions may not be representative of the operations acquired. During the past several years, we have taken advantage of selected acquisition opportunities that we believed would complement our current product offerings, expand our distribution channels, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer operating efficiency opportunities and growth potential. Among other acquisitions in fiscal 2011, we acquired 100% of TJoy for a total cash purchase price of $351.7 million via a stock purchase.  In fiscal 2014, we incurred asset impairment charges of $316.9 million, representing the write-off of goodwill, identifiable intangible assets and certain tangible assets with respect to our Skin & Body Care reporting unit.  These impairment charges were driven by TJoy, where cash outflows significantly exceeded management expectations notwithstanding the reorganization of the management team and distribution network and the launch of new product offerings.We are not aware of any other impairments at this time, and we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any other such impairments, if any. We may experience subsequent impairment charges with respect to goodwill, intangible assets or other items, as we did in fiscal 2014. It is possible that our recent and future acquisitions, such as the Bourjois acquisition, the Brazil Acquisition and the Transactions may result in acquisition of additional goodwill and/or other intangible assets. Any such goodwill or assets acquired may become subject to impairment, which would reflect that the purchase price paid or owed with respect to such acquisitions is not representative of the operations or business acquired, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.A general economic downturn, the debt crisis and economic environment in Europe or a sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our financial results.The general level of consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs and consumer confidence, each of which is beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods and otherwise weak economic environments, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. For example, our net revenues declined in the 2008-09 economic downturn, and our fiscal 2014 net revenues were affected by a slowdown in the U.S. beauty market in the segments in which we compete, particularly in the mass channel. Global events beyond our control may impact our business, operating results and 14financial condition. For example, the U.K. recently held a referendum in which a majority of voters voted to exit the European Union, which caused significant volatility in the financial markets. See “—The U.K.’s impending departure from the European Union could have a material adverse effect on us.”Weak economic environments in Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere could affect the demand for our products and may result in longer sales cycles, slower acceptance of new products and increased competition for sales. For example, the weak economic environment in the U.S. and Europe has contributed to declines in the fragrances segment and nail category in the combined region. Deterioration of economic conditions in Europe or elsewhere could also impair collections on accounts receivable. In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions, for example, as a consequence of events such as a pandemic, or as a result of a terrorist attack, retaliation or the threat of further attacks or retaliation, or as a result of adverse weather conditions or climate changes, can have a short- and, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending. Events that impact consumers’ willingness or ability to travel and/or purchase our products while traveling have impacted our travel retail business, and may continue to do so in the future. A downturn in the economies in which we sell our products or a sudden disruption of business conditions in those economies where our travel retail business is located could adversely affect our net revenues and profitability.If consumer purchases decrease, we may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our obligations and commitments. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to raise necessary funds. We cannot predict whether we would be able to undertake any of these actions to raise funds on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms.A sudden disruption in business conditions or a general economic downturn may affect the financial strength of our customers that are retailers, which could adversely affect our financial results.A decline in consumer purchases tends to impact our retailer customers. The financial difficulties of a retailer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. We may also decide to assume more credit risk relating to the receivables from that retailer. Our inability to collect receivables from one of our largest customers that is a retailer, or from a group of these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If a retailer were to go into liquidation, we could incur additional costs if we choose to purchase the retailer’s inventory of our products to protect brand equity.Volatility in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business.While we currently generate significant cash flows from our ongoing operations and have access to global credit markets through our various financing activities, credit markets may experience significant disruptions. Deterioration in global financial markets could make future financing difficult or more expensive. If any financial institutions that are parties to our credit facility or other financing arrangements, such as interest rate or foreign currency exchange hedging instruments, were to declare bankruptcy or become insolvent, they may be unable to perform under their agreements with us. This could leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or could leave us unhedged against certain interest rate or foreign currency exposures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of certain items required by our operations, such as raw materials, transportation and freight, may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies in which their price or cost is quoted or analyzed. We hedge certain exposures to foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business in order to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations.Our debt facilities require us to comply with specified financial covenants that may restrict our current and future operations and limit our flexibility and ability to respond to changes or take certain actions.We remain dependent upon others for our financing needs, and our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants. The Coty Credit Agreement, as amended by the Incremental Credit Agreement (each as defined below under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results of Operations—Financial Condition-Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt”) contains covenants requiring us to maintain specific financial ratios and contain certain restrictions on us with respect to guarantees, liens, sales of certain assets, consolidations and mergers, affiliate transactions, indebtedness, dividends and other distributions and changes of control. There is a risk that these covenants could constrain execution of our business strategy and growth plans, including acquisitions. Should we decide to pursue an acquisition that requires financing that would result in a violation of our existing debt covenants, refusal of our current lenders to permit waivers or amendments to our existing covenants could delay or prevent consummation of our plans. The Revolving Credit Facility, Term Loan A Facility and Term Loan B Facility (each as defined below under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results of Operations—Financial Condition-Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt”) under the Coty Credit Agreement, as amended by the Amendment, will expire in October 2020, October 2020 and October 2022, respectively. There is no assurance that alternative financing or financing on as favorable terms will be found when these agreements expire. See also “—We expect to guarantee a significant amount of debt as a result of the Transactions” and “—Our debt facilities following completion of the Transactions will require us to continue to comply with specified financial covenants that may restrict our current and future operations and limit our flexibility and ability to respond to changes or take certain actions.”15We are subject to risks related to our international operations.We operate on a global basis, and the majority of our fiscal 2016 net revenues was generated outside the U.S. We maintain offices in over 35 countries and have key operational facilities located outside the U.S. that manufacture, warehouse or distribute goods for sale throughout the world. In addition, during fiscal 2016, the Brazil Acquisition enhanced our footprint in Brazil. As of June 30, 2016, approximately 71% of our total net revenues, and approximately 45% of our long-lived assets were attributable to our foreign operations. Non-U.S. operations are subject to many risks and uncertainties, including:•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which have affected and may in the future affect our results of operations, reported earnings, the value of our foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and the cost of certain inventory and non-inventory items required by our operations;•changes in foreign laws, regulations and policies, including restrictions on foreign investment, trade, import and export license requirements, quotas, trade barriers and other protection measures imposed by foreign countries, and tariffs and taxes, as well as changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment;•difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including the FCPA, and different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments;•lack of well-established or reliable legal and administrative systems;•failure to effectively and immediately implement processes and policies across our diverse operations and employee base; and•adverse weather conditions, social and economic conditions, terrorist attacks, war or other military action or violent revolution, such as recent events in Greece, Ukraine, Russia and the Middle East, and other geopolitical conditions.We intend to reinvest undistributed earnings and profits from our foreign operations indefinitely, except where we are able to repatriate these earnings to the U.S. without material incremental tax expenditures. Any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates. In addition, there have been proposals to change U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. We cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation may pass. If enacted, such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. Further, certain U.S. tax provisions have expired that, if not retroactively extended, could materially and adversely affect the tax positions of many U.S. multinationals, including ourselves.Substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents that result from these earnings remain outside the U.S. As of June 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014, cash and cash equivalents in foreign operations included $364.8 million, $337.7 million and $1.233 billion, or 98%, 99% and 99.6% of aggregate cash and cash equivalents, respectively.We are also subject to the interpretation and enforcement by governmental agencies of other foreign laws, rules, regulations or policies, including any changes thereto, such as restrictions on trade, import and export license requirements, privacy and data protection laws, and tariffs and taxes, which may require us to adjust our operations in certain markets where we do business. We face legal and regulatory risks in the U.S. and, in particular, cannot predict with certainty the outcome of various contingencies or the impact that pending or future legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business. It is not possible to gauge what any final regulation may provide, its effective date or its impact at this time. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.The U.K.’s impending departure from the European Union could have a material adverse effect on us.On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which a majority of voters voted to exit the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit.” As a result of the referendum, it is expected that the British government will commence negotiations to determine the terms of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union. A withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the European Union, undermine bilateral cooperation in key geographic areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the European Union or other nations as the U.K. pursues independent trade relations. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to European Union or other markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union would have and how such withdrawal would affect us.The announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations, in particular in the value of the British pound and euro. The announcement of Brexit and the withdrawal of the U.K. from the 16European Union may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our customers to reevaluate their spending budgets. Any of these effects of Brexit, and others that we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.Exchange rate fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in our operations. The main currencies to which we are exposed are the euro, the British pound, the Polish zloty, the Russian ruble, the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar. The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. A depreciation of these currencies against the U.S. dollar will decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amounts derived from foreign operations reported in our consolidated financial statements and an appreciation of these currencies will result in a corresponding increase in such amounts. The cost of certain items, such as raw materials, transportation and freight, required by our operations may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. To the extent that we are required to pay for goods or services in foreign currencies, the appreciation of such currencies against the U.S. dollar will tend to negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.Our failure to protect our reputation, or the failure of our partners to protect their reputations, could have a material adverse effect on our brand images.Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our various brand images. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for product quality and integrity or if we, or the third parties with whom we do business, do not comply with regulations or accepted practices. Similarly, as a result of the Transactions, our reputation could be jeopardized if P&G fails to maintain product quality and integrity standards that impact P&G Beauty Brands prior to or following the closing of the Transactions. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our products. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, such as animal testing, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, including applicable U.S. trade sanctions, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. See “—Our operations and acquisitions in certain foreign areas expose us to political, regulatory, economic and reputational risks” and “—We may incur penalties and experience other adverse effects on our business as a result of possible EAR violations.” We are also dependent on the reputations of our brand partners and licensors, which can be affected by matters outside of our control. Damage to our reputation or the reputations of our brand partners or licensors or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.Our business is subject to seasonal variability.Our sales generally increase during our second fiscal quarter as a result of increased demand by retailers associated with the holiday season. Accordingly, our financial performance, sales, working capital requirements, cash flow and borrowings generally experience variability during the three to six months preceding the holiday period. Any substantial decrease in net revenues, in particular during periods of increased sales due to seasonality, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We sell our products in a continually changing retail environment.The retail industry, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, has continued to experience consolidation and other ownership changes, and the business environment for selling fragrances, color cosmetics, and skin & body care products may change further. During the last several years, significant consolidation has occurred. The trend toward consolidation, particularly in developed markets such as the U.S. and Western Europe, has resulted in our becoming increasingly dependent on key retailers that control a higher percentage of retail locations, including large-format retailers and consolidated entities that own retail chains in both the mass and prestige distribution channels, which have increased their bargaining strength. Major retailers may, in the future, continue to consolidate, undergo restructuring or realign their affiliations, which could decrease the number of stores that sell our products or increase ownership concentration within the retail industry. Further business combinations among retailers may impede our growth and the implementation of our business strategy. In addition, the highly competitive U.S. discount and drug store environment has resulted in financial difficulties and store closings for a number of retailers, several of whom have liquidated or been acquired as a result. During the first half of fiscal 2014, retailers, particularly in North America, reduced to a substantial extent their inventories of products, including our products. In fiscal 2016, no retailer accounted for more than 10% of our global net revenues; however, certain retailers accounted for more than 10% of net revenues within certain geographic markets, including the U.S.This trend towards consolidation has also resulted in an increased risk related to the concentration of our customers with respect to which we do not have long-term sales agreements or other contractual assurances as to future sales. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from us at any time and for any reason, which, in 17addition to a general deterioration of our customers’ business operations, could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our business.As the retail industry changes, consumers may prefer to purchase their fragrances and cosmetics from other distribution channels than those we use, and we may not be as successful in penetrating those channels as we currently are in other channels, or as successful as our competitors are. For example, we have historically not sold products through the direct sales channel in the markets where it is significant, and we are less experienced in e-commerce, direct response and door-to-door than in our more traditional distribution channels. Assuming e-commerce, direct response and door-to-door sales continue to grow worldwide, we will need to continue to develop strategies for these channels in order to remain competitive. If we are not successful in the direct sales channel, we may experience lower than expected revenues or be required to recognize impairments. See “—Our goodwill and other assets have been subject to impairment and may continue to be subject to impairment in the future.”In addition, as we expand into new markets, other distribution channels that we do not utilize may be more significant. Although we have been able to recognize and adjust to many such changes in the retail industry to date, we can make no assurance as to our ability to make such adjustments in the future or the future effect of any such changes, including any potential material adverse effect such changes could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. This concern is also valid with respect to new markets with which we are less familiar. A disruption in operations could adversely affect our business.As a company engaged in manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, pandemics, border disputes, acts of terrorism, and other external factors over which we have no control. The loss of, or damage to, any of our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our decision to outsource certain functions means that we are dependent on the entities performing those functions.As part of our long-term strategy, we are continually looking for opportunities to provide essential business services in a more cost-effective manner. In some cases, this requires the outsourcing of functions or parts of functions that can be performed more effectively by external service providers. The dependence on a third party could lessen our control over deliveries to our customers. While we believe we conduct appropriate due diligence before entering into agreements with outsourcing entities, the failure of one or more such entities to provide the expected services, provide them on a timely basis or provide them at the prices we expect, or the costs incurred in returning these outsourced functions to being performed under our management and direct control, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.Third-party suppliers provide, among other things, the raw materials used to manufacture our products, and the loss of these suppliers, damage to our third-party suppliers’ reputations or a disruption or interruption in the supply chain may adversely affect our business.We manufacture and package a majority of our products. Raw materials, consisting chiefly of essential oils, chemicals, containers and packaging components, are purchased from various third-party suppliers. The loss of multiple suppliers or a significant disruption or interruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on the manufacturing and packaging of our products. Increases in the costs of raw materials or other commodities may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution. In addition, failure by our third-party suppliers to comply with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental laws, regulations or standards, such as conflict minerals requirements, or their engagement in politically or socially controversial conduct, such as animal testing, could negatively impact their reputations. Any of these failures or behaviors could lead to various adverse consequences, including damage to our reputation, decreased sales and consumer boycotts.Furthermore, P&G Beauty Brands has contracts with third-party suppliers, vendors, customers, landlords and other business partners which may require us or it to obtain consents from these other parties in connection with our transaction with P&G.  If these consents cannot be obtained, we or the P&G Beauty Brands may suffer a loss of potential future revenues and may lose rights that are material to our or its respective businesses and the business of the combined company. In addition, third parties with whom we or the P&G Beauty Brands currently have relationships may terminate or otherwise reduce the scope of their relationship with either party in anticipation of the transaction. Any such disruptions could limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction.18We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted.We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. We also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. These information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties that we do not control, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results.In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers or suppliers. In addition, the unauthorized disclosure of nonpublic sensitive information could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete.Our success depends, in part, on our employees.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our employees, including our key personnel, such as our executive officers and senior management team and our research and development and marketing personnel. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense, and although our key personnel have signed non-compete agreements, it is possible that these agreements would be unenforceable in some jurisdictions, permitting employees in those jurisdictions to transfer their skills and knowledge to the benefit of our competitors with little or no restriction. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business. These risks may be exacerbated by the stresses associated with the integration of Galleria, implementation of our strategic plan, our recently announced reorganization, recent changes in our senior management team and other initiatives.Our success depends, in part, on the quality, efficacy and safety of our products.Product safety or quality failures, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination, even when false or unfounded, or inclusion of regulated ingredients could tarnish the image of our brands and could cause consumers to choose other products. Allegations of contamination or other adverse effects on product safety or suitability for use by a particular consumer, even if untrue, may require us from time to time to recall a product from all of the markets in which the affected production was distributed. Such issues or recalls could negatively affect our profitability and brand image.If our products are perceived to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our consumers’ standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we could lose sales or become subject to liability claims. In addition, safety or other defects in our competitors’ products could reduce consumer demand for our own products if consumers view them to be similar. Any of these outcomes could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to successfully manage our inventories.We currently engage in a program seeking to improve control over our inventories. This program has identified, and may continue to identify, inventories that are not saleable in the ordinary course, and that may have an adverse effect on our financial results. Moreover, there is no assurance that any inventory management program will be successful. If we misjudge consumer preferences or demands or future sales do not reach forecasted levels, we could have excess inventory that we may need to hold for a long period of time, write down, sell at prices lower than expected or discard. If we are not successful in managing our inventory, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Changes in laws, regulations and policies that affect our business or products could adversely affect our financial results.Our business is subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies. Changes in the laws, regulations and policies, including the interpretation or enforcement thereof, that affect, or will affect, our business or products, including changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, environmental or climate change laws, restrictions or requirements related to product content, labeling and packaging, regulations or accords, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result, could adversely affect our financial results. See “—The U.K.’s impending departure from the European Union could have a material adverse effect on us”.19Our new product introductions may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.We have a rigorous process for the continuous development and evaluation of new product concepts, led by executives in marketing, sales, research and development, product development, operations, law and finance. Each new product launch, including those resulting from this new product development process, carries risks, as well as the possibility of unexpected consequences, including:•our advertising, promotional and marketing strategies for our new products may be less effective than planned and may fail to effectively reach the targeted consumer base or engender the desired consumption;•product purchases by our consumers may not be as high as we anticipate;•we may experience out-of-stocks and/or product returns exceeding our expectations as a result of our new product launches or retailer space reconfigurations or our net revenues may be impacted by retailer inventory management or changes in retailer pricing or promotional strategies;•we may incur costs exceeding our expectations as a result of the continued development and launch of new products, including, for example, advertising, promotional and marketing expenses, sales return expenses or other costs related to launching new products;•we may experience a decrease in sales of certain of our existing products as a result of newly-launched products; and•our product pricing strategies for new product launches may not be accepted by our retail customers or their consumers, which may result in our sales being less than anticipated.The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or the unauthorized diversion by third parties of our products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which may be inferior or pose safety risks. Consumers could confuse our products with these counterfeit products, which could cause them to refrain from purchasing our brands in the future and in turn could adversely affect our business. While many fragrance brands are distributed in either the prestige or mass market, over the past several years “prestige” brands have become increasingly available in other outlets through unauthorized means. The presence of counterfeit versions of our products in the market and of prestige products in mass distribution channels could also dilute the value of our brands or otherwise have a negative impact on our reputation and business.We believe our trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. While we devote significant resources to the registration and protection of our intellectual property and the protection of our brand image and are aggressive in pursuing entities involved in the trafficking and sale of counterfeit products and the unauthorized diversion of our products, we have not been able to prevent, and may in the future be unable to prevent, the imitation and counterfeiting of our products, the infringement of our trademarks or the unauthorized diversion of our products. In recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, including fragrances, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers, as well as on the internet. There can be no assurance that counterfeiting of our products and the unauthorized diversion of our prestige products into mass distribution channels will not have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could affect our business or financial results.We are subject to various foreign, federal, provincial, state, municipal and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to or imposing liability with respect to, among other things, the use, storage, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes as well as the emission and discharge of such into the ground, air or water at our facilities or off-site, and the registration and evaluation of chemicals. Certain environmental laws and regulations also may impose liability for the costs of cleaning up contamination, without regard to fault, on current or previous owners or operators of real property and any person who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person. Third parties may also make claims for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous substances from these or other sites in the future.Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent and, as a result, environmental liabilities, costs or expenditures could adversely affect our financial results or results of operations.20We are involved in litigation matters that are expensive and time consuming, and, if resolved adversely, could harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.We are involved in lawsuits in the ordinary course of our business.  Any litigation to which we are a party may result in an onerous or unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal or in payments of substantial monetary damages or fines, or we may decide to settle lawsuits on similarly unfavorable terms, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, or results of operations.Our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase stock price volatility.Any repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program initially announced on February 14, 2014 could affect our stock price and increase volatility. The existence of a stock repurchase program could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, we are permitted to and could discontinue our stock repurchase program at any time and any such discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. See “—We could be adversely affected by significant restrictions following the Transactions in order to avoid tax-related liabilities.”We are controlled by JAB Cosmetics, B.V. (“JABC”), Lucresca SE (“Lucresca”), and Agnaten SE (“Agnaten”). As a result of their control of us, they have the ability to prevent or cause a change in control or approve, prevent or influence certain actions by us.We are controlled by JABC. Lucresca and Agnaten indirectly share voting and investment control over the shares held by JABC. As of August 15, 2016, JABC holds 100% of our outstanding Class B Common Stock, 9.8% of our Class A Common Stock and 97.5% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Each share of our Class B common stock has ten votes per share, and our Class A Common Stock has one vote per share. As a result, JABC, Lucresca and Agnaten have the ability to exercise control over decisions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the Company or its assets. JABC, Lucresca and Agnaten have the ability to make these decisions regardless of whether others believe that such change or transaction is in our best interests. So long as JABC or affiliates of JABC continue to beneficially own a sufficient number of shares of Class B Common Stock, even if they own significantly less than 50% of the shares of our outstanding common stock, they will continue to be able to effectively control stockholder decisions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of the Company, could deprive stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A Common Stock as part of a sale of the Company and may negatively affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Also, JABC and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete indirectly with us. JABC or its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, are relying on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that are designed to provide protection to stockholders of companies that are not “controlled companies”.JABC, Lucresca and Agnaten collectively own more than 50% of the total voting power of our common shares and, as a result, we are a “controlled company” under the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we are exempt under the NYSE standards from the obligation to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements:•that a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors;•that we have a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and•that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities.While our Board in fact has a majority of independent directors, our Remuneration and Nomination Committee does not consist solely of independent directors. As a result of our use of the “controlled company” exemptions, investors will not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.Risks Relating to the TransactionsIf the Distribution does not qualify as a tax-free transaction under sections 355 or 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code or the Merger does not qualify as a tax-free “reorganization” under section 368(a) of the Code, including as a result of actions taken in connection with the Distribution or the Merger or as a result of subsequent acquisitions of us, P&G or Galleria Company 21common stock, then P&G and its shareholders may incur substantial U.S. federal income tax liability, and we may have substantial indemnification obligations to P&G under the Tax Matters Agreement.The completion of the distribution by P&G of its shares of Galleria Co. (“Galleria Company”) common stock to P&G shareholders (the “Distribution”) is conditioned upon P&G’s receipt of a written opinion from Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, special tax counsel to P&G, to the effect that the (i) Galleria Transfer (as defined below), taken together with the Distribution, should qualify as a tax-free reorganization pursuant to section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), (ii) Distribution, as such, should qualify as a distribution to P&G shareholders pursuant to section 355 of the Code, and (iii) Merger (as defined below) should not cause section 355(e) of the Code to apply to the Distribution. In addition, the consummation of the Merger is conditioned on the receipt by P&G of a tax opinion from Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, special tax counsel to P&G, and by us of a tax opinion from McDermott Will & Emery LLP, our special tax counsel, in each case, to the effect that the Merger will qualify for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the Code. The opinions will be based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters and certain covenants made by us, P&G, Galleria Company and  Green Acquisition Sub Inc. (“Merger Sub”) which, if incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by special tax counsel in their opinions. None of us, P&G, Galleria Company or Merger Sub is aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations to be relied upon in the above-described tax opinions to be untrue or incomplete in any material respect or that would preclude any of us, P&G, Galleria Company or Merger Sub from complying with all applicable covenants. None of us, P&G, Galleria Company or Merger Sub intends to waive these conditions. Any change in currently applicable law, which may be retroactive, or the failure of any representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete or any applicable covenant to be satisfied in all material respects, could adversely affect the conclusions reached by counsel. Furthermore, it should be noted that there is a lack of binding administrative and judicial authority addressing the qualification under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code of transactions substantially similar to the Distribution and the Merger, the opinions will not be binding on the IRS or a court, and the IRS or a court may not agree with the opinions. As a result, while it is impossible to determine the likelihood that the IRS or a court could disagree with the conclusions of the above-described opinions, the IRS could assert, and a court could determine, that the Distribution and Merger should be treated as taxable transactions.  As used herein, “Galleria Transfer” means the contribution of certain specified assets related to P&G Beauty Brands by P&G to Galleria Company in exchange for Galleria Company common stock, any distribution to P&G of a portion of the amount calculated pursuant to the Transaction Agreement for the recapitalization of Galleria Company and the assumption of certain liabilities related to P&G Beauty Brands, in each case in accordance with the Transaction Agreement.If, notwithstanding the receipt of the above-described opinions, the Distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction, each P&G shareholder who receives shares of Galleria Company common stock in the Distribution would generally be treated as recognizing taxable gain equal to the difference between the fair market value of the shares of Galleria Company common stock received by the shareholder and its tax basis in the shares of P&G common stock exchanged therefor and/or, if the exchange offer is completed but is undersubscribed and P&G distributes shares of Galleria Company common stock as a pro rata dividend, receiving a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of the shares of Galleria Company common stock received by the shareholder in such pro rata distribution. Additionally, in such case, P&G would generally recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the assets transferred to Galleria Company plus liabilities assumed by Galleria Company over P&G’s tax basis in those assets, and this would likely produce substantial income tax adjustments to P&G.Even if the Galleria Transfer and the Distribution, taken together, were otherwise to qualify as a tax-free transaction under section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and the Distribution were otherwise to qualify as a distribution to P&G shareholders pursuant to section 355 of the Code, the Distribution would become taxable to P&G (but not P&G shareholders) pursuant to section 355(e) of the Code if a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) of either P&G or Galleria Company was acquired (including, in the latter case, through the acquisition of our stock in or after the Merger), directly or indirectly, by certain persons as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of shares of our common stock, P&G common stock or Galleria Company common stock within the period beginning two years before the Distribution and ending two years after the Distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, P&G or Galleria Company may be able to rebut that presumption. While the Merger will be treated as part of such a plan for purposes of the test, standing alone, it should not cause the Distribution to be taxable to P&G under section 355(e) of the Code because P&G shareholders are expected to hold at least 54%, and in all events will hold more than 52%, of our outstanding common stock immediately following the Merger. However, if the IRS were to determine that other acquisitions of our shares of stock, P&G common stock or Galleria Company common stock, either before or after the Distribution, were part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Distribution, that determination could result in the recognition of a taxable gain by P&G. While P&G generally would recognize gain as if it had sold the shares of Galleria Company common stock distributed to P&G shareholders in the Distribution for an amount equal to the fair market value of such stock, P&G has agreed under the Tax Matters Agreement among us, P&G, Galleria Company and Merger Sub to make a protective election under section 336(e) of the Code with respect to the Distribution which generally causes a deemed sale of Galleria Company’s assets upon a taxable Distribution. 22In such case, to the extent that P&G is responsible for the resulting transaction taxes, we generally would be required to make periodic payments to P&G equal to the tax savings arising from a “step up” in the tax basis of Galleria Company’s assets as a result of the protective election under section 336(e) of the Code taking effect.Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we and each of our consolidated subsidiaries, including Galleria Company after the consummation of the Merger (the “Coty Group”), would be required to indemnify P&G against tax-related losses (e.g., increased taxes, penalties and interest required to be paid by P&G) if the Distribution were taxable to P&G as a result of the acquisition of a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in us as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Distribution, except where such acquisition would not have been taxable but for P&G’s breach of certain provisions described in the Tax Matters Agreement. In addition, the Coty Group would be required to indemnify P&G for any tax liabilities resulting from the failure of the Merger to qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the Code or the failure of the Distribution to qualify as a tax-free reorganization under sections 355 and 368(a) of the Code (including, in each case, failure to so qualify under a similar provision of state or local law) to the extent that such failure is attributable to a breach of certain representations and warranties by us or certain actions or omissions of the Coty Group. Tax-related losses attributable both to actions or omissions by the Coty Group, on the one hand, and certain actions or omissions by P&G, on the other hand, would be shared according to the relative fault of us and P&G. If the Coty Group is required to indemnify P&G in the event of a taxable Distribution, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on us, including with respect to our financial condition and results of operations. Except as described above, P&G would not be entitled to indemnification under the Tax Matters Agreement with respect to any taxable gain recognized in the Distribution. To the extent that we have any liability for any taxes of P&G, Galleria Company or any of their affiliates with respect to the Transactions that do not result from actions or omissions for which the Coty Group is liable as described above, P&G must indemnify us for such tax-related losses.We could be adversely affected by significant restrictions following the Transactions in order to avoid tax-related liabilities.The Tax Matters Agreement among us, P&G, Galleria Company and Merger Sub will require that we and Galleria Company, for a two-year period following the closing of the Merger, generally avoid taking certain actions. These limitations are designed to restrict actions that might cause the Distribution to be treated under section 355(e) of the Code as part of a plan under which a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in us is acquired or that could otherwise cause the Distribution, Merger and/or certain related transactions to become taxable to P&G. Unless we deliver an unqualified opinion of tax counsel reasonably acceptable to P&G, confirming that a proposed action would not cause certain of the transactions contemplated under the Transaction Agreement to become taxable, we and Galleria Company are each generally prohibited or restricted during the two-year period following the closing of the Merger from:•subject to specified exceptions, issuing stock (or stock equivalents) or recapitalizing, repurchasing, redeeming or otherwise participating in acquisitions of its stock;•amending its certificate of incorporation or other organizational documents to affect the voting rights of its stock;•merging or consolidating with another entity, or liquidating or partially liquidating, except for any merger, consolidation, liquidation or partial liquidation that is disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes;•discontinuing, selling, transferring or ceasing to maintain the Galleria Company active business under section 355(b) of the Code;•taking any action that permits a proposed acquisition of our stock or Galleria Company stock to occur by means of an agreement to which none of us, Galleria Company or their affiliates is a party (including by soliciting a tender offer for Galleria Company stock or our stock, participating in or otherwise supporting any unsolicited tender offer for such stock or redeeming rights under a shareholder rights plan with respect to such stock); and•engaging in other actions or transactions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Distribution, Merger and/or certain related transactions.Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we and our affiliates would be required to indemnify P&G against tax-related losses (e.g., increased taxes, penalties and interest required to be paid by P&G) if the Galleria Transfer, taken together with the Distribution, fails to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of the direct or indirect acquisition of a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in us as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Distribution, except where such acquisition would not have been taxable but for P&G’s breach of certain provisions described in the Tax Matters Agreement.Due to these restrictions and indemnification obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement, many strategic alternatives may be unavailable to us during the two-year period following the consummation of the Merger, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We may be limited during this period in our ability to pursue strategic transactions, equity or convertible debt financings or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business and that may otherwise be in our best interests. Also, the restrictions and our potential indemnity obligation to P&G might discourage, 23delay or prevent a change of control transaction during this two-year period that our stockholders may consider favorable to our ability to pursue strategic alternatives.Sales of shares of our common stock after the Transactions may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.The shares of our common stock issued in the Merger to holders of shares of Galleria Company common stock will generally be eligible for immediate resale. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market after the completion of the Transactions or even the perception that these sales could occur.It is expected that immediately after the completion of the Transactions, P&G shareholders or former P&G shareholders will hold approximately 54% of the fully diluted shares of our common stock and our existing stockholders will hold approximately 46% of the fully diluted shares of our common stock.Currently, P&G shareholders include index funds that have performance tied to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the Dow Jones Industrial Average or other stock indices, and institutional investors subject to various investing guidelines. Because we may not be included in these indices following completion of the Transactions or may not meet the investing guidelines of some of these institutional investors, these index funds and institutional investors may decide not to participate in the exchange offer conducted by P&G to exchange shares of Galleria Company owned by P&G for shares of P&G common stock, or, if the exchange offer is not fully subscribed, may decide to or may be required to sell the shares of our common stock that they receive in any subsequent pro rata distribution of any remaining shares following completion of an exchange offer. Alternatively, the index funds and institutional investors may participate in the exchange offer and may decide to or may be required to sell the shares of our common stock that they receive in the Merger. In addition, the investment fiduciaries of P&G’s defined contribution plans may decide to sell any of our common stock that the trusts receive in the Transactions, or not participate in the exchange offer, in response to fiduciary obligations under applicable law. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that it deems appropriate.The calculation of the merger consideration will not be adjusted if there is a change in the value of P&G Beauty Brands or its assets or our value before the Merger is completed.The calculation of the number of shares of our common stock to be distributed in the Merger will not be adjusted if there is a change in the value of P&G Beauty Brands or its assets or our value prior to the consummation of the Merger. While we will not be required to consummate the Merger if there has been any “material adverse effect” on P&G Beauty Brands, we will not be permitted to terminate the Transaction Agreement because of the occurrence of events that do not fall within this definition, including changes in the market price of our common stock or changes in the value of P&G Beauty Brands that do not otherwise constitute a material adverse effect on P&G Beauty Brands.The Transactions may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all.The completion of the Transactions is subject to numerous conditions, including (1) the completion of the transfer by P&G and its subsidiaries of certain specified assets and liabilities related to P&G Beauty Brands (“Galleria”) to Galleria Company (the “Separation”) and Distribution, (2) the satisfaction of the conditions to P&G’s obligation to complete the exchange offer, (3) the conversion of all outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock, (4) the receipt of written tax opinions from special tax counsel to P&G and our special tax counsel, and (5) other customary conditions.  There is no assurance that the Transactions will be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all. We and P&G  have expended and will continue to expend significant management time and resources and have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses due to legal, advisory and financial services fees related to the Transactions. These expenses must be paid regardless of whether the Transactions are completed.Governmental agencies may not approve the Merger or the related transactions necessary to consummate the Merger or may impose conditions to the approval of such transactions or require changes to the terms of such transactions. Any such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the Transactions, imposing costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Transactions or otherwise reducing the anticipated benefits of the Transactions.Failure to complete the Transactions could materially and adversely impact the market price of our Class A Common Stock as well as our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.If the Transactions are not completed for any reason, the price of our common stock may decline significantly. In addition, we are subject to additional risks, including, among others:•substantial costs related to the Transactions, such as advisory, legal, accounting, integration and other professional fees and regulatory filing and financial printing fees, which must be paid regardless of whether the Transactions are completed; and24•potential disruption of our business and distraction of our workforce and management team.We expect to incur significant costs associated with the Transactions that could affect our period-to-period operating results following the completion of the Transactions.At the time of announcement of the Transactions in July 2015, we anticipated that we would incur charges of an aggregate of approximately $500 million and capital expenditures of approximately $400 million as a result of costs associated with the Transactions.  We currently anticipate that we will incur a total of approximately $1.2 billion of operating expenses and capital expenditures of approximately $500 million. Some of the factors affecting the costs associated with the Transactions include the timing of the completion of the Transactions, the resources required in integrating Galleria with our existing businesses and the length of time during which transition services are provided to us by P&G. The amount and timing of this charge could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and period-to-period operating results, which could result in a reduction in the market price of shares of our common stock.Any delay in completing the Transactions may reduce or eliminate the benefits that we expect to achieve.The Transactions are subject to a number of conditions beyond our and P&G’s control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the Transactions. We and P&G cannot predict whether and when these conditions will be satisfied. Any delay in completing the Transactions could cause the combined company not to realize some or all of the synergies that we and P&G expect to achieve if the Transactions are successfully completed within the expected time frame.The integration of Galleria with us may not be successful or anticipated benefits from the Transactions may not be realized.After completion of the Transactions, we will have significantly more sales, assets and employees than we did prior to the Transactions. The integration process will require us to expand the scope of our operations and financial, accounting and control systems. Our management will be required to devote a substantial amount of time and attention to the process of integrating Galleria with our business operations. The integration process is often difficult and management involvement is inherent in that process. These difficulties include:•integrating the operations of Galleria while carrying on the ongoing operations of our business;•managing a significantly larger company than before the Transactions;•coordinating businesses located in new geographic regions, including significantly increased international operations;•operating a hair color business, which is a new category in the beauty industry for us;•operating nine additional large manufacturing facilities in the United States, Germany, Thailand, Mexico, Russia and the U.K.;•maintaining and protecting the competitive advantages of Galleria, including the trade secrets, know-how and intellectual property related to its production processes;•integrating business cultures and processes;•retaining personnel associated with Galleria;•implementing a new system for the distribution and sale of Galleria products to replace the P&G direct sales force, and integrating that system with our current sales and distribution organization;•implementing uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and minimizing costs associated with such matters; and•integrating information, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems.We may not be able to successfully or cost-effectively integrate Galleria. While under the Transition Services Agreement, P&G will provide limited transition services to us while Galleria is being integrated into Coty, the term of the Transition Services Agreement will be for a limited period of time following the completion of the Transactions, which may not be sufficiently long for purposes of the integration. The process of integrating Galleria into our operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of Galleria’s or our businesses. If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.As a combined company, we may not achieve some or any of the synergies that we expect to achieve if the Transactions are successfully completed. Even if we are able to combine the two business operations, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits, including increased sales volume, that we currently expect to result from the Transactions, or to realize those benefits within the time frame that is currently expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Transactions may be offset by unanticipated costs or integration 25delays. In addition, the benefits of the Transactions may be offset by increased operating costs relating to changes in commodity or energy prices, increased competition or other risks and uncertainties. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from the Transactions, our results of operations may be adversely affected.If the operating results for Galleria following the Transactions are below our expectations, we may not achieve the increases in revenues and net earnings that we expect as a result of the Transactions.We have projected that we will derive a significant portion of our revenues and net earnings from the operations of Galleria after the Transactions. Therefore, any negative impact on those business operations could harm our operating results. Some of the significant factors that could harm the operations of Galleria, and therefore harm our future combined operating results after the Transactions, include:•increases in raw materials, energy and packaging costs for Galleria, including the cost of essential oils, alcohol and specialty chemicals;•more intense competitive pressure from existing or new companies;•difficulties meeting demand for Galleria products;•fluctuations in the exchange rates in the jurisdictions in which the combined company operates;•increases in promotional costs for Galleria; and•a decline in the markets served by Galleria.The Transactions will expose us to risks inherent in the hair color business, and risks inherent in those geographies where Galleria currently operates.If consummated successfully, the Transactions would create one of the world’s largest beauty companies and would represent a significant transformation of our existing business. Upon completion of the Transactions, we would be subject to a variety of risks associated with the hair color business, in addition to those we already face in the fragrance, color cosmetics and skin and body care businesses. These risks include changes in consumer preferences, volatility in the prices of raw materials, consumer perceptions of the brands, competition in the retail market and other risks. In addition, we will be exposed to risks inherent in operating in geographies in which we have not operated in or has been less present in the past.We may be unable to manage our growth effectively, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Following the Transactions, we plan to invest in Galleria to grow and leverage our increased scale to benefit our entire beauty portfolio. Our growth strategy, including our strategy with respect to Galleria, may place a strain on our management team, information systems, labor, manufacturing and distribution capacity. P&G Beauty Brands has experienced in the past, and Galleria may experience in the future, manufacturing capacity constraints, particularly in periods where customer demand exceeds management’s expectations. We may determine that it is necessary to invest substantial capital in order to secure additional manufacturing and distribution capacity to accommodate the expected growth of our business. There may also be a delay between our decision to invest in our manufacturing and distribution capacity and the time when such capacity is available for use. If we do not make, or are unable to make, the necessary expenditures to accommodate our future growth, or if a significant amount of time passes between our decision to invest and the time in which such capacity is available for use, we may not be successful in executing our growth strategy. If we are unable to effectively address any future capacity constraints within our business, or otherwise manage our future growth, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.Changes in relationships between Galleria and its brand licensors, or failure to maintain those relationships, following the Transactions could have a material adverse effect on us.The rights to market and sell certain fine fragrance brands are derived from licenses from unaffiliated third parties and its business is dependent upon the continuation and renewal of those licenses on favorable terms. As of June 30, 2015, P&G Beauty Brands maintained 12 brand license agreements, which collectively accounted for 36% of its net sales in fiscal 2015. As of June 30, 2016, we maintained 29 brand license agreements, which collectively accounted for 53% of our net revenues in fiscal 2016. In addition to our brand licenses, we also have other arrangements in place granting us rights to use trademarks and certain other intellectual property in products marketed under both our licensed and owned brands.  In fiscal 2016, our top six licensed brands collectively accounted for 39% of our net revenues, and each represented between 3% and 16% of net revenues. With the exception of the Dolce & Gabbana and Christina Aguilera fragrance licenses, we and P&G have obtained the consent of brand licensors, to the extent required in connection with the Transactions, for the transfer of the applicable brand licenses from P&G Beauty Brands to us in the Transactions. Notwithstanding, these brand licensors may reduce the scope of their relationship with Galleria in anticipation of the Transactions or with us following completion of the Transactions. Any such reduction, or our inability to renew a brand license agreement upon favorable terms or otherwise, could have a 26material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations following the Transactions and could limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Transactions.We rely on brand licensors to manage and maintain their brands, and there is no guarantee that the licensors will maintain their celebrity status or positive association among the consumer public.We, including Galleria following completion of the Transactions, rely on our brand licensors to manage and maintain their brands. Many of these brand licenses are with celebrities whose public personae we believe are in line with our current business strategy. Since we do not maintain control over such celebrities’ brand and image, however, they are subject to change at any time without notice, and there can be no assurance that these celebrity licensors will maintain the appropriate celebrity status or positive association among the consumer public to maintain sales of products bearing their names and likeness at the projected sales levels. As a result of the Transactions, such brand licensors may wish to renegotiate or terminate their agreements given management change. Similarly, since we are not responsible for the brand or image of our designer licensors, sales of related products or projected sales of related products could suffer if the designer suffers a general decline in the popularity of its brands due to mismanagement, changes in fashion or consumer preferences, or other factors beyond our control.Our success is also partially dependent on the reputation of our respective brand licensors and the goodwill associated with their intellectual property. These licensors’ reputation or goodwill may be harmed due to factors outside our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the event that any of these licensors were to enter bankruptcy proceedings, we could lose our rights to use the intellectual property that the applicable licensors license us to use.Our brand licenses may be terminated if specified conditions are not met.Our and Galleria’s existing brand licenses run for varying periods with varying renewal options and may be terminated if certain conditions, such as royalty payments, are not met. These brand licenses impose various obligations on us and Galleria which we believe are common to many licensing relationships in the beauty industry. These obligations include:•paying annual royalties on net sales of the licensed products;•maintaining the quality of the licensed products and the image of applicable trademarks;•permitting the licensor’s involvement in and, in some cases, approval of advertising, packaging and marketing plans relating to the licensed products;•maintaining minimum royalty payments and/or minimum sales levels for the licensed products;•actively promoting the sales of the licensed products;•spending a certain amount of net sales on marketing and advertising for the licensed products;•maintaining the integrity of the specified distribution channel for the licensed products;•expanding the sales of the licensed products and/or the markets in which they are sold;•agreeing not to enter into licensing arrangements with competitors of certain of our licensors;•indemnifying the licensor in the event of product liability or other claims related to our products;•limiting assignment and sub-licensing to third parties without the licensor’s consent; and•in some cases, requiring notice to, or approval by, the licensor of certain changes in control as a condition to continuation of the license.If, following the Transactions, we breach any of these obligations or any other obligations set forth in any of these brand license agreements, our rights under the applicable brand license agreements could be terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We expect to guarantee a significant amount of debt as a result of the Transactions.At the completion of the Transactions, to the extent the requirements of the Transaction Agreement are satisfied, we will guarantee Galleria Company’s obligations under Galleria Company’s $4.5 billion senior secured credit facilities. Galleria Company’s obligations are contractually agreed to be $2.9 billion, but are subject to specified adjustments, which may result in the incurred amount being significantly higher or lower. The terms of this debt, as well as the Senior Secured Facilities, will permit us to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness, including secured debt.Our ability to make scheduled payments under, or to refinance, our indebtedness depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to specified financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operations sufficient to permit us to pay 27the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations and these actions may not be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Since our debt agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets, we may not be able to consummate such dispositions, and this could result in our inability to meet our debt service obligations.In addition, this indebtedness could have other important consequences, including:• increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates to the extent that our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates;•making it more difficult to satisfy obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing the indebtedness;•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from pursuing.If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase.Our debt facilities following completion of the Transactions will require us to continue to comply with specified financial covenants that may restrict our current and future operations and limit our flexibility and ability to respond to changes or take certain actions.We remain dependent upon others for our financing needs, and our debt agreements currently contain, and will contain following the closing of the Transactions, restrictive covenants. The Coty Credit Agreement, which governs the Senior Secured Facilities contains, and following the Transactions the credit agreement governing Galleria Company’s $4.5 billion senior secured credit facilities  will contain, covenants requiring us to maintain specific financial ratios and contain certain restrictions on us with respect to guarantees, liens, sales of certain assets, consolidations and mergers, affiliate transactions, indebtedness, dividends and other distributions and changes of control. There is a risk that these covenants could constrain execution of our business strategy and growth plans following the Transactions, including acquisitions. Should we decide to pursue an acquisition that requires financing that would violate our debt covenants, refusal of our lenders to permit waivers or amendments to our covenants could delay or prevent consummation of our plans. The Senior Secured Facilities will expire in 2022 and Galleria Company’s $4.5 billion senior secured credit facilities will expire seven years after the initial funding, which must occur shortly following the closing of the Transactions. There is no assurance that alternative financing or financing on as favorable terms will be found when these facilities expire.Following the completion of the Transactions, JABC will remain our largest stockholder, owning approximately 36% of the fully diluted shares of Class A Common Stock, and will have the ability to exercise significant influence over decisions requiring stockholder approval. We are currently controlled by JABC, Lucresca and Agnaten. Lucresca and Agnaten indirectly share voting and investment control over the shares of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock held by JABC. Following the completion of the Transactions, JABC will remain our largest stockholder, owning approximately 36% of the fully diluted shares of Class A Common Stock. As a result, JABC, Lucresca and Agnaten will continue to have the ability to exercise significant influence over decisions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the Company or our assets. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of us and may negatively affect the market price of Class A Common Stock. Also, JABC and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete indirectly with us. JABC or its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.Item 1B