Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may impair the company’s business operations and financial condition. The company operates in a highly competitive industryThe company operates in the highly competitive food industry and experiences international competition in all of its principal products. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion, convenience and service. A number of the company's primary competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources. A strong competitive response from one or more of these competitors to the company's marketplace efforts, or a consumer shift towards private label offerings, could result in the company reducing pricing, increasing marketing or other expenditures, and/or losing market share.The company's results are dependent on successful marketplace initiatives and acceptance by consumers of the company's products, including new or improved product and packaging introductionsThe company's results are dependent on successful marketplace initiatives and acceptance by consumers of the company's products. The company's new or improved product and packaging introductions, along with its other marketplace initiatives, are designed to capitalize on customer or consumer trends. In order to remain successful, the company must anticipate and react to these trends and develop new or improved products or packaging to address them. While the company devotes significant resources to meeting this goal, the company may not be successful in developing new or improved products or packaging, or its new or improved products or packaging may not be accepted by customers or consumers.The company's results may be adversely affected by the failure to execute acquisitions and divestitures successfullyThe company's ability to meet its objectives with respect to the acquisition of new businesses or the divestiture of existing businesses may depend in part on its ability to identify suitable buyers and sellers, negotiate favorable financial terms and other contractual terms, and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. Potential risks of acquisitions also include the inability to integrate acquired businesses efficiently into the company's existing operations, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, potential loss of key employees and/or customers of acquired businesses, potential assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, potential impairment charges if purchase assumptions are not achieved or market conditions decline, and the risks inherent in entering markets or lines of business with which the company has limited or no prior experience.  Acquisitions outside the U.S. may present unique challenges and increase the company's exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and risks associated with local regulatory regimes. For divestitures, potential risks may also include the inability to separate divested businesses or business units from the company effectively and efficiently and to reduce or eliminate associated overhead costs. The company's business or financial results may be negatively affected if acquisitions or divestitures are not successfully implemented or completed.  Disruption to the company's supply chain could adversely affect its businessThe company's ability to manufacture and/or sell its products may be impaired by damage or disruption to its manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or to the capabilities of its suppliers or contract manufacturers, as a result of adverse weather conditions (such as drought, temperature extremes or floods), natural disasters, fire, terrorism, pandemics, strikes or other events. Production of carrots by the company's Bolthouse Farms business may be also be adversely affected by water scarcity, crop disease and crop pests. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, may adversely affect the company's business or financial results, particularly in circumstances where a product is sourced from a single supplier or location. Disputes with significant suppliers or contract manufacturers, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, may also adversely affect the company's ability to manufacture and/or sell its products, as well as its business or financial results.The company's non-U.S. operations pose additional risks to the company's businessIn 2013, approximately 23% of the company's consolidated net sales from continuing operations were generated outside of the U.S. Sales outside the U.S. are expected to continue to represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales. The company's business or financial performance may be adversely affected due to the risks of doing business in markets outside of the U.S., including but not limited to the following:  •political instability;6 •unfavorable changes in tariffs or export and import restrictions;•nationalization of operations; •failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •the adverse impact of foreign tax treaties and policies;•civil disobedience, armed hostilities and terrorist acts; and •restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from countries outside of the United States, including potentially negative tax consequences.In addition, the company holds assets and incurs liabilities, generates revenue, and pays expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar. The company's consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, and the company must translate its assets, liabilities, sales and expenses into U.S. dollars for external reporting purposes. As a result, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates or currency exchange controls may materially and negatively affect the value of these items in the company's consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their local currency.The company faces risks related to recession, financial and credit market disruptions and other economic conditionsCustomer and consumer demand for the company's products may be impacted by weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other negative economic factors in the U.S. or other nations. Similarly, disruptions in financial and/or credit markets may impact the company's ability to manage normal commercial relationships with its customers, suppliers and creditors. In addition, changes in tax or interest rates in the U.S. or other nations, whether due to recession, financial and credit market disruptions or other reasons, could impact the company.Increased regulation could adversely affect the company's business or financial resultsThe manufacture and marketing of food products is extensively regulated. The primary areas of regulation include the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality and safety of the company's food products, as well as the health and safety of the company's employees and the protection of the environment. In the U.S., the company is subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. The company is also regulated by similar agencies outside the U.S. and by voluntary organizations, such as the National Advertising Division and the Children's Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative of the Council of Better Business Bureaus. Changes in regulatory requirements, or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance cost, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect the company's business or financial results.The company's results may be adversely impacted by increases in the price of raw and packaging materialsThe raw and packaging materials used in the company's business include tomato paste, grains, beef, poultry, vegetables, steel, glass, paper and resin. Many of these materials are subject to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including product scarcity, demand for raw materials, commodity market speculation, energy costs, currency fluctuations, weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change), import and export requirements and changes in government-sponsored agricultural programs. To the extent any of these factors result in an increase in raw and packaging material prices, the company may not be able to offset such increases through productivity or price increases or through its commodity hedging activity.Price increases may not be sufficient to cover increased costs, or may result in declines in sales volume due to pricing elasticity in the marketplaceThe company intends to pass along to customers some or all cost increases in raw and packaging materials and other inputs through increases in the selling prices of some of its products. Higher product prices may result in reductions in sales volume. To the extent the price increases are not sufficient to offset increased raw and packaging materials and other input costs, and/or if they result in significant decreases in sales volume, the company's business results and financial condition may be adversely affected.The company may be adversely impacted by a changing customer landscape and the increased significance of some of its customersIn recent years, alternative retail grocery channels, such as dollar stores, drug stores and club stores, have increased their market share. This trend towards alternative channels is expected to continue in the future. In addition, consolidations in the traditional retail grocery trade have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength who may seek lower prices or increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers. These customers may use more of their 7 shelf space for their private label products. If the company is unable to use its scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these customer dynamics, the company's business or financial results could be negatively impacted. Also, during 2013, the company's five largest customers accounted for approximately 36% of the company's consolidated net sales, with the largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounting for approximately 19% of the company's consolidated net sales. The disruption of sales to any of these customers, or to any of the company's other large customers, for an extended period of time could adversely affect the company's business or financial results. The company may be adversely impacted by increased liabilities and costs related to its defined benefit pension plansThe company sponsors a number of defined benefit pension plans for employees in the U.S. and various non-U.S. locations. The major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in regulatory requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the funded status of the company's defined benefit pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status as recorded on the balance sheet. A significant increase in the company's obligations or future funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the company.The company may be adversely impacted by inadequacies in, or security breaches of, its information technology systemsEach year the company engages in several billion dollars of transactions with its customers and vendors. Because the amount of dollars involved is so significant, the company's information technology resources (some of which are managed by third parties) must provide connections among its marketing, sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, and accounting functions. If the company does not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure and to maintain the related computerized and manual control processes, the company's business or financial results could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the company's information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches (including the theft of customer, consumer or other confidential data), cyber-based attacks or other system failures. If the company is unable to prevent such failures, the company's business or financial results could be negatively impacted.The company may not properly execute, or realize anticipated cost savings or benefits from, its ongoing supply chain, information technology or other initiativesThe company's success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, its ongoing supply chain, information technology and other initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to make the company more efficient, which is necessary in the company's highly competitive industry. These initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in an interruption to the company's sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service or accounting functions.If the company's food products become adulterated or are mislabeled, the company might need to recall those items, and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injuredThe company may need to recall some of its products if they become adulterated or if they are mislabeled. The company may also be liable if the consumption of any of its products causes injury. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. The company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to the company's reputation and a loss of consumer confidence in the company's products. In addition, the company's results could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the company's products, ingredients or packaging, even in the absence of a recall or a product liability case.  The company's results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of its brandsThe company has a number of iconic brands with significant value. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of the company's business. Brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. Success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on the company's ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that the company has acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about the company's products and/or ingredients (whether or not valid), the company's failure to maintain the quality of its products, the failure of the company's products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. The growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about the company, its brands or products on social or digital media could seriously damage the company's brands and reputation.  If the company does not maintain the favorable perception of its brands, the company's results could be negatively impacted.Item 1B