ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and
uncertainties could materially adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition and
results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or
that the company currently deems immaterial also may impair the company’s business operations and
financial condition.


The company operates in a highly competitive industry The company operates in the highly
competitive food industry and experiences worldwide competition in all of its principal products. A
number of the company’s primary competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other
resources. A strong competitive response from one or more of these competitors to the company’s
marketplace efforts could result in the company reducing pricing, increasing marketing or other
expenditures, or losing market share. These changes may have a material adverse effect on the
business and financial results of the company.


The company’s long-term results are dependent on successful marketplace initiatives The company’s
long-term results are dependent on successful marketplace initiatives. The company’s product
introductions and product improvements, along with its other marketplace initiatives, are designed
to capitalize on new customer or consumer trends. In order to remain successful, the company must
anticipate and react to these new trends and develop new products or processes to address them.
While the company devotes significant resources to meeting this goal, the company may not be
successful in developing new products or processes, or its new products or processes may not be
accepted by customers or consumers. These results could have a material adverse effect on the
business and financial results of the company.


The company may not properly execute, or realize anticipated cost savings or benefits from, its
ongoing supply chain, information technology or other initiatives The company’s success is partly
dependent upon properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, its ongoing
supply chain, information technology and other initiatives. These initiatives are primarily
designed to make the company more efficient in the manufacture and distribution of its products,
which is necessary in the company’s highly competitive industry. These initiatives are often
complex, and a failure to implement
them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in an
interruption to the company’s sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service or accounting
functions. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial
results of the company.







Table of Contents

4

The company may be adversely impacted by the increased significance of some of its customers The
disruption of supply to any of the company’s large customers, such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., for
an extended period of time could adversely affect the company’s business or financial results. In
addition, the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate, and mass market retailers continue to
become larger. In such an environment, a large retail customer may attempt to increase its
profitability by lowering the prices of its suppliers or increasing promotional programs funded by
its suppliers. If the company is unable to use its scale, marketing expertise, product innovation
and category leadership positions to respond to these customer demands, the company’s business or
financial results could be negatively impacted.


The company’s long-term results may be adversely impacted by increases in the price of raw and
packaging materials The raw and packaging materials used in the company’s business include tomato
paste, beef, poultry, vegetables, metal containers, glass, paper, resin and energy. Many of these
materials are subject to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including product scarcity,
demand for raw materials, commodity market speculation, currency fluctuations, weather conditions,
import and export requirements and changes in government-sponsored agricultural programs. To the
extent any of these factors result in an unforeseen increase in raw and packaging material prices,
the company may not be able to offset such increases through productivity or price increases. In
such case, the company’s business or financial results could be negatively impacted.


The
company may be adversely impacted by inadequacies in, or failure of,
its information technology systems Each year the company engages in several billion dollars of transactions with
its customers and vendors. Because the amount of dollars involved is so significant, the company’s
information technology resources must provide connections among its marketing, sales,
manufacturing, logistics, customer service and accounting functions. If the company does not
allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and
sustain an appropriate technology
infrastructure and to maintain the related computerized and manual control processes, the company’s
business or financial results could be negatively impacted.


Disruption to the company’s supply chain could adversely affect its business Damage or disruption
to the company’s suppliers or to the company’s manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to
weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other reasons could impair the
company’s ability to manufacture and/or sell its products. Failure to take adequate steps to
mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if
they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect
the company’s business or financial results.




The company may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions and
divestitures From time to time, the company undertakes acquisitions or divestitures. The success of
any such acquisition or divestiture depends, in part, upon the company’s ability to identify
suitable buyers or sellers, negotiate favorable contractual terms and, in many cases, obtain
governmental approval. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the
acquired business into the company’s existing operations. In cases where acquisitions or
divestitures are not successfully implemented or completed, the company’s business or financial
results could be negatively impacted.


The company’s long-term results may be impacted negatively by political and/or economic conditions
in the United States or other nations The company is a global manufacturer and marketer of
high-quality, branded convenience food products. Because of its global reach, the company’s
performance may be impacted negatively by political and/or economic conditions in the United
States, as well as other nations. A change in any one or more of the following factors in the
United States, or in other nations, could impact the company: currency exchange rates, tax rates,
interest rates, legal or regulatory requirements, tariffs, export and import restrictions or equity
markets. The company may also be impacted by recession, political instability, civil disobedience,
armed hostilities, natural disasters and terrorist acts in the United States or throughout the
world. Any one of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial
results of the company.


If the company’s food products become adulterated or are mislabeled, the company might need to
recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured The company
may need to recall some of its products if they become adulterated or if they are mis-labeled. The
company may also be liable if the consumption of any of its products causes injury. A widespread
product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of
product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. The
company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. A
significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage
to the company’s reputation and a loss of consumer confidence in the company’s food products, which
could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company.






ITEM 1B