Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may impair the company’s business operations and financial condition. 5 The company operates in a highly competitive industryThe company operates in the highly competitive food industry and experiences international competition in all of its principal products. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion, convenience and service. A number of the company's primary competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources. A strong competitive response from one or more of these competitors to the company's marketplace efforts, or a consumer shift towards private label offerings, could result in the company reducing pricing, increasing marketing or other expenditures, and/or losing market share.The company's results are dependent on strengthening its established businesses while diversifying into higher-growth spaces The company's strategy is focused on strengthening its established businesses while diversifying its portfolio into higher-growth spaces. Its established simple meals, snacks and healthy beverages businesses are concentrated in slower-growing center-store categories in traditional mass and grocery channels. Factors that may impact the company's success in strengthening these businesses and/or diversifying its portfolio into higher-growth spaces include:  •the company's ability to identify and capitalize on higher-growth spaces;•the company's ability to identify and capitalize on customer or consumer trends, including those related to new or improved products or packaging;•the company's ability to design and implement effective retail execution plans;•the company's ability to design and implement effective advertising and marketing programs;•the company's ability to secure or maintain sufficient shelf space at retailers; and•changes in underlying growth rates of the categories in which the company competes. If the company is not successful in addressing theses factors, the company's strategy may not be successful and/or the company's business or financial results may be negatively impacted.  The company's results may be adversely affected by the failure to execute acquisitions and divestitures successfullyThe company's ability to meet its objectives with respect to the acquisition of new businesses or the divestiture of existing businesses may depend in part on its ability to identify suitable buyers and sellers, negotiate favorable financial terms and other contractual terms, and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. Potential risks of acquisitions also include:•the inability to integrate acquired businesses efficiently into the company's existing operations;•diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;•potential loss of key employees and/or customers of acquired businesses;•potential assumption of unknown liabilities;•the inability to implement promptly an effective control environment; •potential impairment charges if purchase assumptions are not achieved or market conditions decline; and •the risks inherent in entering markets or lines of business with which the company has limited or no prior experience.  Acquisitions outside the U.S. may present unique challenges and increase the company's exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and risks associated with local regulatory regimes. For divestitures, potential risks may also include the inability to separate divested businesses or business units from the company effectively and efficiently and to reduce or eliminate associated overhead costs. The company's business or financial results may be negatively affected if acquisitions or divestitures are not successfully implemented or completed.  Disruption to the company's supply chain could adversely affect its businessThe company's ability to manufacture and/or sell its products may be impaired by damage or disruption to its manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or to the capabilities of its suppliers or contract manufacturers, due to factors that are hard to predict or beyond the company's control, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, pandemics, strikes or other events. Production of the agricultural commodities used in the company's business may also be adversely affected by drought, water scarcity, temperature extremes, scarcity of suitable agricultural land, crop disease and/or  crop pests. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, may adversely affect the company's business or financial results, particularly in circumstances where a product is sourced from a single supplier or location. Disputes with significant suppliers or contract manufacturers, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, may also adversely affect the company's ability to manufacture and/or sell its products, as well as its business or financial results.6 The company's non-U.S. operations pose additional risks to the company's businessIn 2014, approximately 22% of the company's consolidated net sales from continuing operations were generated outside of the U.S. Sales outside the U.S. are expected to continue to represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales. The company's business or financial performance may be adversely affected due to the risks of doing business in markets outside of the U.S., including but not limited to the following:•unfavorable changes in tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or other export and import restrictions;•the difficulty and/or costs of complying with a wide variety of laws, treaties and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •the difficulty and/or costs of designing and implementing an effective control environment across diverse regions and employee bases;•the adverse impact of foreign tax treaties and policies;•political or economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, armed hostilities or terrorist acts; •the possible nationalization of operations; •the difficulty of enforcing remedies and protecting intellectual property in various jurisdictions; and •restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from countries outside of the U.S., including potentially negative tax consequences.In addition, the company holds assets and incurs liabilities, generates revenue, and pays expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar. The company's consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, and the company must translate its assets, liabilities, sales and expenses into U.S. dollars for external reporting purposes. As a result, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates or currency exchange controls may materially and negatively affect the value of these items in the company's consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their local currency.The company faces risks related to recession, financial and credit market disruptions and other economic conditionsCustomer and consumer demand for the company's products may be impacted by weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other negative economic factors in the U.S. or other nations. Similarly, disruptions in financial and/or credit markets may impact the company's ability to manage normal commercial relationships with its customers, suppliers and creditors. In addition, changes in tax or interest rates in the U.S. or other nations, whether due to recession, financial and credit market disruptions or other reasons, could impact the company.Increased regulation or regulatory-based claims could adversely affect the company's business or financial resultsThe manufacture and marketing of food products is extensively regulated. The primary areas of regulation include the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, marketing, advertising, labeling, quality and safety of the company's food products, as well as the health and safety of the company's employees and the protection of the environment. In the U.S., the company is subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. The company is also regulated by similar agencies outside the U.S. Changes in regulatory requirements (such as proposed labeling requirements), or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance cost, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect the company's business or financial results.  In addition, the marketing of food products has come under increased scrutiny in recent years, and the food industry has been subject to an increasing number of legal proceedings and claims relating to alleged false or deceptive marketing under federal, state and foreign laws or regulations. Legal proceedings or claims related to the company's marketing could damage the company's reputation and/or could adversely affect the company's business or financial results.  The company's results may be adversely impacted by increases in the price of raw and packaging materialsThe raw and packaging materials used in the company's business include tomato paste, grains, beef, poultry, vegetables, steel, glass, paper and resin. Many of these materials are subject to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including product scarcity, demand for raw materials, commodity market speculation, energy costs, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, import and export requirements and changes in government-sponsored agricultural programs.  To the extent any of these factors result in an increase in raw and packaging material prices, the company may not be able to offset such increases through productivity or price increases or through its commodity hedging activity.7 Adverse changes in the global climate or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect the company's business or operationsThe company's business or financial results could be adversely affected by changing global temperatures or weather patterns or by extreme or unusual weather conditions. Adverse changes in the global climate or extreme or unusual weather conditions could:•unfavorably impact the cost or availability of raw or packaging materials, especially if such events have a negative impact on agricultural productivity or on the supply of water;•disrupt the company's ability, or the ability of its suppliers or contract manufacturers, to manufacture or distribute the company's products;•disrupt the retail operations of the company's customers; or•unfavorably impact the demand for, or the consumer's ability to purchase, the company's products.In addition, there is growing concern that the release of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere may be impacting global temperatures and weather patterns and contributing to extreme or unusual weather conditions. This growing concern may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. Adoption of such additional regulation may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations that could adversely affect the company's business or financial results. Price increases may not be sufficient to cover increased costs, or may result in declines in sales volume due to pricing elasticity in the marketplaceThe company intends to pass along to customers some or all cost increases in raw and packaging materials and other inputs through increases in the selling prices of, or decreases in the packaging sizes of, some of its products. Higher product prices or smaller packaging sizes may result in reductions in sales volume. To the extent the price increases or packaging size decreases are not sufficient to offset increased raw and packaging materials and other input costs, and/or if they result in significant decreases in sales volume, the company's business results and financial condition may be adversely affected.The company may be adversely impacted by a changing customer landscape and the increased significance of some of its customersThe company's businesses are largely concentrated in the traditional retail grocery trade. In recent years, alternative retail grocery channels, such as dollar stores, drug stores, club stores and Internet-based retailers, have increased their market share. This trend towards alternative channels is expected to continue in the future. If the company is not successful in pursuing its strategy to expand sales in alternative retail grocery channels, its business or financial results may be adversely impacted. In addition, consolidations in the traditional retail grocery trade have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength who may seek lower prices or increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers. These customers may use more of their shelf space for their private label products. If the company is unable to use its scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these customer dynamics, the company's business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In 2014, the company's five largest customers accounted for approximately 35% of the company's consolidated net sales, with the largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounting for approximately 19% of the company's consolidated net sales. Disruption of sales to any of these customers, or to any of the company's other large customers, for an extended period of time could adversely affect the company's business or financial results. If the company's food products become adulterated or are mislabeled, the company might need to recall those items, and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injuredThe company may need to recall some of its products if they become adulterated or if they are mislabeled, and may also be liable if the consumption of any of its products causes injury to consumers. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. The company could also suffer losses from a significant adverse product liability judgment. A significant product recall or product liability claim could also result in adverse publicity, damage to the company's reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in the safety and/or quality of its products, ingredients or packaging. Such a loss of confidence could occur even in the absence of a recall or a major product liability claim.  8 The company may be adversely impacted by inadequacies in, or security breaches of, its information technology systemsThe company's information technology systems are critically important to the company's operations. The company relies on  its information technology systems (some of which are outsourced to third parties) to manage the data, communications and business processes for all of its functions, including its marketing, sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, accounting and administrative functions. If the company does not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, the company's business or financial results could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the company's information technology systems may be vulnerable to material security breaches (including the access to or acquisition of customer, consumer or other confidential data), cyber-based attacks or other material system failures. If the company is unable to prevent material failures, the company's operations may be impacted, and the company may suffer other negative consequences such as reputational damage, litigation, remediation costs and/or penalties under various data privacy laws and regulations.   The company's results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of its brandsThe company has a number of iconic brands with significant value. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of the company's business. Brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. Success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on the company's ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that the company has acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about the company's products, packaging and/or ingredients (whether or not valid), the company's failure to maintain the quality of its products, the failure of the company's products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. The growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about the company, its brands, products or packaging on social or digital media could seriously damage the company's brands and reputation.  If the company does not maintain the favorable perception of its brands, the company's results could be negatively impacted.The company may not properly execute, or realize anticipated cost savings or benefits from, its ongoing supply chain, information technology or other initiativesThe company's success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, its ongoing supply chain, information technology and other initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to make the company more efficient, which is necessary in the company's highly competitive industry. These initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in an interruption to the company's sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service or accounting functions.The company may be adversely impacted by increased liabilities and costs related to its defined benefit pension plansThe company sponsors a number of defined benefit pension plans for employees in the U.S. and various non-U.S. locations. The major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in regulatory requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the funded status of the company's defined benefit pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status as recorded on the balance sheet. A significant increase in the company's obligations or future funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the company.Item 1B