Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industryWe operate in the highly competitive food industry and experience international competition in all of our principal products. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion, convenience and service. A number of our primary competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources. A strong competitive response from one or more of these competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a consumer shift towards private label offerings, could result in us reducing pricing, increasing marketing or other expenditures, and/or losing market share.Our results are dependent on strengthening our core businesses while diversifying into faster-growing spaces Our strategy is focused on strengthening our core businesses while diversifying our portfolio into faster-growing spaces. Our core businesses are concentrated in slower-growing center-store categories in traditional mass and grocery channels. Factors that may impact our success include:  •our ability to identify and capitalize on faster-growing spaces;•our ability to identify and capitalize on customer or consumer trends, including those related to new or improved products or packaging or to our existing products;•our ability to design and implement effective retail execution plans;•our ability to design and implement effective advertising and marketing programs, including digital programs;•our ability to secure or maintain sufficient shelf space at retailers; and•changes in underlying growth rates of the categories in which we compete. If we are not successful in addressing theses factors, our strategy may not be successful and/or our business or financial results may be negatively impacted.  We may not realize anticipated benefits from our cost reduction, organizational design or other initiatives We recently implemented a new enterprise design focused mainly on product categories. We are also pursuing related initiatives to reduce costs and increase effectiveness, such as streamlining our organization and adopting zero-based budgeting over time. The success of these initiatives presents significant organizational challenges and in some cases may require extensive negotiations with third parties, such as suppliers and other business partners. As a result, we may not realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits from the initiatives. Other events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays or unexpected costs, may also adversely impact our ability to realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits, or cause us not to realize the anticipated cost savings or other benefits on the expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated cost savings, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. In addition, the initiatives may not advance our strategy as expected. Finally, the complexity of the initiatives will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. Our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiatives. These and related demands on our resources may divert the organization’s attention from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. From time-to-time, we may also implement other supply chain, information technology or related initiatives. Our success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, these additional initiatives, which are often complex. Any failure to implement our cost reduction, organizational design or other initiatives in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business or financial results.Our results may be adversely affected by the failure to execute acquisitions and divestitures successfullyOur ability to meet our objectives with respect to the acquisition of new businesses or the divestiture of existing businesses may depend in part on our ability to identify suitable buyers and sellers, negotiate favorable financial terms and other contractual terms, and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. Potential risks of acquisitions also include:•the inability to integrate acquired businesses efficiently into our existing operations;•diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;•potential loss of key employees and/or customers of acquired businesses;6 •potential assumption of unknown liabilities;•the inability to implement promptly an effective control environment; •potential impairment charges if purchase assumptions are not achieved or market conditions decline; and •the risks inherent in entering markets or lines of business with which we have limited or no prior experience.  Acquisitions outside the U.S. may present unique challenges and increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and risks associated with local regulatory regimes. For divestitures, potential risks may also include the inability to separate divested businesses or business units from us effectively and efficiently and to reduce or eliminate associated overhead costs. Our business or financial results may be negatively affected if acquisitions or divestitures are not successfully implemented or completed.  Disruption to our supply chain could adversely affect our businessOur ability to manufacture and/or sell our products may be impaired by damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or to the capabilities of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, due to factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, pandemics, strikes or other events. Production of the agricultural commodities used in our business may also be adversely affected by drought, water scarcity, temperature extremes, scarcity of suitable agricultural land, crop disease and/or crop pests. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, may adversely affect our business or financial results, particularly in circumstances where a product is sourced from a single supplier or location. Disputes with significant suppliers or contract manufacturers, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, may also adversely affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell our products, as well as our business or financial results.Our non-U.S. operations pose additional risks to our businessIn 2015, approximately 21% of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations were generated outside of the U.S. Sales outside the U.S. are expected to continue to represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales. Our business or financial performance may be adversely affected due to the risks of doing business in markets outside of the U.S., including but not limited to the following:•unfavorable changes in tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or other export and import restrictions;•the difficulty and/or costs of complying with a wide variety of laws, treaties and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •the difficulty and/or costs of designing and implementing an effective control environment across diverse regions and employee bases;•the adverse impact of foreign tax treaties and policies;•political or economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, armed hostilities or terrorist acts; •the possible nationalization of operations; •the difficulty of enforcing remedies and protecting intellectual property in various jurisdictions; and •restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from countries outside of the U.S., including potentially negative tax consequences.In addition, we hold assets and incur liabilities, generate revenue, and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, and we must translate our assets, liabilities, sales and expenses into U.S. dollars for external reporting purposes. As a result, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates or currency exchange controls may materially and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their local currency.We face risks related to recession, financial and credit market disruptions and other economic conditionsCustomer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other negative economic factors in the U.S. or other nations. Similarly, disruptions in financial and/or credit markets may impact our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. In addition, changes in tax or interest rates in the U.S. or other nations, whether due to recession, financial and credit market disruptions or other reasons, could impact us.Increased regulation or regulatory-based claims could adversely affect our business or financial resultsThe manufacture and marketing of food products is extensively regulated. The primary areas of regulation include the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, marketing, advertising, labeling, quality and safety of our food products, as well as 7 the health and safety of our employees and the protection of the environment. In the U.S., we are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. We are also regulated by similar agencies outside the U.S. Changes in regulatory requirements (such as proposed labeling requirements), or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance cost, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results.  In addition, the marketing of food products has come under increased scrutiny in recent years, and the food industry has been subject to an increasing number of legal proceedings and claims relating to alleged false or deceptive marketing under federal, state and foreign laws or regulations. Legal proceedings or claims related to our marketing could damage our reputation and/or could adversely affect our business or financial results.  Our results may be adversely impacted by increases in the price of raw and packaging materialsThe raw and packaging materials used in our business include tomato paste, grains, beef, poultry, vegetables, steel, glass, paper and resin. Many of these materials are subject to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including crop size, cattle cycles, disease, product scarcity, demand for raw materials, commodity market speculation, energy costs, currency fluctuations, government-sponsored agricultural programs, import and export requirements, drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change). To the extent any of these factors result in an increase in raw and packaging material prices, we may not be able to offset such increases through productivity or price increases or through our commodity hedging activity.Adverse changes in the global climate or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our business or operationsOur business or financial results could be adversely affected by changing global temperatures or weather patterns or by extreme or unusual weather conditions. Adverse changes in the global climate or extreme or unusual weather conditions could:•unfavorably impact the cost or availability of raw or packaging materials, especially if such events have a negative impact on agricultural productivity or on the supply of water;•disrupt our ability, or the ability of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, to manufacture or distribute our products;•disrupt the retail operations of our customers; or•unfavorably impact the demand for, or the consumer's ability to purchase, our products.In addition, there is growing concern that the release of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere may be impacting global temperatures and weather patterns and contributing to extreme or unusual weather conditions. This growing concern may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. Adoption of such additional regulation may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. Price increases may not be sufficient to cover increased costs, or may result in declines in sales volume due to pricing elasticity in the marketplaceWe intend to pass along to customers some or all cost increases in raw and packaging materials and other inputs through increases in the selling prices of, or decreases in the packaging sizes of, some of our products. Higher product prices or smaller packaging sizes may result in reductions in sales volume. To the extent the price increases or packaging size decreases are not sufficient to offset increased raw and packaging materials and other input costs, and/or if they result in significant decreases in sales volume, our business results and financial condition may be adversely affected.We may be adversely impacted by a changing customer landscape and the increased significance of some of our customersOur businesses are largely concentrated in the traditional retail grocery trade. In recent years, alternative retail grocery channels, such as dollar stores, drug stores, club stores and Internet-based retailers, have increased their market share. This trend towards alternative channels is expected to continue in the future. If we are not successful in pursuing our strategy to expand sales in alternative retail grocery channels, our business or financial results may be adversely impacted. In addition, consolidations in the traditional retail grocery trade have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength who may seek lower prices, increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers or more favorable terms. These customers may use more of their shelf space for their private label products. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these customer dynamics, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In 2015, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 38% of our consolidated net sales, with the largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounting for approximately 20% of our consolidated net sales. Disruption of sales to any of these customers, or to any of our other large customers, for an extended period of time could adversely affect our business or financial results. 8 If our food products become adulterated or are mislabeled, we might need to recall those items, and we may experience product liability claims if consumers are injuredWe may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or if they are mislabeled, and we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury to consumers. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant adverse product liability judgment. A significant product recall or product liability claim could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in the safety and/or quality of our products, ingredients or packaging. Such a loss of confidence could occur even in the absence of a recall or a major product liability claim.  We may be adversely impacted by inadequacies in, or security breaches of, our information technology systemsOur information technology systems are critically important to our operations. We rely on  our information technology systems (some of which are outsourced to third parties) to manage the data, communications and business processes for all of our functions, including our marketing, sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, accounting and administrative functions. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to material security breaches (including the access to or acquisition of customer, consumer or other confidential data), cyber-based attacks or other material system failures. If we are unable to prevent material failures, our operations may be impacted, and we may suffer other negative consequences such as reputational damage, litigation, remediation costs and/or penalties under various data privacy laws and regulations.   Our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brandsWe have a number of iconic brands with significant value. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. Brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. Success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products, packaging and/or ingredients (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. The growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about us, our brands, products or packaging on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands and reputation. If we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted.An impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our financial results and net worth As of August 2, 2015, we had goodwill of $2.3 billion and other indefinite-lived intangible assets of $960 million. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. We test goodwill at the reporting unit level by comparing the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to the unit's fair value. Similarly, we test indefinite-lived intangible assets by comparing the fair value of the assets to their carrying values. Fair value for both goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. If the carrying values of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets exceed their fair value, the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are considered impaired and reduced to fair value. Factors that could result in an impairment include a change in revenue growth rates, operating margins, weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions or assumed royalty rates. An impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our financial results and net worth. We may be adversely impacted by legal proceedings or claimsWe are party to a variety of legal proceedings and claims arising out of the normal course of business. Since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such proceedings or claims, or that our assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such proceedings or claims. In addition, our reputation could be damaged by allegations made in legal proceeding or claims (even if untrue). In the event we are unable to successfully defend ourselves against these proceedings or claims, or if our assessment of the materiality of these proceedings or claims proves inaccurate, our business or financial results may be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by increased liabilities and costs related to our defined benefit pension plansWe sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for employees in the U.S. and various non-U.S. locations. The major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in regulatory requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future 9 funding requirements of the plans and the funded status as recorded on the balance sheet. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.Item 1B