Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report,
    the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely
    affect the company’s business, financial condition and
    results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known to the company or that the company currently
    deems immaterial also may impair the company’s business
    operations and financial condition.


 



    The
    company operates in a highly competitive industry


 


    The company operates in the highly competitive food industry and
    experiences worldwide competition in all of its principal
    products. The principal areas of competition are brand
    recognition, taste, quality, price, advertising, promotion,
    convenience and service. A number of the company’s primary
    competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other
    resources. A strong competitive response from one or more of
    these competitors to the company’s marketplace efforts, or
    a consumer shift towards private label offerings, could result
    in the company reducing pricing, increasing marketing or other
    expenditures,
    and/or
    losing market share.


 



    The
    company faces risks related to recession, financial and credit
    market disruptions and other economic conditions


 


    Customer and consumer demand for the company’s products may
    be impacted by recession or other economic downturns in the
    United States or other nations. Similarly, disruptions in
    financial and credit markets may impact the company’s
    ability to manage normal commercial relationships with its
    customers, suppliers and creditors. In addition, changes in any
    one of the following factors in the United States or other
    nations, whether due to recession, financial and credit market
    disruptions or other reasons, could impact the company: tax
    rates, interest rates or equity markets.


 



    Increased
    regulation could adversely affect the company’s business or
    financial results


 


    The manufacture and marketing of food products is extensively
    regulated. The primary areas of regulation include the
    processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising,
    labeling, quality and safety of the company’s food
    products, as well as the health and safety of the company’s
    employees and the protection of the environment. In the United
    States, the company is subject to regulation by various
    government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration,
    the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade
    Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
    and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various
    state and local agencies. The company is also regulated by
    similar agencies outside the United States and by voluntary
    organizations, such as the National Advertising Division and the
    Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative of the
    Council of





    
    4



 





    Better Business Bureaus. Changes in regulatory requirements
    (such as proposed requirements designed to restrict food
    marketing), or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory
    requirements, may result in increased compliance cost, capital
    expenditures and other financial obligations that could
    adversely affect the company’s business or financial
    results.


 



    Fluctuations
    in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect the
    company’s results


 


    The company holds assets and incurs liabilities, generates
    revenue, and pays expenses in a variety of currencies other than
    the U.S. dollar, primarily the Australian dollar, Canadian
    dollar, and the euro. The company’s consolidated financial
    statements are presented in U.S. dollars, and therefore the
    company must translate its assets, liabilities, sales and
    expenses into U.S. dollars for external reporting purposes.
    As a result, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may
    materially and negatively affect the value of these items in the
    company’s consolidated financial statements, even if their
    value has not changed in their original currency.


 



    The
    company’s results may be adversely impacted by increases in
    the price of raw and packaging materials


 


    The raw and packaging materials used in the company’s
    business include tomato paste, grains, beef, poultry,
    vegetables, steel, glass, paper and resin. Many of these
    materials are subject to price fluctuations from a number of
    factors, including product scarcity, demand for raw materials,
    commodity market speculation, energy costs, currency
    fluctuations, weather conditions (including the potential
    effects of climate change), import and export requirements and
    changes in government-sponsored agricultural programs. To the
    extent any of these factors result in an increase in raw and
    packaging material prices, the company may not be able to offset
    such increases through productivity or price increases or
    through its commodity hedging activity.


 



    Price
    increases may not be sufficient to cover increased costs, or may
    result in declines in sales volume due to pricing elasticity in
    the marketplace


 


    The company intends to pass along to customers some or all cost
    increases in raw and packaging materials and other inputs
    through increases in the selling prices of some of its products.
    Higher product prices may result in reductions in sales volume.
    To the extent the price increases are not sufficient to offset
    increased raw and packaging materials and other inputs costs,
    and/or if
    they result in significant decreases in sales volume, the
    company’s business results and financial condition may be
    adversely affected.


 



    The
    company’s results are dependent on successful marketplace
    initiatives and acceptance by consumers of the company’s
    products, including new products or packaging
    introductions


 


    The company’s results are dependent on successful
    marketplace initiatives and acceptance by consumers of the
    company’s products. The company’s product
    introductions and product improvements, along with its other
    marketplace initiatives, are designed to capitalize on customer
    or consumer trends. In order to remain successful, the company
    must anticipate and react to these trends and develop new
    products or processes to address them. While the company devotes
    significant resources to meeting this goal, the company may not
    be successful in developing new products or processes, or its
    new products or processes may not be accepted by customers or
    consumers.


 



    The
    company may be adversely impacted by increased liabilities and
    costs related to its defined benefit pension plans


 


    The company sponsors a number of defined benefit pension plans
    for employees in the United States and various
    non-U.S. locations.
    The major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust
    assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of
    securities and other investments. Changes in regulatory
    requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment
    returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the
    funded status of the company’s defined benefit pension
    plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost,
    future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status
    as recorded on the balance sheet. A significant increase in the
    company’s obligations or future funding requirements could
    have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the
    company.




    
    5



 






    The
    company may be adversely impacted by the increased significance
    of some of its customers


 


    The retail grocery trade continues to consolidate. These
    consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with
    increased buying power and negotiating strength who may seek
    lower prices or increased promotional programs funded by their
    suppliers. These customers may also in the future use more of
    their shelf space, currently used for the company’s
    products, for their private label products. If the company is
    unable to use its scale, marketing expertise, product innovation
    and category leadership positions to respond to these customer
    initiatives, the company’s business or financial results
    could be negatively impacted. In addition, the disruption of
    sales to any of the company’s large customers for an
    extended period of time could adversely affect the
    company’s business or financial results.


 



    The
    company may be adversely impacted by inadequacies in, or failure
    of, its information technology systems


 


    Each year the company engages in several billion dollars of
    transactions with its customers and vendors. Because the amount
    of dollars involved is so significant, the company’s
    information technology resources must provide connections among
    its marketing, sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer
    service, and accounting functions. If the company does not
    allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build
    and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure and to
    maintain the related computerized and manual control processes,
    the company’s business or financial results could be
    negatively impacted. Furthermore, the company’s information
    technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches or
    other system failures. If the company is unable to prevent such
    security breaches or system failures, the company’s
    business or financial results could be negatively impacted.


 



    The
    company may not properly execute, or realize anticipated cost
    savings or benefits from, its ongoing supply chain, information
    technology or other initiatives


 


    The company’s success is partly dependent upon properly
    executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from,
    its ongoing supply chain, information technology and other
    initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to make
    the company more efficient in the manufacture and distribution
    of its products, which is necessary in the company’s highly
    competitive industry. These initiatives are often complex, and a
    failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not
    meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in an
    interruption to the company’s sales, manufacturing,
    logistics, customer service or accounting functions.


 



    Disruption
    to the company’s supply chain could adversely affect its
    business


 


    Damage or disruption to the company’s suppliers or to the
    company’s manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to
    weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes,
    or other reasons could impair the company’s ability to
    manufacture
    and/or sell
    its products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the
    likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively
    manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is
    sourced from a single location, could adversely affect the
    company’s business or financial results.


 



    The
    company may be adversely impacted by the failure to execute
    acquisitions and divestitures successfully


 


    From time to time, the company undertakes acquisitions or
    divestitures. The success of any such acquisition or divestiture
    depends, in part, upon the company’s ability to identify
    suitable buyers or sellers, negotiate favorable contractual
    terms and, in many cases, obtain governmental approval. For
    acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently
    integrating the acquired business into the company’s
    existing operations, successfully managing new risks associated
    with the acquired business and achieving expected returns and
    other benefits. Acquisitions outside the United States may
    present unique challenges or increase the company’s
    exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including
    foreign currency risks and the risks of complying with foreign
    regulations. Finally, for acquisitions, the company may incur
    substantial additional indebtedness, which could adversely
    impact its credit rating. In cases where acquisitions or
    divestitures are not successfully implemented or completed, the
    company’s business or financial results could be negatively
    impacted.




    
    6



 






    The
    company’s results may be impacted negatively by political
    conditions in the nations where the company does
    business


 


    The company is a global manufacturer and marketer of
    high-quality, branded convenience food products. Because of its
    global reach, the company’s performance may be impacted
    negatively by politically motivated factors, such as unfavorable
    changes in tariffs or export and import restrictions, in the
    nations where it does business. The company may also be impacted
    by political instability, civil disobedience, armed hostilities
    and terrorist acts in the nations where it does business.


 



    If the
    company’s food products become adulterated or are
    mislabeled, the company might need to recall those items and may
    experience product liability claims if consumers are
    injured


 


    The company may need to recall some of its products if they
    become adulterated or if they are mislabeled. The company may
    also be liable if the consumption of any of its products causes
    injury. A widespread product recall could result in significant
    losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product
    inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product
    for a period of time. The company could also suffer losses from
    a significant product liability judgment against it. A
    significant product recall or product liability case could also
    result in adverse publicity, damage to the company’s
    reputation and a loss of consumer confidence in the
    company’s products. In addition, the company’s results
    could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the
    safety and quality of the company’s products, ingredients
    or packaging, even in the absence of a recall or a product
    liability case. Adverse publicity about the company’s
    products, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from
    buying the company’s products.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B