ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryIf our security measures or those of our third-party data center hosting facilities, cloud computing platform providers, or third-party service partners, are breached, and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, our data or our IT systems, our services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities.Our services involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. While we have security measures in place, they may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our IT data, our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers’ data, our data or our IT systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, our customers may authorize third-party technology providers to access their customer data, and some of our customers may not have adequate security measures in place to protect their data that is stored on our services. Because we do not control our customers or third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Malicious third parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our services. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our services, damage our reputation, negatively impact our future sales, disrupt our business and lead to legal liability.Defects or disruptions in our services could diminish demand for our services and subject us to substantial liability.Because our services are complex and incorporate a variety of hardware and proprietary and third-party software, our services may have errors or defects that could result in unanticipated downtime for our subscribers and harm to our reputation and our business. Cloud services frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in, and experienced disruptions to, our services and new defects or disruptions may occur in the future. In addition, our customers may use our services in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in services for other customers attempting to access their data. As we acquire companies, we may encounter difficulty in incorporating the acquired technologies into our services and maintaining the quality standards that are consistent with our brand and reputation. Since our customers use our services for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. As a result, customers could elect to not renew our services or delay or withhold payment to us. We could also lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation.Interruptions or delays in services from our third-party data center hosting facilities or cloud computing platform providers could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business.We currently serve our customers from third-party data center hosting facilities and cloud computing platform providers located in the United States and other countries. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our services. We have from time to time experienced interruptions in our services and such interruptions may occur in the future. Interruptions in our services may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our attrition rates and our ability to attract new customers, all of which would reduce our revenue. Our business would also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable.As part of our current disaster recovery and business continuity arrangements, our production environment and all of our customers’ data are currently replicated in near real-time in a separate facility located elsewhere. Companies and products added through acquisition may be served through alternate facilities. We do not control the operation of any of these facilities, and they may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, as well as local administrative actions, changes to legal or permitting requirements and litigation to stop, limit or delay operation. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Even with disaster recovery and business continuity arrangements, our services could be interrupted.11Table of ContentsWhen we add data centers and add capacity, we may move or transfer our data and our customers’ data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our services, which may damage our business.Privacy concerns and laws, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions and other domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services and adversely affect our business.Regulation related to the provision of services on the Internet is increasing, as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage and use of personal information. In some cases, foreign data privacy laws and regulations, such as the European Union’s Data Protection Directive, and the country-specific laws and regulations that implement that directive, also govern the processing of personal information. Further, laws are increasingly aimed at the use of personal information for marketing purposes, such as the European Union’s e-Privacy Directive, and the country-specific regulations that implement that directive. Such laws and regulations are subject to new and differing interpretations and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. These and other requirements could reduce demand for our services or restrict our ability to store and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers' ability to deploy our solutions globally. For example, in October 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework that had been in place since 2000, which allowed companies to meet certain European legal requirements for the transfer of personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States. While other adequate legal mechanisms to lawfully transfer such data remain, the invalidation of the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework may result in different European data protection regulators applying differing standards for the transfer of personal data, which could result in increased regulation, cost of compliance and limitations on data transfer for Salesforce and its customers. The costs of compliance with and other burdens imposed by laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance, or slow the pace at which we close sales transactions, any of which could harm our business.In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy and other industry groups have established or may establish new self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. Our customers expect us to meet voluntary certification or other standards established by third parties, such as TRUSTe. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our solutions to certain customers and could harm our business.Furthermore, concerns regarding data privacy may cause our customers’ customers to resist providing the data necessary to allow our customers to use our services effectively. Even the perception that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected or does not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions.Industry-specific regulation and other requirements and standards are evolving and unfavorable industry-specific laws, regulations, interpretive positions or standards could harm our business.Our customers and potential customers conduct business in a variety of industries, including financial services, the public sector, healthcare and telecommunications. Regulators in certain industries have adopted and may in the future adopt regulations or interpretive positions regarding the use of cloud computing and other outsourced services. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, industry-specific laws, regulations and interpretive positions may limit our customers’ use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for our services. Compliance with these regulations may also require us to devote greater resources to support certain customers, which may increase costs and lengthen sales cycles. For example, some financial services regulators have imposed guidelines for use of cloud computing services that mandate specific controls or require financial services enterprises to obtain regulatory approval prior to outsourcing certain functions. If we are unable to comply with these guidelines or controls, or if our customers are unable to obtain regulatory approval to use our services where required, our business may be harmed. In addition, an inability to satisfy the standards of certain voluntary third-party certification bodies that our customers may expect, such as an attestation of compliance with the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards, may have an adverse impact on our business and results. Further, there are various statutes, regulations, and rulings relevant to the direct email marketing and text-messaging industries, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) and related Federal Communication Commission (FCC) orders. The interpretation of many of these statutes, regulations, and rulings is evolving in the courts and administrative agencies and an inability to comply may have an adverse impact on our business and results. If in the future we are unable to achieve or maintain industry-specific certifications or other requirements or standards relevant to our customers, it may harm our business and adversely affect our results.In some cases, industry-specific laws, regulations or interpretive positions may also apply directly to us as a service provider. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such requirements could have an adverse impact on our business. 12Table of ContentsWe rely on third-party computer hardware, software and cloud computing platforms that could cause errors in, or failures of, our services and may be difficult to replace.We rely on computer hardware purchased or leased from, software licensed from, and cloud computing platforms provided by, third parties in order to offer our services, including database software and hardware from a variety of vendors. Any errors or defects in third-party hardware, software or cloud computing platforms could result in errors in, or a failure of, our services, which could harm our business. These hardware, software and cloud computing platforms may not continue to be available at reasonable prices, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of these hardware, software or cloud computing platforms could significantly increase our expenses and otherwise result in delays in the provisioning of our services until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained through purchase or license and integrated into our services.The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed.The market for enterprise applications and platform services is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. We compete primarily with generalized platforms and vendors of packaged business software, as well as companies offering enterprise apps, including CRM, collaboration and business intelligence software. We also compete with internally developed apps and face competition from enterprise software vendors and online service providers who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new applications that run on the customers’ current infrastructure or as hosted services. Our current competitors include:•on premise offerings from enterprise software application vendors;•cloud computing application service providers;•software companies that provide their product or service free of charge, and only charge a premium for advanced features and functionality;•social media companies;•traditional platform development environment companies; •cloud computing development platform companies; •internally developed applications (by our potential customers' IT departments); and•Internet of Things platforms from large companies that have existing relationships with hardware and software companies. Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories and larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. Furthermore, because of these advantages, even if our services are more effective than the products and services that our competitors offer, potential customers might select competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our services. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors.We are subject to risks associated with our strategic investments. Other-than-temporary impairments in the value of our investments could negatively impact our financial results. We invest in early-to-late stage companies for strategic reasons and to support key business initiatives, and may not realize a return on our strategic investments. Many such companies generate net losses and the market for their products, services or technologies may be slow to develop, and, therefore, are dependent on the availability of later rounds of financing from banks or investors on favorable terms to continue their operations. The financial success of our investment in any company is typically dependent on a liquidity event, such as a public offering, acquisition or other favorable market event reflecting appreciation to the cost of our initial investment. The capital markets for public offerings and acquisitions are dynamic and the likelihood of liquidity events for the companies we have invested in could significantly worsen. Further, valuations of privately-held companies are inherently complex due to the lack of readily available market data. If we determine that any of our investments in such companies have experienced a decline in value, we may be required to record an other than temporary impairment, which could be material. We have in the past written off the full value of specific investments. Similar situations could occur in the future and negatively impact our financial results. All of our investments are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of investment capital.13Table of ContentsAs we acquire and invest in companies or technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and the acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results and the market value of our common stock.As part of our business strategy, we periodically make investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies and intellectual property rights, and we expect that we will continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including:•potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition;•difficulties in, and the cost of, integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel;•diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations;•the potential entry into new markets in which we have little or no experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;•potential write-offs of acquired assets or investments, and potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers;•potential loss of key employees of the acquired company;•inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs;•inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business;•difficulty of transitioning the acquired technology onto our existing platforms and maintaining the security standards for such technology consistent with our other services;•potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;•unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into our existing technology;•negative impact to our results of operations because of the depreciation and amortization of amounts related to acquired intangible assets, fixed assets and deferred compensation, and the loss of acquired deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue;•delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition;•the need to implement controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company;•challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences;•in the case of foreign acquisitions, the challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages and any currency and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and•the tax effects of any such acquisitions.Any of these risks could harm our business. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligation related to the incurrence of indebtedness that could affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate and our stock price and the value of our common stock could decline substantially.Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate. For example, our fiscal fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. The year-over-year compounding effect of this seasonality in billing patterns and overall new business and renewal activity causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter to continually increase in proportion to our billings in the other three quarters of our fiscal year. As a result, our fiscal first quarter is our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter.  Additionally, some of the important factors that may cause our revenues, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include:•our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ requirements;•the attrition rates for our services;•the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business;•changes in deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue balances, which are not reflected in the balance sheet, due to seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, size and timing, new business linearity between quarters and within a quarter and fluctuations due to foreign currency movements;•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;14Table of Contents•the number of new employees;•changes in our pricing policies and terms of contracts, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition;•the cost, timing and management effort for the introduction of new features to our services;•the costs associated with acquiring new businesses and technologies and the follow-on costs of integration and consolidating the results of acquired businesses;•the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force;•the length of the sales cycle for our services;•new product and service introductions by our competitors;•our success in selling our services to large enterprises;•evolving regulations of cloud computing and cross-border data transfer restrictions and similar regulations;•variations in the revenue mix of editions of our services;•technical difficulties or interruptions in our services;•expenses related to our real estate, our office leases and our data center capacity and expansion;•changes in interest rates and our mix of investments, which would impact the return on our investments in cash and marketable securities;•conditions, particularly sudden changes, in the financial markets, which have impacted and may continue to impact the value of and liquidity of our investment portfolio;•income tax effects;•our ability to realize benefits from strategic partnerships, acquisition or investments;•other than temporary impairments in the value of our strategic investments in early-to-late stage privately held companies, which could be material in a particular quarter; •expenses related to significant, unusual or discrete events, which are recorded in the period in which the events occur;•general economic conditions, which may adversely affect either our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions or upgrade their services, or delay a prospective customer's purchasing decision, reduce the value of new subscription contracts, or affect attrition rates;•timing of additional investments in our enterprise cloud computing application and platform services and in our consulting services;•regulatory compliance costs;•changes in payment terms and the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers;•extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments;•the impact of new accounting pronouncements;•equity issuances, including as consideration in acquisitions or due to the conversion of our outstanding convertible notes at the election of the note holders;•the timing of stock awards to employees and the related adverse financial statement impact of having to expense those stock awards on a straight-line basis over their vesting schedules;•the timing of commission, bonus, and other compensation payments to employees; and•the timing of payroll and other withholding tax expenses, which are triggered by the payment of bonuses and when employees exercise their vested stock awards.Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that historical quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, operating results, changes in our deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue balances and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.Additionally, if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or if one or more of the securities analysts who cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock, the market price of our common stock could decline. Moreover, our stock price may be based on expectations, estimates and forecasts of our future performance that may be unrealistic or that may not be met. Further, our stock price may fluctuate based on reporting by the financial media, including television, radio and press reports and blogs.15Table of ContentsIf we experience significant fluctuations in our rate of anticipated growth and fail to balance our expenses with our revenue forecasts, our results could be harmed.Due to the pace of change and innovation in enterprise cloud computing services and the unpredictability of future general economic and financial market conditions and the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, we may not be able to accurately forecast our rate of growth. We plan our expense levels and investment on estimates of future revenue and future anticipated rate of growth. We may not be able to adjust our spending appropriately if the addition of new subscriptions or the renewals of existing subscriptions fall short of our expectations. A portion of our expenses may also be fixed in nature for some minimum amount of time, such as with a data center contract or office lease, so it may not be possible to reduce costs in a timely manner or without the payment of fees to exit certain obligations early. As a result, we expect that our revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. Our recent revenue growth rates may not be sustainable and may decline in the future. We believe that historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenues, operating results and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.Our efforts to expand our services beyond the CRM market and to develop our existing services in order to keep pace with technological developments may not succeed and may reduce our revenue growth rate and harm our business.We derive substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to our CRM enterprise cloud computing application services, and we expect this will continue for the foreseeable future. The markets for our Analytics, Communities and Internet of Things Clouds remain relatively new and it is uncertain whether our efforts will ever result in significant revenue for us. Further, the introduction of significant platform changes and upgrades, including our conversion to our new Lightning platform, and introduction of new services beyond the CRM market, may not be successful, and early stage interest and adoption of such new services may not result in long term success or significant revenue for us. Our efforts to expand our services beyond the CRM market may not succeed and may reduce our revenue growth rate.Additionally, if we are unable to develop enhancements to and new features for our existing or new services that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our business will be harmed. The success of enhancements, new features and services depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature, service or enhancement. Failure in this regard may significantly impair our revenue growth. In addition, because our services are designed to operate on a variety of network hardware and software platforms using a standard browser, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our services to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. We may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in bringing them to market timely. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase our research and development or service delivery expenses. Any failure of our services to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our services, result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business. Additionally, if we fail to anticipate or identify significant Internet-related and other technology trends and developments early enough, or if we do not devote appropriate resources to adapting to such trends and developments, our business could be harmed.Sales to customers outside the United States expose us to risks inherent in international sales.We sell our services throughout the world and are subject to risks and challenges associated with international business. Historically, sales in Europe and Asia Pacific together have represented approximately 30 percent of our total revenues, and we intend to continue to expand our international sales efforts. The risks and challenges associated with sales to customers outside the United States include:•localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses;•laws and business practices favoring local competitors;•pressure on the creditworthiness of sovereign nations, particularly in Europe, where we have customers and a balance of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities;•liquidity issues or political actions by sovereign nations, which could result in decreased values of these balances;•foreign currency fluctuations and controls;•compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy, anti-corruption, import/export, antitrust, data transfer, storage and protection, and industry-specific laws and regulations, including rules related to compliance by our third-party resellers;•regional data privacy laws and other regulatory requirements that apply to outsourced service providers and to the transmission of our customers’ data across international borders;16Table of Contents•treatment of revenue from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions;•different pricing environments;•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;•different or lesser protection of our intellectual property;•longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties;•natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics or security breaches; and•regional economic and political conditions.Any of these factors could negatively impact our business and results of operations.Additionally, our international subscription fees are paid either in U.S. dollars or local currency. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our services more expensive for international customers, which could harm our business.Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our services over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in new business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results.We generally recognize revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which are typically 12 to 36 months. As a result, most of the revenue we report in each quarter is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results for that quarter. Any such decline, however, will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and potential changes in our attrition rate, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or reduce the number of paying subscriptions at the time of renewal, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. If we cannot accurately predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates, we may not meet our revenue targets which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period, which is typically 12 to 36 months, and in the normal course of business, some customers have elected not to renew. In addition, our customers may renew for fewer subscriptions, renew for shorter contract lengths, or switch to lower cost offerings of our services. We cannot accurately predict attrition rates given our varied customer base of enterprise and small and medium size business customers and the number of multi-year subscription contracts. Our attrition rates may increase or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our services, customers’ spending levels, decreases in the number of users at our customers, pricing increases or changes and deteriorating general economic conditions. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell additional features and services, more subscriptions or enhanced editions of our services to our current customers. This may also require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. Similarly, the rate at which our customers purchase new or enhanced services depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions and that our customers do not react negatively to any price changes related to these additional features and services. If our efforts to upsell to our customers are not successful our business may suffer.If the market for our technology delivery model and enterprise cloud computing services develops more slowly than we expect, our business could be harmed.Our success depends on the willingness of third-party developers to build applications that are complementary to our services. Without the development of these applications, both current and potential customers may not find our services sufficiently attractive. In addition, for those customers who authorize a third-party technology partner access to their data, we do not provide any warranty related to the functionality, security and integrity of the data transmission or processing. Despite contract provisions to protect us, customers may look to us to support and provide warranties for the third-party applications, which may expose us to potential claims, liabilities and obligations for applications we did not develop or sell, all of which could harm our business.We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows from changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar versus local currencies. We conduct our business in the following locations: United States, Europe, Canada, Asia Pacific and Japan. The expanding global scope of our business exposes us to risk of fluctuations in foreign currency markets. This exposure is the 17Table of Contentsresult of selling in multiple currencies, growth in our international investments, including data center expansion, additional headcount in foreign locations, and operating in countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Specifically, our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations in the following currencies: the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and economic conditions change. The fluctuations of currencies in which we conduct business can both increase and decrease our overall revenue and expenses for any given fiscal period. Such volatility, even when it increases our revenues or decreases our expenses, impacts our ability to accurately predict our future results and earnings. Supporting our existing and growing customer base could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to scale our operations and increase productivity, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan.We continue to experience significant growth in our customer base and personnel, which has placed a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We anticipate that additional investments in our internal infrastructure, data center capacity, research, customer support and development, and real estate spending will be required to scale our operations and increase productivity, to address the needs of our customers, to further develop and enhance our services, to expand into new geographic areas, and to scale with our overall growth. The additional investments we are making will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. We regularly upgrade or replace our various software systems. If the implementations of these new applications are delayed, or if we encounter unforeseen problems with our new systems or in migrating away from our existing applications and systems, our operations and our ability to manage our business could be negatively impacted.Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage our projected growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to increase the productivity of our existing employees and to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. To manage the expected domestic and international growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, our reporting systems and procedures, and our utilization of real estate. If we fail to successfully scale our operations and increase productivity, we will be unable to execute our business plan.As more of our sales efforts are targeted at larger enterprise customers, our sales cycle may become more time-consuming and expensive, we may encounter pricing pressure and implementation and customization challenges, and we may have to delay revenue recognition for some complex transactions, all of which could harm our business and operating results.As we target more of our sales efforts at larger enterprise customers, including governmental entities, we may face greater costs, longer sales cycles, greater competition and less predictability in completing some of our sales. In this market segment, the customer’s decision to use our services may be an enterprise-wide decision and, if so, these types of sales would require us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our services, as well as education regarding privacy and data protection laws and regulations to prospective customers with international operations. In addition, larger customers and governmental entities may demand more customization, integration services and features. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, driving up costs and time required to complete sales and diverting our own sales and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions, while potentially requiring us to delay revenue recognition on some of these transactions until the technical or implementation requirements have been met.Pricing and packaging strategies for enterprise and other customers for subscriptions to our existing and future service offerings may not be widely accepted by other new or existing customers. Our adoption of such new pricing and packaging strategies may harm our business.For large enterprise customers, professional services may also be performed by a third party or a combination of our own staff and a third party. Our strategy is to work with third parties to increase the breadth of capability and depth of capacity for delivery of these services to our customers. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a third party or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customer’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that customer. In addition, negative publicity related to our customer relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new business with current and prospective customers.18Table of ContentsWe have been and may in the future be sued by third parties for various claims including alleged infringement of proprietary rights.We are involved in various legal matters arising from the normal course of business activities. These may include claims, suits, government investigations and other proceedings involving alleged infringement of third-party patents and other intellectual property rights, commercial, corporate and securities, labor and employment, class actions, wage and hour, and other matters.The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received in the past and may receive in the future communications from third parties, including practicing entities and non-practicing entities, claiming that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. In addition, we have been, and may in the future be, sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their claimed proprietary rights. For example, during fiscal 2015, we received a communication from a large technology company alleging that we infringed certain of its patents. While we continue to analyze this claim and no litigation has been filed to date, there can be no assurance that this claim will not lead to litigation in the future. Our technologies may be subject to injunction if they are found to infringe the rights of a third party or we may be required to pay damages, or both. Further, many of our subscription agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling on such a claim.The outcome of any claims or litigation, regardless of the merits, is inherently uncertain. Any claims and lawsuits, and the disposition of such claims and lawsuits, whether through settlement or licensing discussions, or litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert management attention from executing our business plan, result in efforts to enjoin our activities, lead to attempts on the part of other parties to pursue similar claims and, in the case of intellectual property claims, require us to change our technology, change our business practices, pay monetary damages or enter into short- or long-term royalty or licensing agreements.Any adverse determination related to intellectual property claims or other litigation could prevent us from offering our services to others, could be material to our financial condition or cash flows, or both, or could otherwise adversely affect our operating results. In addition, depending on the nature and timing of any such dispute, an unfavorable resolution of a legal matter could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows or both of a particular quarter.In addition, our exposure to risks associated with various claims, including the use of intellectual property, may be increased as a result of acquisitions of other companies. For example, we may have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to intellectual property or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks with respect to the acquired company or technology. In addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand.If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our technology, and our business may be harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights may entail significant expense. Any of our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. While we have some U.S. patents and many U.S. and international patent applications pending, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for the technology covered in our patent applications or the patent protection may not be obtained quickly enough to meet our business needs. In addition, our existing patents and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain, and we also may face proposals to change the scope of protection for some intellectual property rights in the U.S. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our services are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S., and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Also, our involvement in standard setting activity or the need to obtain licenses from others may require us to license our intellectual property. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property.We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights and we may conclude that in at least some instances the benefits of protecting our intellectual property rights may be outweighed by the expense. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel.19Table of ContentsOur continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brands.We believe that the brand identities we have developed have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the Salesforce brand and our other brands are critical to expanding our base of customers, partners and employees. Our brand strength will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality innovative products, services, and features. In order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make substantial investments that may later prove to be unsuccessful. In addition, positions the Company takes on social issues may be unpopular with some customers or potential customers, which may impact our ability to attract or retain such customers. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brands, or if we incur excessive expenses in our efforts to do so, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.We may lose key members of our management team or development and operations personnel, and may be unable to attract and retain employees we need to support our operations and growth.Our success depends substantially upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key members of management, particularly our Chief Executive Officer. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives. Such changes in our executive management team may be disruptive to our business. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing development and operations personnel because of the complexity of our services and technologies. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, key management, development or operations personnel and they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our key employees or groups could seriously harm our business.In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related services, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. In addition, we believe in the importance of our corporate culture, or Aloha spirit, which fosters dialogue, collaboration, recognition and a sense of family. As our organization grows, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success.Any failure in our delivery of high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results.Our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our applications. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our applications and business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our enterprise cloud computing solutions to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results and financial position.Periodic changes to our sales organization can be disruptive and may reduce our rate of growth.We periodically change and make adjustments to our sales organization in response to market opportunities, competitive threats, management changes, product introductions or enhancements, acquisitions, sales performance, increases in sales headcount, cost levels and other internal and external considerations. Any such future sales organization changes may result in a temporary reduction of productivity, which could negatively affect our rate of growth. In addition, any significant change to the way we structure our compensation of our sales organization may be disruptive and may affect our revenue growth.Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate and additional tax liabilities may impact our financial results.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various jurisdictions outside of the United States.  Our effective tax rate could fluctuate due to changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates. Our tax expense could also be impacted by changes in non-deductible expenses, changes in excess tax benefits related to exercises and vesting of stock-based expense, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our ability to utilize them and the applicability of withholding taxes. We are subject to tax examinations in multiple jurisdictions. While we regularly evaluate new information that may change our judgment resulting in recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. 20Table of ContentsOur tax provision could also be impacted by changes in U.S federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals such as the legislation recently enacted in the United Kingdom and Australia, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries and changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions.  Additionally, the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development recently released final guidance covering various topics, including transfer pricing, country-by-country reporting and definitional changes to permanent establishment which could ultimately impact our tax liabilities.  We may also be subject to additional tax liabilities due to changes in non-income taxes resulting from changes in federal, state or international tax laws, changes in taxing jurisdictions’ administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions, results of tax examinations, settlements or judicial decisions, changes in accounting principles, changes to the business operations, including acquisitions, as well as the evaluation of new information that results in a change to a tax position taken in a prior period.  Our debt service obligations and operating lease commitments may adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows from operations.We have a high level of debt, including the 0.25% convertible senior notes we issued in March 2013 (the “0.25% Senior Notes”) due April 1, 2018, the loan we assumed when we purchased 50 Fremont, and capital lease arrangements. Additionally, we have significant contractual commitments in operating lease arrangements, which are not reflected on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, we have a financing obligation for a leased facility of which we are deemed the owner for accounting purposes. Finally, we have a revolving credit facility under which we can draw down up to $650.0 million. As of January 31, 2016, we had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility. Our maintenance of this indebtedness and any additional issuance of indebtedness could:•impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes;•cause us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations towards debt service obligations and principal repayments;•make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general; and•due to limitations within the revolving credit facility covenants, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, make investments, make acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, pay dividends or make distributions, repurchase stock and enter into restrictive agreements, as defined in the credit agreement.Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulations. Further, our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt or contractual obligations resulting from our leases. If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt. If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service our indebtedness when payment is due, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of the instruments relating to the indebtedness, seek to refinance all or a portion of the indebtedness or obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully renegotiate such terms, that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us.A failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions of our outstanding debt could result in events of default under such instruments, which could permit acceleration of all of our notes and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Any required repayment of our notes or revolving credit facility as a result of a fundamental change or other acceleration would lower our current cash on hand such that we would not have those funds available for use in our business.The new lease accounting guidance places operating lease activity on our consolidated balance sheet in fiscal 2020, which results in an increase in both our assets and financing obligations. The implementation of this guidance may impact our ability to obtain the necessary financing from financial institutions at commercially viable rates or at all as this new guidance will result in a higher financing obligation on our consolidated balance sheet. 21Table of ContentsWeakened global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. The United States and other key international economies have experienced cyclical downturns from time to time in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. These conditions affect the rate of information technology spending and could adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our enterprise cloud computing services, delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts, or affect attrition rates, all of which could adversely affect our operating results.Natural disasters and other events beyond our control could materially adversely affect us.Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our operations, international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, pandemics and other events beyond our control. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers, and could decrease demand for our services. The majority of our research and development activities, corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, are located near major seismic faults in the San Francisco Bay Area. Because we do not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses, with the exception of the building that we own in San Francisco, and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake or catastrophic event.Risks Relating to Our Convertible Senior Notes and Our Common StockThe market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could subject us to litigation.The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the market price of our notes and common stock has been and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the market price of our notes and common stock include:•variations in our operating results, earnings per share, cash flows from operating activities, deferred revenue, year-over-year growth rates for individual core service offerings and other financial metrics and non-financial metrics, and how those results compare to analyst expectations;•variations in, and limitations of, the various financial and other metrics and modeling used by analysts in their research and reports about our business;•forward-looking guidance to industry and financial analysts related to future revenue and earnings per share;•changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock;•announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;•announcements by us or by our competitors of mergers or other strategic acquisitions, or rumors of such transactions involving us or our competitors;•announcements of customer additions and customer cancellations or delays in customer purchases;•recruitment or departure of key personnel;•disruptions in our service due to computer hardware, software, network or data center problems;•the economy as a whole, market conditions in our industry and the industries of our customers;•trading activity by a limited number of stockholders who together beneficially own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock;•the issuance of shares of common stock by us, whether in connection with an acquisition, a capital raising transaction or upon conversion of some or all of our outstanding convertible senior notes; and•issuance of debt or other convertible securities. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our notes and common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The market price of our notes and common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have experienced 22Table of Contentsvolatility in the trading price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we are the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources.We may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, including in connection with the conversion of the notes, and thereby materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the notes.We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock during the life of the notes. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and, in turn, the trading price of the notes. In addition, the conversion of some or all of the notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing holders of our common stock, and any sales in the public market of any shares of our common stock issuable upon such conversion of the notes could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. In addition, the potential conversion of the notes could depress the market price of our common stock.We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to pay the amount of cash due upon conversion of the notes or the fundamental change purchase price due when a holder submits its notes for purchase upon the occurrence of a fundamental change.Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders of the notes may require us to purchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes. In addition, if a holder converts its notes, we will generally pay such holder an amount of cash before delivering to such holder any shares of our common stock.There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the fundamental change purchase price if holders submit their notes for purchase by us upon the occurrence of a fundamental change or to pay the amount of cash due if holders surrender their notes for conversion. In addition, agreements governing any future debt may restrict our ability to make each of the required cash payments even if we have sufficient funds to make them. Furthermore, our ability to purchase the notes or to pay cash upon the conversion of the notes may be limited by law or regulatory authority. If we fail to purchase the notes, to pay interest due on, or to pay the amount of cash due upon conversion, we will be in default under the indenture, which in turn may result in the acceleration of other indebtedness we may then have. If the repayment of the other indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to repay that indebtedness and to purchase the notes or to pay the amount of cash due upon conversion. Our inability to pay for the notes that are tendered for purchase or upon conversion could result in note holders receiving substantially less than the principal amount of the notes, which could harm our reputation, financing opportunities and our business. The fundamental change provisions may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us.The fundamental change purchase rights will allow holders of the notes to require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. The provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with a make-whole fundamental change may, in certain circumstances, delay or prevent a takeover of us and the removal of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. The convertible note hedges and warrant transactions may affect the trading price of the notes and the market price of our common stock.We entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with certain hedge counterparties concurrently with the pricing of the notes. We also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties. Taken together, the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions are expected, but not guaranteed, to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the notes. If, however, the price of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrant transactions, exceeds the exercise price of the warrant transactions, the warrant transactions will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the price of our common stock as measured under the warrant transactions exceeds the strike price of the warrant transactions.The hedge counterparties and their respective affiliates periodically modify their hedge positions from time to time following the pricing of the notes (and are particularly likely to do so during any observation period relating to a conversion of the notes) by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock or the notes in privately negotiated transactions or open market transactions. The effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the trading price of the notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities, however, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the notes.We do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the notes or our common stock. In addition, we do not make any representation that the counterparties to those transactions will engage in these transactions or activities or that these transactions and activities, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice; the counterparties or their affiliates may 23Table of Contentschoose to engage in, or discontinue engaging in, any of these transactions or activities with or without notice at any time, and their decisions will be in their sole discretion and not within our control.We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions.The hedge counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that these hedge counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the hedge counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. If one or more of the hedge counterparties to one or more of our convertible note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our stock price and the volatility of our stock. In addition, upon a default by one of the hedge counterparties, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the hedge counterparties.Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the market price of our common stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the market price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions among other things:•permit the board of directors to establish the number of directors;•provide that directors may only be removed with the approval of holders of 66 2/3 percent of our outstanding capital stock;•require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board could use to implement a stockholder rights plan (also known as a “poison pill”);•prohibit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;•prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;•provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings.In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Section 203 imposes certain restrictions on merger, business combinations and other transactions between us and holders of 15 percent or more of our common stock.In addition, the fundamental change purchase rights applicable to the notes, which will allow note holders to require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, and the provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with a make-whole fundamental change may in certain circumstances delay or prevent a takeover of us and the removal of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors.ITEM 1B