Item 1A. Risk Factors beginning on page 8.
    
    Although
the Staggers Act of 1980 significantly deregulated rail rates and much of the
rail traffic of the Company's subsidiaries is currently exempt from rate
regulation by agency decision, the STB has broad jurisdiction over railroad
commercial practices, including some railroad rates.  This includes
jurisdiction over freight car charges, the transfer, extension or abandonment of
rail lines, rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic and any acquisition
of control over rail common carriers.  In 2008, for example, the STB
issued a decision modifying its policies governing certain contractual terms
sometimes used in sales of rail lines.  See Note 6, Commitments and
Contingencies for further information.
    
    In 2008,
Congress enacted the Rail Safety Improvement Act.  The legislation
includes a mandate that all Class I freight railroads implement a positive train
control system (“PTC”) by December 31, 2015.  PTC must be installed on
all main lines with passenger and computer operations as well as those over
which toxic-by-inhalation hazardous materials (“TIH”) are
transported.  Implementation of a PTC system is designed to prevent
train-to-train collisions, over-speed derailments, incursions into established
work-zone limits, and a train from diverting off-course onto another set of
tracks through a switch left in a wrong position.  Significant capital
costs are anticipated with the implementation of PTC as well as ongoing
operating expenses.
    
      Also
in 2008, the TSA issued rules that apply to the transportation of certain kinds
of highly hazardous materials.  The new rules place significant new
security and safety requirements on passenger and freight railroad carriers,
rail transit systems, and facilities that ship hazardous materials by
rail.
    
    
      
        
           
        
        
          6
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
          
            CSX
CORPORATION
            PART
I
            
          
        
      
    
     
    Competition
     
    The business environment in which the
Company operates is highly competitive.  Shippers typically select
transportation providers that offer the most compelling combination of service
and price.  Service requirements, both in terms of transit time and
reliability, vary by shipper and commodity. As a result, the Company’s primary
competition varies by commodity, geographic location and mode of available
transportation.
    
    CSXT’s
primary rail competitor is Norfolk Southern Railway, which operates throughout
much of CSX’s territory.   Other railroads also operate in parts of
CSXT’s  territory.  Depending on the specific market,
competing railroads and deregulated motor carriers may exert pressure on price
and service levels.  For further discussion on the risk of competition
to the Company, see Item 1A. Risk Factors beginning on page 8.
    
    Other
Information
    
    CSX makes available on its website
www.csx.com,
free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Additionally, the Company has posted
its code of ethics on its website, which is also available to any shareholder
who requests it.  This Form 10-K and other SEC filings made by CSX are
also accessible through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
    
    CSX has included the certifications of
its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”)
regarding the Company’s public disclosure required by Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“the Act”) as Exhibit 31, as well as Section 906 of
the Act as Exhibit 32 to this Form 10-K report. Additionally, on October 23,
2008, CSX filed its annual CEO certification with the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”) confirming CSX’s compliance with the NYSE Corporate Governance Listing
Standards.  The CEO was not aware of any violations of these standards
by CSX as of January 30, 2009 (the latest practicable date that is closest to
the filing of this Form 10-K).  This certification is also included as
Exhibit 99 to this Form 10-K.
    
    The
Company’s annual average number of employees was approximately 34,000 in 2008,
which includes approximately 29,000 union employees.  Most of the
Company’s employees provide or support transportation services.  The
information set forth in Item 6. Selected Financial Data is incorporated herein
by reference.
    
    For
additional information concerning business conducted by the Company during 2008,
see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -
Note 17 Business Segments.
    
    
    
      
        
           
        
        
          7
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
          
            CSX
CORPORATION
            PART
I
            
          
        
      
    
    
    Item 1A.  Risk Factors
    
    The
following risk factors could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, and could cause those
results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the Company’s
forward-looking statements.  Although the risks described below are
those that management believes are the most significant, these are not the only
risks facing the Company.  Additional risks and uncertainties not
currently known to the Company or that the Company currently does not deem to be
material also may materially impact the Company’s financial condition, results
of operations or liquidity.
    
    New
legislation or regulatory changes could impact the Company’s earnings or
restrict its ability to independently negotiate prices.
    
    Political
changes could result in legislative or regulatory changes that impose new
burdens on the Company, increase operating costs, reduce operating efficiency or
limit revenues.  Legislation passed by Congress or new regulations
issued by federal agencies can significantly affect the revenues, costs and
profitability of the Company’s business.  The railroad industry is
vulnerable to economic re-regulation by Congress, which could have a significant
negative impact on the Company’s ability to determine prices for rail services
and would likely force a reduction in capital spending.  For example,
statutes imposing price or labor constraints or affecting rail-to-rail
competition could adversely affect the Company’s profitability.  Also,
additional regulations related to environmental matters such as greenhouse gas
emissions could increase the Company’s operating costs or reduce operating
efficiencies or impact the business of CSX customers.
    
    Government
regulation and compliance risks may affect the Company’s operations and
financial results.
    
    The
Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies, including
the STB, the FRA and other state and federal regulatory agencies for a variety
of economic, health, safety, labor, environmental, tax, legal and other
matters.  The FRA regulates several of the Company’s core operations
including track and mechanical equipment standards, signaling systems,
inspection of grade crossing warning devices, locomotive engineer certifications
and employee injury reporting, among other areas.
    
    In
addition, the DOT and DHS have crafted rules requiring new safety measures and
security protocols.  These regulations will increase operational costs
and affect freight transportation routes.  Legislation recently
enacted by Congress will also increase compliance risks.  The Rail
Safety Improvement Act of 2008 imposes limits on employee work hours and may
result in higher operating costs for the Company.
    
    Noncompliance
with applicable laws or regulations could erode public confidence in the Company
and can subject the Company to fines, penalties and other legal or regulatory
sanctions.  In addition, a change in these regulations could increase
operating costs and reduce operating efficiency.
    
    
    
      
        
           
        
        
          8
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
          
            CSX
CORPORATION
            PART
I
            
          
        
      
    
    
    General
economic conditions could negatively impact demand for commodities and other
freight.
     
    The
current economic environment has impacted demand for rail and intermodal
services.  Further decline in general domestic and global economic
conditions that affect demand for the commodities that the Company carries or
that lead to bankruptcies or liquidations of one or more large customers of the
Company could reduce the Company’s revenues, increase its bad debt expense,
reduce its ability to make capital expenditures or have other adverse
effects.  Because certain of the Company’s customers are in the
automotive, housing and other industries, continued weakness or further
downturns in these sectors could adversely affect the Company’s operating
results.
     
    Weaknesses
in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact the Company’s access
to capital.
     
    The
Company is in a capital intensive industry that requires continuing
infrastructure improvements and acquisition of capital assets.  The
Company from time to time accesses the credit markets for additional
liquidity.  Credit markets have recently experienced adverse
conditions, increasing the costs associated with issuing debt.  These
conditions may further increase the Company’s funding costs, limit the Company’s
ability to sell debt securities on acceptable terms and impede the Company’s
attempts to revise its current debt arrangements as contemplated.
     
    CSXT,
as a common carrier by rail, is required by law to transport hazardous
materials, which could expose the Company to significant costs and
claims.
    
    Under federal regulations, CSXT is
required to transport hazardous materials under its common carrier
obligation.  A train accident involving the transport of hazardous
materials could result in significant claims arising from personal injury,
property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation.  Such
claims could exceed existing insurance coverage or insurance may not continue to
be available at commercially reasonable rates.  CSXT is also required
to comply with regulations regarding the handling of hazardous
materials.
    
    In
November 2008, the TSA issued final rules placing significant new security and
safety requirements on passenger and freight railroad carriers, rail transit
systems, and facilities that ship hazardous materials by
rail.  Noncompliance with these rules can subject the Company to
significant penalties and could be a factor in litigation arising out of a train
accident.  Finally, legislation preventing the transport of hazardous
materials through certain cities could result in network congestion and increase
the length of haul for hazardous substances, which could result in increased
operating costs, reduced operating efficiency or increase the risk of an
accident involving the transport of hazardous materials.
    
    
      
        
           
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
          
            CSX
CORPORATION
            PART
I
            
          
        
      
    
    
     
    Future
acts of terrorism, war or regulatory changes to combat the risk of terrorism may
cause significant disruptions in the Company’s operations.
     
    Terrorist
attacks, along with any government response to those attacks, may adversely
affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or
liquidity.  CSXT’s rail lines or other key infrastructure may be
direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror or war.  This
risk could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs
and liabilities and decreased revenues.  In addition, premiums charged
for some or all of the insurance coverage currently maintained by the Company
could increase dramatically or the coverage may no longer be
available.
     
    Furthermore,
in response to the heightened risk of terrorism, federal, state and local
governmental bodies are proposing and, in some cases, have adopted various
legislation and regulations relating to security issues that impact the
transportation industry.  For example, the DHS adopted regulations
that require freight railroads to implement additional security protocols when
transporting hazardous materials.  Complying with these regulations
could continue to increase the Company’s operating costs and reduce operating
efficiencies.
    
    The
Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations that may result in
significant costs.
    
    The Company’s operations are subject to
wide-ranging federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations
concerning, among other things, emissions into the air,  discharges
into water, the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and
other materials and clean-up of hazardous material or petroleum
releases.  In certain circumstances, environmental liability can
extend to formerly owned or operated properties, leased properties, adjacent
properties and properties owned by third parties or Company predecessors, as
well as to properties currently owned and used by the Company.
    
    The
Company has been, and may be subject to, allegations or findings to the effect
that it has violated, or is strictly liable under, environmental laws or
regulations, and such violations can result in the Company’s incurring fines,
penalties or costs relating to the clean-up of environmental contamination. Although the Company
believes it has appropriately recorded current and long-term liabilities for
known future environmental costs, it could incur significant costs that exceed
reserves or require unanticipated cash expenditures as a result of any of the
foregoing and may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and
remediate known, unknown or future environmental contamination.
    
    
      
        
           
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
          
            CSX
CORPORATION
            PART
I
            
          
        
      
    
    
     
    Severe
weather or other natural occurrences could result in significant business
interruptions and expenditures in excess of available insurance
coverage.
     
    The
Company’s operations may be affected by external factors such as severe weather
and other natural occurrences, including floods, fires, hurricanes and
earthquakes.  Insurance maintained by the Company to protect against
loss of business and other related consequences resulting from these natural
occurrences is subject to limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of
the risk insured against. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of
the Company’s damages or damages to others and this insurance may not continue
to be available at commercially reasonable rates. Even with insurance, if any
natural occurrence leads to a catastrophic interruption of service, the Company
may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption in
operations.
     
    The
Company may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in
significant expenditures.
     
    The
Company is subject to various existing lawsuits, including putative class action
litigation alleging violations of antitrust laws and potential unknown
litigation.  The Company may experience material judgments or incur
significant costs to defend any such lawsuits.  Additionally, existing
litigation may suffer adverse developments not currently reflected in the
Company’s reserve estimates as the ultimate outcome of existing litigation is
subject to numerous factors outside of the Company’s control.  While
the Company uses its best efforts to evaluate existing litigation, the final
judgments or settlement amounts may differ materially from the recorded
reserves.
     
    Increases
in the number and magnitude of property damage and personal injury claims could
adversely affect the Company’s operating results.
    
    The Company faces inherent business
risk from exposure to property damage, occupational injury claims, and personal
injury claims resulting from train accidents, worker injury claims under the
Federal Employers’ Liability Act (“FELA”) and claims from outside parties
resulting from the Company’s operations.  The Company could experience
material property damage, personal injury or occupational claims in the future
and it may incur significant costs to defend such claims.
     
    Existing claims may suffer adverse
developments not currently reflected in reserve estimates, as the ultimate
outcome of existing claims is subject to numerous factors outside of the
Company’s control. Although the Company establishes reserves and maintains
insurance to cover these types of claims, final amounts determined to be due on
any outstanding matters may differ materially from the recorded reserves and
exceed the Company’s insurance coverage.
     
    
    
      
        
           
        
        
          11
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
          
            CSX
CORPORATION
            PART
I
            
          
        
      
    
    
     
    Failure
to complete negotiations on collective bargaining agreements could result in
strikes and/or work stoppages.
     
    Most of CSXT's employees are
represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Generally speaking, these agreements are bargained nationally by the National
Carriers Committee.  In the rail industry, negotiations have generally
taken place over a number of years and previously have not resulted in any
extended work stoppages.  Over the last 30 years, there were only six
days of work stoppage related to labor disputes over national
handling.  If the Company is unable to negotiate acceptable
agreements, it could result in strikes by the affected workers, loss of business
and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to
union members.  Under the Railway Labor Act’s procedures (which
include mediation, cooling-off periods and the possibility of Presidential
intervention), neither party may take action until the procedures are
exhausted.
    
    The
Company faces competition from other transportation providers.
    
    The
Company experiences competition in the form of pricing, service, reliability and
other factors from other transportation providers including railroads and motor
carriers that operate similar routes across its service area and, to a less
significant extent, barges, ships and pipelines. Transportation providers such
as motor carriers and barges utilize public rights-of-way that are built and
maintained by governmental entities while CSXT and other railroads must build
and maintain rail networks using largely internal resources. Any future
improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the
cost of alternative modes of transportation, or legislation providing for less
stringent size or weight restrictions on trucks, could negatively impact the
Company’s competitive position.
    
    Network
congestion could have a negative impact on service and operating
efficiency.
    
    The
Company may experience rail network difficulties related to network capacity,
unplanned increases in demand for rail service, increased passenger activities
in capacity-constrained areas or regulatory changes impacting when CSXT can
transport freight or service routes that could have a negative effect on the
Company’s operational fluidity, leading to deterioration of service, asset
utilization and overall efficiency. 
    
    The
Company relies on the stability and availability of its technology systems to
operate its business.
    
    The
Company relies on information technology in all aspects of its
business.  A significant disruption or failure of the Company’s
information technology systems, including computer hardware, software and
communications equipment, could result in a service interruption, safety
failure, security breach or other operational difficulties.  While the
Company has taken steps to mitigate these risks, the performance and reliability
of its technology systems are critical to its ability to operate and compete
effectively.
    
    
    
      
        
           
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
          
            CSX
CORPORATION
            PART
I
            
          
        
      
    
    
    Disruption
of the supply chain could negatively impact operating efficiency and increase
costs.
    
    The
capital intensive nature and sophistication of core rail equipment (including
rolling stock equipment, locomotives, rail, and ties) limits the number of
railroad equipment suppliers.  If any of the current manufacturers
stops production or experiences a supply shortage, the Company could experience
a significant cost increase or material shortage.  In addition, a few
critical railroad suppliers are foreign.  Adverse developments in
international relations, new trade regulations, disruptions in international
shipping, or increases in global demand could make procurement of these supplies
more difficult or increase the Company’s operating costs.
    
    Additionally,
if a fuel supply shortage were to arise, whether due to the Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries or other production restrictions, lower refinery
outputs, a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, the Company would be
negatively impacted.
    
    
      
        
           
        
        
          13
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
          
            CSX
CORPORATION
            PART
I
            
          
        
      
    
    
    Item 1B