Item 1A.  Risk FactorsThe statements in this section describe the most significant risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operation and the trading price of our debt or equity securities.In addition, this section sets forth statements which constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "estimates," "anticipates," "predicts," "projects," "plans," "expects," "intends," "target," "forecast," "believes," "seeks," "could," "should," "may" and "will" or the negative versions thereof and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties, potentially inaccurate assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Annual Report. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the Shred-it partnership's ability to promptly and effectively integrate the Cintas document shredding business with Shred-it's document shredding business, the Shred-it partnership's ability to realize any synergies from the combination of the Cintas document shredding business with Shred-it's document shredding business, the ability to successfully explore strategic opportunities for the Cintas global document storage and imaging business, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy and fuel costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, disruptions caused by the inaccessibility of computer systems data, the initiation or outcome of litigation, investigations or other proceedings, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic or extraordinary events, the amount and timing of repurchases of our Common Stock, if any, changes in federal and state tax and labor laws, the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service and the ultimate impact of the Affordable Care Act. Cintas undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements or to otherwise update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events, circumstances or any other unanticipated developments arising after the date on which such statements are made, except otherwise required by law. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently not known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also harm our business.Negative global economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance.Negative economic conditions, in North America and our other markets, may adversely affect our financial performance. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could adversely affect the demand for Cintas' products and services. Increases in labor costs, including the cost to provide employee-partner related healthcare benefits, labor shortages or shortages of skilled labor, higher material costs for items such as fabrics and textiles, the inability to obtain insurance coverage at cost-effective rates, higher interest rates, inflation, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could increase our costs of rental uniforms and ancillary products and other services and selling and administrative expenses. As a result, these factors could adversely affect our sales and consolidated results of operations.Increased competition could adversely affect our financial performance.We operate in highly competitive industries and compete with national, regional and local providers. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in these industries. If existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, Cintas may be required to lower prices, which would hurt its results of operations. Cintas' competitors also generally compete with Cintas for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price for acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. In addition, our customers and prospects may decide to perform certain services in-house instead of outsourcing these services to us. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our sales and consolidated results of operations.5An inability to open new, cost effective operating facilities may adversely affect our expansion efforts.We plan to expand our presence in existing markets and enter new markets. The opening of new operating facilities is necessary to gain the capacity required for this expansion. Our ability to open new operating facilities depends on our ability to identify attractive locations, negotiate leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms, identify and obtain adequate utility and water sources and comply with environmental regulations, zoning laws and other similar factors. Any inability to effectively identify and manage these items may adversely affect our expansion efforts, and, consequently, adversely affect our financial performance.Risks associated with our acquisition practice could adversely affect our results of operations.Historically, a portion of our growth has come from acquisitions. We continue to evaluate opportunities for acquiring businesses that may supplement our internal growth. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate and purchase suitable acquisitions. In addition, the success of any acquisition depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired company. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management's attention and our financial and other resources. Although we conduct due diligence investigations prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will discover or adequately protect against all material liabilities of an acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator. The failure to successfully integrate these acquired businesses or to discover such liabilities could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations.Increases in fuel and energy costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.The price of fuel and energy needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, limits on refining capacities, natural disasters and environmental concerns. Increases in fuel and energy costs could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations.Unionization campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations.Cintas has been and could continue to be the target of a unionization campaign by several unions. These unions have attempted to pressure Cintas into surrendering its employees' rights to a government-supervised election by unilaterally accepting union representation. We will continue to vigorously oppose any unionization campaign and defend our employees' rights to a government-supervised election. Unionization campaigns could be materially disruptive to our business and could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations.Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our results of operations.The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. We require all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic stability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial stability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, U.S. and foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We earn revenue, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Canadian dollar, British pound, and the euro. In fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, revenue denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar represented less than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenue, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies, particularly in the event of significant increases in foreign currency revenue, will impact our revenue and operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. This impact could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations.6Failure to comply with federal and state regulations to which we are subject could result in penalties or costs that could adversely affect our results of operations.   Our business is subject to complex and stringent state and federal regulations, including employment laws and regulations, minimum wage requirements, overtime requirements, working condition requirements, citizenship requirements, transportation and other laws and regulations.  In particular, we are subject to the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Transportation, or USDOT, and under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or OSHA.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with the USDOT, OSHA and other laws and regulations to which we are subject.  Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business.  The impact of new laws and regulations cannot be predicted. Compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. Any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines by government authorities, payment of damages to private litigants, or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to service customers and our consolidated results of operations.   We are subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We discuss these lawsuits and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail under the caption "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" and in Note 13 entitled Litigation and Other Contingencies of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Certain of these lawsuits or potential future lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability and expense material to our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations.Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs that adversely affect our results of operations.Our operating locations are subject to environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing discharges of pollutants to the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. The operation of our businesses entails risks under environmental laws and regulations. We could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under these laws and regulations. We are currently involved in a limited number of remedial investigations and actions at various locations. While based on information currently known to us, we believe that we maintain adequate reserves with respect to these matters, our liability could exceed forecasted amounts, and the imposition of additional clean-up obligations or the discovery of additional contamination at these or other sites could result in significant additional costs which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Under applicable environmental laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be required to pay the costs of removing or remediating hazardous materials located on or emanating from property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of or was responsible for the presence of such hazardous materials. While we regularly engage in environmental due diligence in connection with acquisitions, we can give no assurance that locations that have been acquired or leased have been operated in compliance with environmental laws and regulations during prior periods or that future uses or conditions will not make us liable under these laws or expose us to third-party actions, including tort suits.We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. Disruptions in the availability of computer systems, or privacy breaches involving computer systems, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales, results of operations and reputation and expose us to litigation risk.Our businesses rely on our computer systems to provide customer information, process customer transactions and provide other general information necessary to manage our businesses.  We have an active disaster recovery plan in place that is frequently reviewed and tested.  However, our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption due to system conversions, power outages, computer or telecommunication failures, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes and usage errors by our employees.  Although we believe that we have adopted appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology-related and other potential disruptions, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays and interruptions in our ability to provide products and services to our customers. Any disruption caused by the unavailability of our computer systems could adversely affect our sales, could require us to make a significant investment to fix or replace them and, therefore, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, cyber-security attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches 7that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data.  If the network of security controls, policy enforcement mechanisms and monitoring systems to address these threats to our technology fails, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected company, customer, or employee information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, or other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks could result in financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability and damage to our reputation.Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our business and stock price.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the consolidated financial statement preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud. This may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.We may experience difficulties in attracting and retaining competent personnel in key positions.We believe that a key component of our success is our corporate culture which has been imparted by management throughout our corporate organization. This factor, along with our entire operation, depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competitive pressures within and outside our industry may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain key employees which could adversely affect our businesses.Unexpected events could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations.Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at facilities, natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes, war or terrorist activities, unplanned outages, supply disruptions, failure of equipment or systems or changes in laws and/or regulations impacting our businesses, could adversely affect our results of operations. These events could result in customer disruption, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities or the temporary disruption of information systems.We may recognize impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets and our long-lived assets for impairment when required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require that we record an impairment charge if circumstances indicate that the asset carrying values exceed their estimated fair values. The estimated fair value of these assets is impacted by general economic conditions in the locations in which we operate. Deterioration in these general economic conditions may result in: declining revenue which can lead to excess capacity and declining operating cash flow; reductions in management's estimates for future revenue and operating cash flow growth; increases in borrowing rates and other deterioration in factors that impact our weighted average cost of capital; and deteriorating real estate values. If our assessment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets indicates an impairment of the carrying value for which we recognize an impairment charge, this may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations.Within our Document Management business, we handle customers' confidential information. Our failure to protect our customers' confidential information against security breaches could damage our reputation, harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations.Our services involve the handling of our customers' confidential information, in both paper and electronic formats, and the subsequent destruction or retention of this information. Any compromise of security, accidental loss or theft of customer data in our possession could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of liability, which could harm our business and adversely impact our consolidated results of operations.8The effects of credit market volatility and changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.Our operating cash flows, combined with access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity. However, deterioration in the global credit markets may limit our ability to access credit markets, which could adversely affect our liquidity and/or increase our cost of borrowing. In addition, credit market deterioration and its actual or perceived effects on our results of operations and financial condition, along with deterioration in general economic conditions, may increase the likelihood that the major independent credit agencies will downgrade our credit ratings, which could increase our cost of borrowing. Increases in our cost of borrowing could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations.We may encounter difficulties with the newly-formed partnership with Shred-it and could fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction.On March 19, 2014, we announced the contribution of our shredding business to the newly created partnership with Shred-it.  The transaction closed on April 30, 2014. Partnerships involve risks, including difficulties in the combination of operations, services, and personnel, and may divert management’s attention from business operations. The inability of the partnership to successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits the entity to achieve the full revenue and cost synergies anticipated as result of the transaction could adversely impact the value of our investment. The loss of revenue due to the creation of the partnership may have a dilutive impact that we may be unable to offset. We may also incur unexpected costs, including post-closing impairment charges, litigation, and other liabilities. As a minority partner in the partnership, our ability to influence our partner may be limited, and non-alignment of interests on various strategic decisions in the partnership may adversely impact our business. For example, our partner may:  (i) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; (ii) take actions contrary to our policies or objectives; (iii) undergo a change of control; (iv) experience financial and other difficulties; or (v) be unable or unwilling to fulfill its obligations under the agreements governing the partnership, which may affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may not be successful in managing the risks that we encounter in the creation of the partnership and these risks could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations.9Item 1B