ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS        


        Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or
prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

Please
be aware that additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business operations. 


<A
NAME="dc45501_risks_affecting_our_business"> 
 
  Risks Affecting Our Business        

 Increasing competition, including product substitution, continues to cause access line losses, which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our
operating results and financial condition.  

        We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. In addition to
competition from larger national telecommunications providers, we are facing increasing competition from a variety of other sources, including cable and satellite companies, wireless providers,
broadband companies, resellers, sales agents and facilities-based providers using their own networks as well as those leasing parts of our network. In addition, regulatory developments over the past
several years have generally increased competitive pressures on our business. Due to some of these and other factors, we continue to lose access lines. 

        Some
of our current and potential competitors (i) offer a more comprehensive range of communications products and services, (ii) have market presence, engineering and
technical capabilities, and financial and other resources greater than ours, (iii) own larger or more diverse networks with greater transmission capacity or other advantages,
(iv) conduct operations or raise capital at a lower cost than us, (v) are subject to less regulation, (vi) offer greater online content or (vii) have substantially stronger
brand names. Consequently, these competitors may be better equipped to provide more attractive offerings, to charge lower prices for their products and services, to develop and expand their
communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the marketing
and sale of their products and services. 

        Competition
could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and market share, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our
services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects,
(v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. 

        We
are continually taking steps to respond to these competitive pressures, but these efforts may not be successful. Our operating results and financial condition would be adversely
affected if these initiatives are unsuccessful or insufficient and if we otherwise are unable to sufficiently stem or offset our continuing access line losses and our revenue declines significantly
without corresponding cost reductions. If this occurred, our ability to service debt and pay other obligations would also be adversely affected. 


 Rapid changes in technology and markets could require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels, and any inability to respond
to those changes could reduce our market share and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  

        The communications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, many of which are reducing demand for our traditional
voice services or are enabling our current customers to reduce or bypass use of our networks. Similarly, the information technology services industry is experiencing rapid changes in technologies.
Further technological change could require us to expend capital or other resources in excess of currently contemplated levels, or to forgo the development or provision of products or services that
others can provide more efficiently. If we are not able to develop new products and services to keep pace with technological advances, or if those products and services are not widely accepted by
customers, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and our market share could decline. Any inability to effectively respond to changes in technology and markets could 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

also
adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. 


        For
additional information on the risks of increased expenditures, see "Risk Factors—Risks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources—Our business requires us
to incur substantial capital and operating expenses, which reduces our available free cash flow." 

 Our legacy services continue to experience declining revenues, and our efforts to offset these declines may not be successful.  

        The telephone industry has experienced a decline in access lines and network access revenues, which, coupled with the other changes
resulting from competitive, technological and regulatory developments, continue to place downward pressure on the revenues we generate from our legacy services. 

        We
have taken a variety of steps to counter these declines, including:



•an increased focus on selling a broader range of higher-growth strategic services, which are described in detail in
Item 1 and 7 of this report; 
•an increased focus on serving a broader range of business, governmental and wholesale customers;  
•greater use of service bundles; and 
•acquisitions to increase our scale and strengthen our product offerings, including new products and services provided by
our Savvis operations. 


        However,
some of these strategic services generate lower profit margins than our traditional services, and some can be expected to experience slowing growth as increasing numbers of our
existing or potential customers subscribe to these newer products. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from our new offerings will offset revenue losses associated from reduced
sales of our legacy products. Similarly, we cannot assure you that our new service offerings will be as successful as anticipated, or that we will be able to continue to grow through acquisitions. In
addition, our reliance on third parties to provide certain of these strategic services could constrain our flexibility, as described further below. 

 If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage
in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed.  

        Over 38% of our employees are members of various bargaining units represented by the Communications Workers of America and the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Approximately 12,000, or 26%, of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expired October 6, 2012. We are currently
negotiating the terms of new agreements. In the meantime, the predecessor agreements have been extended, and the applicable unions have agreed to provide us with at least twenty-four hour
advance notice before terminating those predecessor agreements. 

        We
may be unable to reach new agreements, and union employees may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services
and result in increased cost to us. In addition, new labor agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations in the future. To the
extent they contain benefit provisions, these agreements may also limit our flexibility to change benefits in response to industry or competitive changes. In particular, the
post-employment benefits provided under these agreements could cause us to incur costs not faced by many of our competitors, which could ultimately hinder our competitive position. 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively adjust to changes in our business, and will further suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations.  

        The above-described changes in our industry have placed a higher premium on marketing, technological, engineering and provisioning
skills. Our recent acquisitions also significantly changed the composition of our markets and product mix. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to retrain our staff to acquire or
strengthen skills necessary to address these changes, and, where necessary, to attract and retain new personnel that possess these skills. 

 Unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.  

        Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the unstable economy and credit market, could negatively affect our business.
Worldwide economic growth has been sluggish since 2008, and many experts believe that a confluence of factors in the United States, Europe, Asia and developing countries may result in a prolonged
period of economic downturn, slow growth or economic uncertainty. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of these general economic conditions, they could adversely affect the
affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and
services. These conditions impact, in particular, our ability to sell discretionary products or services to business customers that are under pressure to reduce costs or to governmental customers that
have suffered recent budget cuts. Any one or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to continue declining. Also, our customers may encounter financial hardships or may not be able to
obtain adequate access to credit, which could negatively impact their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, as discussed further below, unstable economic and credit markets may preclude
us from refinancing maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For
these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to raise capital. 

 We could be harmed by security breaches, damages or other significant disruptions or failures of our networks, IT infrastructure or related systems, or of those we operate
for certain of our customers.  

        To be successful, we will need to continue providing our customers with a high-capacity, reliable and secure network. We
face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach or significant disruption of our IT infrastructure and related systems (including our billing systems). As a communications and IT company, we
face an added risk that a security breach or other significant disruption of our public networks or IT infrastructure and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of
our business and governmental customers could lead to material interruptions or curtailments of service. Moreover, due to the nature of our customers and services, we face a heightened risk that a
security breach or disruption could result in unauthorized access to our customers' proprietary or classified information on our public networks or internal systems or the systems that we operate and
maintain for certain of our customers. 

        We
make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and systems and maintain contingency plans in the event of security breaches or other
system disruptions. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that our security efforts and measures will prevent unauthorized access to our systems, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client
information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses, malware, or other forms of cyber attacks or similar events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud, malice or
sabotage on the part of employees, third parties or other nations, or could result from accidental technological failure. Similar to other large telecommunications companies, we have been subject to a
variety of security breaches and cyber attacks, although to date none of these have resulted in a material adverse effect on our 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

operating
results or financial condition. We cannot assure you, however, that future security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging, especially in light of the growing frequency
and sophistication of cyber attacks and intrusions. We may be unable to anticipate all potential types of attacks or intrusions or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative
measures, and any resulting damages could be material. 

        Additional
risks to our network and infrastructure include:



•power losses or physical damage, whether caused by fire, adverse weather conditions, terrorism or otherwise;  
•capacity limitations; 
•software and hardware defects or malfunctions; 
•programming, processing and other human error; and 
•other disruptions that are beyond our control. 


        Network
disruptions, security breaches and other significant failures of the above-described systems could:



•disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations or those of certain of our
customers; 
•result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary,
confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our customers' end-users, including trade secrets, which others could use for competitive, disruptive,
destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; 
•require significant management attention or financial resources to remedy the damages that result or to change our
systems, including expenses to repair systems, add new personnel or develop additional protective systems; 
•subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, fines, penalties, termination or other remedies, particularly
with respect to service standards set by state regulatory commissions; or 
•result in a loss of business, damage our reputation among our customers and the public generally, subject us to additional
regulatory scrutiny or expose us to litigation. 


        Likewise,
our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new
service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings,
increased acquisition integration costs, service or billing interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. 

        Any
or all of the foregoing developments could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

 Increases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers.  

        Video streaming services and peer-to-peer file sharing applications use significantly more bandwidth than
traditional Internet activity such as web browsing and email. As utilization rates and availability of these services continue to grow, our high-speed Internet customers may use much more
bandwidth than in the past. If this occurs, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity in order to avoid service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

transmission
speeds for our customers. Alternatively, we could choose to implement network management practices to reduce the network capacity available to bandwidth-intensive activities during
certain times in market areas experiencing congestion, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and attract customers in affected markets. While we believe demand for these services may
drive high-speed Internet customers to pay for faster broadband speeds, we may not be able to recover the costs of the necessary network investments. This could result in an adverse impact
to our operating margins, results of operations and financial condition. 

 We may need to defend ourselves against claims that we infringe upon others' intellectual property rights, or we may need to seek third-party licenses to expand our product
offerings.  

        From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or
are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. Responding to these claims may require us to expend significant
time and money defending our use of affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay
damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more
of our products or services, which could significantly and adversely affect the way we conduct business. 

        Similarly,
from time to time, we may need to obtain the right to use certain patents or other intellectual property from third parties to be able to offer new products and services. If
we cannot license or otherwise obtain rights to use any required technology from a third party on reasonable terms, our ability to offer new products and services may be restricted, made more costly
or delayed. 

 Our reseller and sales agency arrangements expose us to a number of risks, one or more of which may adversely affect our business and operating results.  

        We rely on reseller and sales agency arrangements with other companies to provide some of the services that we sell to our customers,
including video services and wireless products and services. If we fail to extend or renegotiate these arrangements as they expire from time to time or if these other companies fail to fulfill their
contractual obligations to us or our customers, we may have difficulty finding alternative arrangements and our customers may experience disruptions to their services. In addition, as a reseller or
sales agent, we do not control the availability, retail price, design, function, quality, reliability, customer service or branding of these products and services, nor do we directly control all of
the marketing and promotion of these products and services. To the extent
that these other companies make decisions that negatively impact our ability to market and sell their products and services, our business plans and goals and our reputation could be negatively
impacted. If these reseller and sales agency arrangements are unsuccessful due to one or more of these risks, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. 


 Consolidation among other participants in the telecommunications industry may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our
operating results and financial condition.  

        The telecommunications industry has experienced substantial consolidation over the last couple of decades, and some of our competitors
have combined with other telecommunications providers, resulting in larger competitors that have greater financial and business resources and broader service offerings. Further consolidation could
increase competitive pressures, and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. 

26




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to
record a significant charge to earnings and reduce our stockholders' equity.  

        Under generally accepted accounting principles, intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently
whenever events or circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. If our intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record a
significant, non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined. 

 We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue paying dividends at the current rate.  

        Decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future dividend distributions will remain at all times entirely at the
discretion of our Board of Directors, which reserves the right to change or terminate our dividend practices at any time and for any reason. Based
on current circumstances, we plan to continue our current dividend practices. However, you should be aware that these practices are reviewed periodically and are subject to change for reasons that may
include any of the following factors:



•we may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, stock
purchase plans, cash flows or financial position; 
•the effects of regulatory reform, including any changes to intercarrier compensation, Universal Service Fund or special
access rules; 
•our desire to maintain or improve the credit ratings on our debt; 
•the amount of dividends that we may distribute to our shareholders is subject to restrictions under Louisiana law and is
limited by restricted payment and leverage covenants in our credit facilities and, potentially, the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur; and  
•the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may distribute to us is subject to restrictions imposed by state law,
restrictions that have been or may be imposed by state regulators in connection with obtaining necessary approvals for our acquisitions, and restrictions imposed by the terms of credit facilities
applicable to certain subsidiaries and, potentially, the terms of any future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur. 


        Our
Board of Directors is free to change or suspend our dividend practices at any time. Our common shareholders should be aware that they have no contractual or other legal right to
dividends. 

 Our current dividend practices could limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities, repurchase stock or retire debt.  


        The current practice of our Board of Directors to continue to pay common share dividends in accordance with past practices reflects an
intention to distribute to our shareholders a substantial portion of our cash flow. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to apply to other transactions that could be beneficial
to our shareholders or debtholders, including stock buybacks, debt prepayments or capital expenditures that strengthen our business. In addition, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our
business through acquisitions or increased capital spending will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be
available to us at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. 

27




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 We rely on a limited number of key suppliers, vendors, landlords and other third parties to operate our business, as well as a limited number of financial institutions to
fund our revolving credit requirements.  

        We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. Our local
exchange carrier networks consist of central office and remote sites, all with advanced digital switches. If any of these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering or servicing
these network components on a timely basis, our operations could suffer significantly. To the extent that proprietary technology of a supplier is an integral component of our network, we may have
limited flexibility to purchase key network components from alternative suppliers. Similarly, our data center operations are materially reliant on leasing significant amounts of space from landlords
and substantial amounts of power from utility companies, and being able to renew these arrangements from time to time on favorable terms. In addition, we rely on a limited number of software vendors
to support our business management systems. In the event it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement supplies, services, space
or utilities on economically attractive terms, on a timely basis, or at all, which could increase costs or cause disruptions in our services. 

        We
rely on eighteen financial institutions to provide us with access to revolving credit under our credit facility. If one or more of these lenders default on their funding commitments,
our access to revolving credit could be adversely affected. 

 Portions of our property, plant and equipment are located on property owned by third parties.  

        Over the past few years, certain utilities, cooperatives and municipalities in certain of the states in which we operate have requested
significant rate increases for attaching our plant to their facilities. To the extent that these entities are successful in increasing the amount we pay for these attachments, our future operating
costs will increase. 

        In
addition, we rely on rights-of-way, colocation agreements and other authorizations granted by governmental bodies and other third parties to locate our cable,
conduit and other network equipment on their respective properties. If any of these authorizations terminate or lapse, our operations could be adversely affected. 

 We depend on key members of our senior management team.  

        Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of a limited number of senior officers. Competition for senior
management in our industry is intense and we may have difficulty retaining our current senior officers or attracting new ones in the event of terminations or resignations. For a discussion of similar
retention concerns relating to our recent mergers, please see the risks described below under the heading "Risk Factors—Risks Relating to our Recent Acquisitions." 

 As a holding company, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations.  

        As a holding company, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and
their distribution of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or other payments. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations,
including the payment of amounts owed under our long-term debt. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us or, subject
to limited exceptions for tax-sharing or cash management purposes, to make any funds available to us to repay our obligations, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. All of our
subsidiaries are subject to state law restrictions that limit the amount of dividends they can pay to us. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries may be restricted under loan agreements or regulatory
orders from transferring funds to us, including certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that may be 

28




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

paid
to us. Moreover, our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including
trade creditors. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report, for further
discussion on these matters. 


<A
NAME="dc45501_risks_relating_to_our_recent_acquisitions"> 
 
  Risks Relating to our Recent Acquisitions        

 We expect to incur substantial expenses related to the integration of Qwest and Savvis.  

        We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses in connection with the integration of Qwest's and Savvis'
business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures with our own. There are a large number of systems that need to be integrated, including billing, management information,
purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll and benefits, fixed asset, lease administration and regulatory compliance. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and integration
expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of our integration expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by
their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. 

 We may be unable to integrate successfully into Legacy CenturyLink our recently-acquired operations and realize the anticipated benefits of our recent acquisitions.  

        Our recent acquisitions involved the combination of companies which previously operated as independent public companies. We have
devoted, and will continue to devote, significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Legacy CenturyLink, Qwest and Savvis. We may encounter
difficulties in the integration process, including the following:



•the inability to successfully combine our businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost
savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the acquisitions, either due to technological challenges, personnel shortages, strikes or otherwise, any of which would result in the
anticipated benefits of the acquisitions not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame anticipated or at all; 
•lost sales as a result of customers deciding not to do business with the combined company;  
•the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating
personnel from multiple companies, while at the same time attempting to provide consistent, high-quality products and services under a unified culture;  
•the additional complexities of combining companies with different histories, regulatory restrictions, sales forces,
marketing strategies, product markets and customer bases; 
•the failure to retain key employees, some of whom could be critical to integrating or expanding the companies;  
•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or regulatory conditions associated with the acquisitions;
and 
•performance shortfalls at one or all of the companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by
integrating the companies' operations. 


        For
all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or
inconsistencies in our products, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees
or to achieve the 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

anticipated
benefits of our recent acquisitions, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. 

 The Qwest and Embarq acquisitions changed the profile of our local exchange markets to include more large urban areas, with which we have limited operating experience.  

        Prior to our acquisition of Embarq Corporation ("Embarq"), we provided local exchange telephone services to predominantly rural areas
and small to mid-size cities. Embarq's local exchange markets included Las Vegas, Nevada and suburbs of Orlando and several other large U.S. cities, and we have operated these more dense
markets only since mid-2009. Qwest's markets included Phoenix, Arizona, Denver, Colorado, Minneapolis—St. Paul, Minnesota, Seattle, Washington, Salt Lake City, Utah, and
Portland, Oregon. Compared to our legacy markets, these urban markets, on average, are substantially denser and experienced greater access line losses prior to being acquired by us. While we believe
our strategies and operating models developed serving rural and smaller markets can successfully be applied to larger markets, we cannot assure you of this. Our business, financial performance and
prospects could be harmed if our current strategies or operating models cannot be successfully applied to larger markets, or are required to be changed or abandoned to adjust to differences in these
larger markets. 

 We cannot assure you whether, when or in what amounts we will be able to use Qwest's net operating losses.  

        At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $4.7 billion of federal net operating losses, or NOLs, which relate primarily
to pre-acquisition losses of Qwest. These NOLs can be used to offset our future federal and certain taxable income. 


        The
acquisition of Qwest caused an "ownership change" under federal tax laws relating to the use of NOLs. As a result, these laws could limit our ability to use their NOLs and certain
other deferred tax attributes. Further limitations could apply if we are deemed to undergo an ownership change in the future. Despite this, we expect to use substantially all of these NOLs and certain
other deferred tax attributes as an offset to our federal future taxable income by 2015, although the timing of that use will depend upon the consolidated group's future earnings and future tax
circumstances. 

 Our acquisitions have increased our exposure to the risks of fluctuations in energy costs, power outages and availability of electrical resources.  


        Through the acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis, we have added a significant number of data center facilities, which are susceptible to
regional costs and supply of power and electrical power outages. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. However, we may not be able to limit our
exposure entirely even with these protections in place. In addition, our energy costs can fluctuate significantly or increase for a variety of reasons, including changes in legislation and regulation.
Several pending proposals designed to reduce greenhouse emissions could substantially increase our energy costs. As energy costs increase, we may not always be able to pass on the increased costs of
energy to our clients, which could harm our business. Power and cooling requirements at our data centers are also increasing as a result of the increasing power demands of today's servers. Since we
rely on third parties to provide our data centers with power sufficient to meet our clients' power needs, our data centers could have a limited or inadequate amount of electrical resources. Our
clients' demand for power may also exceed the power capacity in older data centers, which may limit our ability to fully utilize these data centers. This could adversely affect our relationships with
our clients and hinder our ability to run our data centers, which could harm our business. 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Our inability to renew data center leases, or renew on favorable terms, could have a negative impact on our financial results.  

        A significant majority of the data centers we acquired in the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions are leased and have lease terms that expire
between 2013 and 2031. The majority of these leases provide us with the opportunity to renew the lease at our option for periods generally ranging from five to ten years. Many of these renewal
options, however, provide that rent for the renewal period will be equal to the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal. If the fair market rental rates are significantly higher than our
current rental rates, we may be unable to offset these costs by charging more for our services, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Also, it is possible that a landlord may
insist on other financially unfavorable renewal terms or, where no further option to renew exists, elect not to renew altogether. 

 Our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis have increased our exposure to the risks of operating internationally.  

        Prior to acquiring Qwest on April 1, 2011, substantially all of our operations were historically conducted within the
continental United States. Although Qwest has historically conducted some operations overseas, the acquisition of Savvis on July 15, 2011, increased the importance of international operations
to our future operations, growth and prospects. 

        As
a result of our recent acquisitions, our foreign operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws
and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes
or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various foreign jurisdictions. Many of these foreign laws and regulations relating to communications
services are more restrictive than U.S. laws and regulations, particularly those relating to content distributed over the Internet. For example, the European Union has enacted a data retention system
that, once implemented by individual member states, will involve requirements to retain certain Internet protocol, or IP, data that could have an impact on our operations in Europe. Moreover, national
regulatory frameworks that are consistent with the policies and requirements of the World Trade Organization have only recently been, or are still being, enacted in many countries. Accordingly, many
countries are still in the early stages of providing for and adapting to a liberalized telecommunications market. As a result, in these markets we may encounter more protracted and difficult
procedures to obtain licenses necessary to provide the full set of products we offer. 

        In
addition to these international regulatory risks, some of the other risks inherent in conducting business internationally include:



•tax, licensing, currency, political or other business restrictions or requirements;  
•import and export restrictions; 
•longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; 
•additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, as well as other anti-corruption laws; 
•fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 
•the ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; and  
•challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations. 


        Any
one or more of these factors could adversely affect our international operations. 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Moreover,
in order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, it is frequently necessary or required to establish joint ventures, strategic alliances or marketing
arrangements with local operators, partners or agents. Reliance on local operators, partners or agents could expose us to the risk of being unable to control the scope or quality of our overseas
services or products, or being held liable under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws for actions taken by our strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents
may not themselves be subject to the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation or prospects. 

 Any additional future acquisitions by us would subject us to additional business, operating and financial risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could
adversely impact our capital structure or financial position.  

        From time to time in the future we may pursue other acquisition opportunities. To the extent we acquire a business that is highly
leveraged or is otherwise subject to a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the
possible merits or risks of any particular business or assets that we may acquire. In addition, the financing of any future acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure or
financial position, as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional securities or the borrowing of additional funds. Except as required by law or applicable securities exchange
listing standards, we do not expect to ask our shareholders to vote on any proposed acquisition. Moreover, we generally do not announce our acquisitions until we have entered into a preliminary or
definitive agreement. 

<A
NAME="dc45501_risks_relating_to_legal_and_regulatory_matters"> 
 
  Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters        

 Any adverse outcome of the KPNQwest litigation, or other material litigation of Qwest, Savvis or CenturyLink could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition
and operating results, on the trading price of our securities and on our ability to access the capital markets.  

        As described in Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of
this report, the KPNQwest matters present material and significant risks to us. In the aggregate, the plaintiffs in the KPNQwest matters seek billions of dollars in damages. We continue to defend
against these matters vigorously and are currently unable to provide any estimate as to the timing of their resolution. 

        We
can give no assurance as to the impacts on our financial results or financial condition that may ultimately result from these matters. The ultimate outcomes of these matters are still
uncertain, and substantial settlements or judgments in these matters could have a significant impact on us. The magnitude of such settlements or judgments resulting from these matters could materially
and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to meet our debt obligations, potentially impacting our credit ratings, our ability to access capital markets and our compliance with debt
covenants. In addition, the magnitude of any such settlements or judgments may cause us to draw down significantly on our cash balances, which might force us to obtain additional financing or explore
other methods to generate cash. Such methods could include issuing additional debt securities or selling assets. 

        There
are other material proceedings pending against us, as described in the above-referenced Note 15. Depending on their outcome, any of these matters could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position or operating results. We can give you no assurances as to the impact of these matters on our operating results or financial condition. 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 We operate in a highly regulated industry and are therefore exposed to restrictions on our manner of doing business and a variety of claims relating to such regulation.  


        General. We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), which regulates interstate communications, and
state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. Generally, we must obtain and maintain certificates of authority from the FCC and regulatory bodies in most states where we offer
regulated services, and we are subject to numerous, and often quite detailed, requirements and interpretations under federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot ensure
that we are always considered to be in compliance with all these requirements at any single point in time. The agencies responsible for the enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations may
initiate inquiries or actions based on customer complaints or on their own initiative. 


        Regulation
of the telecommunications industry continues to change rapidly, and the regulatory environment varies substantially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Notwithstanding a recent
movement towards alternative regulation, a substantial portion of our local voice services revenue remains subject to FCC and state utility commission pricing regulation, which periodically exposes us
to pricing or earnings disputes and could expose us to unanticipated price declines. Interexchange carriers have filed complaints in various forums requesting reductions in our access rates. In
addition, several long distance providers are disputing amounts owed to us for carrying VoIP traffic, or traffic they claim to be VoIP traffic, and are refusing to pay such amounts. There can be no
assurance that future regulatory, judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with
regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations. 

         Risks associated with recent changes in federal regulation. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier
Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal
service funding to foster nationwide broadband coverage. This initial ruling provides for a multi-year transition over the next decade as intercarrier compensation charges are reduced,
universal service funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and subscriber line charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. We expect these changes will substantially
increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive in our wholesale markets segment, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue
streams. Several judicial challenges to the CAF order are pending and additional future challenges are possible, any of which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the
outcome of the FCC proceedings, various state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. Moreover, rulemaking designed to implement the order is not
complete, and several FCC proceedings relating to the order remain pending. For these and other reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings at this time. 


        In
addition, during the last few years Congress or the FCC has initiated various other changes, including (i) broadband stimulus projects, support funds and similar plans and
(ii) new "network neutrality" rules. The FCC is also considering changes in the regulation of special access services. Any of these recent or pending initiatives could adversely affect our
operations or financial results. 

         Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance. Regulations continue to create significant compliance costs for us. Challenges to our tariffs by
regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and, if successful, such challenges
could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers. Our business also may be impacted by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to regulations or
laws related to broadband deployment, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts, 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

enhancing
privacy, or addressing other issues that impact our business, including the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (which requires communications carriers to ensure that their
equipment, facilities, and services are able to facilitate authorized electronic surveillance), and laws governing local number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements.
We expect our compliance costs to increase if future laws or regulations continue to increase our obligations to assist other governmental agencies. 

         Risks posed by other regulations. All of our operations are also subject to a variety of environmental, safety, health and other governmental
regulations. We monitor our compliance with federal, state and local regulations governing the management, discharge and disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials. Although we
believe that we are in compliance with these regulations, our management, discharge or disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials might expose us to claims or actions that could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 

 Regulatory changes in the communications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition against us.  

        For over 15 years, Congress and the FCC have taken several steps that have resulted in increased competition among
communications service providers. Many of the FCC's regulations remain subject to judicial review and additional rulemakings, thus making it difficult to determine the ultimate impact of these changes
on us and our competitors. 

 "Net neutrality" legislation or regulation could limit our ability to operate our high-speed data business profitably and to manage our broadband facilities
efficiently.  

        In order to continue to provide quality high-speed data service at attractive prices, we believe we need the continued
flexibility to respond to changing consumer demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to invest in our networks. The FCC's "net neutrality" regulations could adversely impact our ability to
operate our high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades and implement network management practices that may be needed to continue to provide high quality
high-speed data services, and could therefore negatively impact our ability to compete effectively. 

 We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network.  

        The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on, stored or disseminated through their
networks is still unsettled. As such, we could be exposed to legal claims relating to content disseminated on our networks. Claims could challenge the accuracy of materials on our network, or could
involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy or copyright infringement. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our
exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. 

 We are subject to significant regulations that limit our flexibility.  

        As a diversified full service ILEC in most of our key markets, we have traditionally been subject to significant regulation that does
not apply to many of our competitors. This regulation imposes substantial compliance costs on us and restricts our ability to change rates, to compete and to respond rapidly to changing industry
conditions. As our business becomes increasingly competitive, regulatory disparities between us and our competitors could impede our ability to compete. 

 We are subject to franchising requirements that could impede our expansion opportunities.  

        We may be required to obtain from municipal authorities operating franchises to install or expand facilities. Some of these franchises
may require us to pay franchise fees. These franchising requirements 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

generally
apply to our fiber transport and CLEC operations, and to our facilities-based video services. These requirements could delay us in expanding our operations or increase the costs of providing
these services. 

 We are exposed to risks arising out of recent legislation affecting U.S. public companies.  


        Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and related regulations implemented thereunder, are increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some
activities more time consuming. Any failure to successfully or timely complete annual assessments of our internal controls required by Section 404 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in us. 


        For
a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see "Regulation" in Item 1of this report. 

<A
NAME="dc45501_risks_affecting_our_liquidity_and_capital_resources"> 
 
  Risks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources        

 Our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments.  


        We continue to carry significant debt. As of December 31, 2012, our consolidated debt was approximately $20.6 billion.
Approximately $2.1 billion of our debt securities come due over the next thirty-six months. While we currently believe that we will have the financial resources to meet or refinance
our obligations when they come due, we cannot fully anticipate our future financial condition or the condition of the credit markets or the economy. We may incur unexpected expenses or liabilities,
and we may have limited access to financing. 

        Our
significant levels of debt can adversely affect us in several other respects, including (i) limiting our ability to access the capital markets, (ii) exposing us to the
risk of credit rating downgrades, which would raise our borrowing costs and could further limit our access to capital, (iii) hindering our flexibility to plan for or react to changing market,
industry or economic conditions, (iv) limiting the amount of cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases or other uses, (v) making us more
vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases, and (vi) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. 

        The
effects of each of these factors could be intensified if we borrow more cash. We expect to periodically require financing to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Due to the
unstable economy and credit market, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at
all. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets) under a variety of circumstances, including
if revenues and cash provided by operations decline, if economic conditions weaken, if competitive pressures increase, if regulatory requirements change, if we are required to contribute a material
amount of cash to our pension plans, if we are required to begin to pay other post-retirement benefits
significantly earlier than anticipated, if our payments for federal taxes increase faster or in greater amounts than currently anticipated, if we become subject to significant judgments or settlements
in one or more of the matters discussed in Note 15—Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, if we engage in any
acquisitions or if we undertake substantial capital projects or other initiatives that increase our cash requirements. We can give no assurance that this additional financing will be available on
terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit ratings could be adversely affected, which could further raise our 

35




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

borrowing
costs and further limit our future access to capital and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. 

        Certain
of our debt instruments have cross payment default or cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise
arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Any such event could adversely affect our ability to conduct business or access the capital markets and could adversely impact our
credit ratings. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report for additional
information about our credit facility. 

 Our debt agreements and the debt agreements of our subsidiaries allow us to incur significantly more debt, which could exacerbate the other risks described in this report.  

        The terms of our debt instruments and the debt instruments of our subsidiaries permit additional indebtedness. Additional debt may be
necessary for many reasons, including those discussed immediately above. Incremental borrowings on terms that impose additional financial risks could exacerbate the other risks described in this
report. 

 Our business requires us to incur substantial capital and operating expenses, which reduce our available free cash flow.  


        Our business is capital intensive, and we anticipate that our capital requirements will continue to be significant in the coming years.
As discussed further under "Risk Factors—Risks Affecting Our Business—Increases in broadband usage may
cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers," increased bandwidth consumption by consumers and businesses
have placed increased demands on the transmission capacity of our networks. If we determine that our networks must be expanded to handle these increased demands, we may be required to make substantial
capital expenditures, even though there is no assurance that the return on our investment will be satisfactory. In addition, many of our growth initiatives are capital intensive and changes in
technology could require further spending. In addition to investing in expanded networks, new products or new technologies, we must from time to time replace some of the equipment that supports our
traditional services as that equipment ages, even though the revenue base from those services is not growing. While we believe that our planned level of capital expenditures will meet both our
maintenance and core growth requirements, this may not be the case if demands on our network continue to accelerate or other circumstances underlying our expectations change. Increased spending could,
among other things, adversely affect our operating margins, cash flows, results of operations and financial position. 

        Similarly,
we continue to anticipate incurring substantial operating expenses to support our incumbent services and growth initiatives. Although we have successfully reduced our
operating expenses over the past few years, we may be unable to further reduce these costs, even if revenues in some of our lines of business are decreasing. If so, our operating margins will be
adversely impacted. 

 Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with our qualified pension plans could negatively impact our liquidity.  

        The funded status of our qualified pension plans is the difference between the value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. The
accounting unfunded status of our qualified pension plans was $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2012. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and
factors, could cause a significant increase in our benefit obligation or a significant decrease in the value of plan assets. These adverse changes could require us to contribute a material amount of
cash to our pension plans or could accelerate the timing of required cash payments. For information on the amount of cash we propose to contribute to our plans in the near term, please 

36




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Pension and Post-retirement Benefit
Obligations" in Item 7 of this report. The actual amount of required contributions to our plans in 2014 and beyond will depend on a variety of factors, including earnings on plan investments,
prevailing interest and discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plans benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Any future material cash contributions could have a negative
impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. 

 We plan to access the public debt markets, and we cannot assure you that these markets will remain free of disruptions.  

        We have a significant amount of indebtedness that we intend to refinance over the next several years, principally through the issuance
of debt securities of CenturyLink, Qwest Corporation or both. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position, performance, and credit ratings,
as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by the ongoing disruptions in the European sovereign debt
markets, the failure of the United States to reduce its deficit in amounts deemed to be sufficient, possible further downgrades in the credit ratings of the U.S. debt, contractions or limited growth
in the economy or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad. Instability in the global financial markets has from time to time resulted in periodic volatility in the capital
markets. This volatility could limit our access to the credit markets, leading to higher borrowing costs or, in some cases, the inability to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at
all. Any such failure to obtain additional financing could jeopardize our ability to repay, refinance or reduce debt obligations. 

<A
NAME="dc45501_other_risks"> 
 
  Other Risks        

 If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our consolidated financial
statements and related disclosures could be affected.  

        The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies,
which are described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in Item 7 of this report,
describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered "critical" because they require judgments, assumptions
and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events or assumptions differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions
and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 

 We face hurricane and other natural disaster risks, which can disrupt our operations and cause us to incur substantial additional capital and operating costs.  

        A substantial number of our facilities are located in Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas, North Carolina, South Carolina and other
coastal states, which subjects them to the risks associated with severe tropical storms, hurricanes and tornadoes, including downed telephone lines, flooded facilities, power outages, fuel shortages,
damaged or destroyed property and equipment, and work interruptions. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance on our plant (excluding our outside plant) and may under certain circumstances
be able to seek recovery of some additional costs through increased rates, only a portion of our additional costs directly related to such hurricanes and natural disasters 

37




 

<A
HREF="#bg45501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

have
historically been recoverable. We cannot predict whether we will continue to be able to obtain insurance for hazard-related damages or, if obtainable and carried, whether this insurance will be
adequate to cover our losses. In addition, we expect any insurance of this nature to be subject to substantial deductibles and to provide for premium adjustments based on claims. Any future
hazard-related costs and work interruptions could adversely affect our operations and our financial condition. 


 Tax audits or changes in tax laws could adversely affect us.  

        Like all large businesses, we are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service as well as state and local tax
authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. 

        We
believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have
recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of
them will have a material effect on our financial results. 

        Dividends
received by certain investors may be subject to a new 3.8% Medicare tax on unearned income beginning on January 1, 2013, and certain tax reform plans under consideration
by the U.S.
Congress could increase the dividend tax rate. Any significant increase in the U.S. tax rate on dividends could reduce demand for our stock, which could potentially depress its trading price. 

 Our agreements and organizational documents and applicable law could limit another party's ability to acquire us.  

        A number of provisions in our agreements and organizational documents and various provisions of applicable law may delay, defer or
prevent a future takeover of CenturyLink unless the takeover is approved by our Board of Directors. For additional information, please see our Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A
filed with the SEC July 1, 2009. This could deprive our shareholders of any related takeover premium. 

<A
NAME="dc45501_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
 
  ITEM 1B