ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

        Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or
prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Please be aware that additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial
could also materially and adversely affect our business operations. 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Risks Affecting Our Business  

 Increasing competition, including product substitution, continues to cause access line losses, which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our
operating results and financial condition.  

        We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We are facing
greater competition from cable companies, wireless providers, broadband companies, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and facilities-based providers using their own networks as well as
those leasing parts of our network. In addition, regulatory developments over the past several years have generally increased competitive pressures on our business. Due to some of these and other
factors, we continue to lose access lines. 

        Some
of our current and potential competitors (i) offer a more comprehensive range of communications products and services, (ii) have market presence, engineering and
technical capabilities, and financial and other resources greater than ours, (iii) own larger and more diverse networks, (iv) conduct operations or raise capital at a lower cost than us,
(v) are subject to less regulation, (vi) offer greater online content services or (vii) have substantially stronger brand names. Consequently, these competitors may be better
equipped to charge lower prices for their products and services, to provide more attractive offerings, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt
more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. 

        Competition
could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and market share, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our
services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects,
(v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. 

        We
are continually taking steps to respond to these competitive pressures, but these efforts may not be successful. Our operating results and financial condition would be adversely
affected if these initiatives are unsuccessful or insufficient and if we otherwise are unable to sufficiently stem or offset our continuing access line losses and our revenue declines significantly
without corresponding cost reductions. If this occurred, our ability to service debt and pay other obligations would also be adversely affected. 


 Our legacy services continue to generate declining revenues, and our efforts to offset these declines may not be successful.  

        The telephone industry has experienced a decline in access lines and network access revenues, which, coupled with the other changes
resulting from competitive, technological and regulatory developments, continue to place downward pressure on the revenues we generate from our legacy services. 

        We
have taken a variety of steps to counter these declines, including:



•an increased focus on selling a broader range of strategic services, including broadband, satellite television provided by
DIRECTV and wireless voice services provided by Verizon Wireless, as well as our own facilities-based digital video services; 
•greater use of service bundles; and 
•acquisitions to increase our scale and strengthen our product offerings, including new products and services provided by
our Savvis operations. 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        However,
some of these strategic services generate lower profit margins than our traditional services, and some can be expected to experience slowing growth as increasing numbers of our
existing or potential customers subscribe to these newer products. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from our new offerings will offset revenue losses associated from reduced
sales of our legacy products, nor can we assure you that we will be able to continue to grow through acquisitions. In addition, our reliance on services provided by others could constrain our
flexibility, as described further below. 

 Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively adjust to changes in our business, and will further suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations.  

        The above-described changes in our industry have placed a higher premium on marketing, technological, engineering and provisioning
skills. Our recent acquisitions also significantly changed the composition of our markets and product mix. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to retrain our staff to acquire or
strengthen skills necessary to address these changes, and, where necessary, to attract and retain new personnel that possess these skills. 

 Unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.  

        Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, could negatively
affect our business. Worldwide economic growth has been sluggish since 2008, and many experts believe that a confluence of factors in the United States, Europe and developing countries may result in a
prolonged period of economic downturn, slow growth or economic uncertainty. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of these general economic conditions, these conditions could adversely
affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our
products and services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to continue declining. Also, our customers may encounter financial hardships or may not be able to obtain adequate
access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, as discussed below, unstable economic and credit markets may preclude us from refinancing maturing debt
at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or
decline, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to raise capital. 

 We may need to defend ourselves against claims that we infringe upon others' intellectual property rights, or may need to seek third-party licenses to expand our product
offerings.  

        From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or
are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. Responding to these claims may require us to expend significant
time and money defending our use of affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay
damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more
of our products or services, which could significantly and adversely affect the way we conduct business. 

        Similarly,
from time to time, we may need to obtain the right to use certain patents or other intellectual property from third parties to be able to offer new products and services. If
we cannot license or otherwise obtain rights to use any required technology from a third party on reasonable terms, our ability to offer new products and services may be restricted, made more costly
or delayed. 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Our reseller and sales agency arrangements expose us to a number of risks, one or more of which may adversely affect our business and operating results.  


        We rely on reseller and sales agency arrangements with other companies to provide some of the services that we sell to our customers,
including video services and wireless products and services. If we fail to extend or renegotiate these arrangements as they expire from time to time or if these other companies fail to fulfill their
contractual obligations to us or our customers, we may have difficulty finding alternative arrangements and our customers may experience disruptions to their services. In addition, as a reseller or
sales agent, we do not control the availability, retail price, design, function, quality, reliability, customer service or branding of these products and services, nor do we directly control all of
the marketing and promotion of these products and services. To the extent that these other companies make decisions that negatively impact our ability to market and sell their products and services,
our business plans and goals and our reputation could be negatively impacted. If these reseller and sales agency arrangements are unsuccessful due to one or more of these risks, our business and
operating results may be adversely affected. 

 We could be harmed by network disruptions, security breaches, or other significant disruptions or failures of our IT infrastructure and related systems or of those we
operate for certain of our customers.  

        To be successful, we will need to continue providing our customers with a high capacity, reliable and secure network. We face the risk,
as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack, malware, computer viruses, sabotage, or other significant disruption of our IT infrastructure and related systems. We face an
added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT infrastructure and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our business and governmental
customers. As a communications and IT company, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from unauthorized access to our and our customers' proprietary or classified information on
our systems or the systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. 

        Although
we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and systems, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures
will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging, especially in light of the growing sophistication of cyber attacks and intrusions. We may be
unable to anticipate all potential types of attacks or intrusions or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. 

        Additional
risks to our network and infrastructure include:



•power losses or physical damage, whether caused by fire, adverse weather conditions, terrorism or otherwise;  
•capacity limitations; 
•software and hardware defects or malfunctions; 
•programming, processing and other human error; and 
•other disruptions that are beyond our control. 


        Network
disruptions, security breaches and other significant failures of the above-described systems could:



•disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations or those of certain of our
customers; 
•result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary,
confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents




including
trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; 



•require significant management attention or financial resources to remedy the damages that result or to change our
systems; 
•subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, fines, penalties, termination or other remedies, particularly
with respect to service standards set by state regulatory commissions; or 
•result in a loss of business, damage our reputation among our customers and the public generally, subject us to additional
regulatory scrutiny or expose us to litigation. 


        Any
or all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

 Any failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business.  

        The capacity, reliability and security of our internal information technology hardware and software infrastructure (including our
billing systems) are important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology
infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology
infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, increased acquisition integration costs, service or billing interruptions, and
the diversion of development resources. 

 Rapid changes in technology and markets could require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels, and any inability to respond
to those changes could reduce our market share and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  

        The communications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, many of which are reducing demand for our traditional
voice services or are enabling our current customers to reduce or bypass use of our networks. Technological change could also require us to expend capital or other resources in excess of currently
contemplated levels, or to forego the development or provision of products or services that others can provide more efficiently. If we are not able to develop new products and services to keep pace
with technological advances, or if those products and services are not widely accepted by customers, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and our market share could decline. Any
inability to keep up with changes in technology and markets could also adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. 

 Consolidation among other participants in the telecommunications industry may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our
operating results and financial condition.  

        The telecommunications industry has experienced substantial consolidation over the last decade, and some of our competitors have
combined with other telecommunications providers, resulting in competitors that are larger, have more financial and business resources, and have broader service offerings. Further consolidation could
increase competitive pressures, and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to
record a significant charge to earnings and reduce our stockholders' equity.  

        Under generally accepted accounting principles, intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently
whenever events or circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. If our intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record a
significant, non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined. 

 We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue paying dividends at the current rate.  


        Based on current circumstances, we plan to continue our current dividend practices. However, you should be aware that these practices
are subject to change for reasons that may include any of the following factors:



•we may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash
flows or financial position; 
•decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the
discretion of our Board of Directors, which reserves the right to change our dividend practices at any time and for any reason; 
•the effects of regulatory reform, including any changes to intercarrier compensation, Universal Service Fund or special
access rules; 
•our desire to maintain or improve the credit ratings on our debt; 
•the amount of dividends that we may distribute to our shareholders is subject to restrictions under Louisiana law and is
limited by restricted payment and leverage covenants in our credit facilities and, potentially, the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur; and  
•the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may distribute to us is subject to restrictions imposed by state law,
restrictions that have been or may be imposed by state regulators in connection with obtaining necessary approvals for our recent acquisitions, and restrictions imposed by the terms of credit
facilities applicable to certain subsidiaries and, potentially, the terms of any future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur. 


        Our
Board of Directors is free to change or suspend our dividend practices at any time. Our common shareholders should be aware that they have no contractual or other legal right to
dividends. 

 Our current dividend practices could limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities.  

        The current practice of our Board of Directors to pay an annual $2.90 per common share dividend reflects an intention to distribute to
our shareholders a substantial portion of our cash flow. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance a material
expansion of our business in the future. In addition, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business, through acquisitions or increased capital spending will depend more than it
otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available to us at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously
benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. 

 We rely on a limited number of key suppliers, vendors, landlords and other third parties to operate our business.  

        We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. Our local
exchange carrier networks consist of central office and remote 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

sites,
all with advanced digital switches. If any of these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering or servicing these network components on a timely basis, our operations could
suffer significantly. To the extent that proprietary technology of a supplier is an integral component of our network, we may have limited flexibility to purchase key network components from
alternative suppliers. Similarly, our data center operations are materially reliant on leasing space from landlords and power services from utility companies, and being able to renew these
arrangements from time to time on favorable terms. In addition, we rely on a limited number of software vendors to support our business management systems. In the event it becomes necessary to seek
alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement supplies, services, space or utilities on economically attractive terms, on a timely basis, or at all, which
could increase costs or cause disruptions in our services. 

 Portions of our property, plant and equipment are located on property owned by third parties.  

        Over the past few years, certain utilities, cooperatives and municipalities in certain of the states in which we operate have requested
significant rate increases for attaching our plant to their facilities. To the extent that these entities are successful in increasing the amount we pay for these attachments, our future operating
costs will increase. 

        In
addition, we rely on rights-of-way, colocation agreements and other authorizations granted by governmental bodies and other third parties to locate our cable,
conduit and other network equipment on their respective properties. If any of these authorizations terminate or lapse, our operations could be adversely affected. 


 We depend on key members of our senior management team.  

        Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of a limited number of senior officers. Competition for senior
management in our industry is intense and we may have difficulty retaining our current senior officers or attracting new ones in the event of terminations or resignations. For a discussion of similar
retention concerns relating to our recent mergers, please see the risks described below under the heading "Risks Relating to Our Recent Acquisitions." 

 As a holding company, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations.  


        As a holding company, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and
their distribution of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or other payments. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations,
including the payment of amounts owed under our long-term debt. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us or, subject
to exceptions for tax-sharing purposes, to make any funds available to us to repay our obligations, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. Certain of our subsidiaries may be
restricted under loan agreements or regulatory orders from transferring funds to us, including certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that may be paid to us. Moreover, our rights to receive
assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. The notes to our consolidated
financial statements included in this report describe these matters in additional detail. 

 Risks Relating to our Recent Acquisitions  

 We expect to incur substantial expenses related to the integration of Qwest and Savvis.  

        We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses in connection with the integration of Qwest's and Savvis'
business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures with our own. There are a large number of systems that need to be integrated, including 

26




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

billing,
management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll and benefits, fixed asset, lease administration and regulatory compliance. While we have assumed that a certain
level of transaction and integration expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of our integration expenses. Many of
the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Moreover, we commenced some of these integration initiatives before we completed our
integration of Embarq, which we acquired in 2009. This has delayed some of our pending integration initiatives, and increased their cost and complexity. Due to these factors, we expect the integration
expenses associated with our acquisitions to exceed in the near term our anticipated post-acquisition integration savings resulting from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the
realization of economies of scale, many of which cannot be attained until several years after the acquisition. These acquisition-related expenses continue to reduce our earnings. These charges have
been, and are expected to continue to be, significant, although the aggregate amount and timing of these charges are still uncertain. 

 We may be unable to integrate successfully the Legacy CenturyLink, Qwest and Savvis businesses and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions.  

        The Qwest and Savvis acquisitions involved the combination of companies which previously operated as independent public companies. We
have devoted, and will continue to devote, significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Legacy CenturyLink, Qwest and Savvis. We may encounter
difficulties in the integration process, including the following:



•the inability to successfully combine our businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost
savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the acquisitions, either due to technological challenges, personnel shortages, strikes or otherwise, any of which would result in the
anticipated benefits of the acquisitions not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; 
•lost sales as a result of customers of any of the three companies deciding not to do business with the combined company;  
•the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating
personnel from the three companies, while at the same time attempting to provide consistent, high quality products and services under a unified culture;  
•the additional complexities of combining companies with different histories, regulatory restrictions, product markets and
customer bases, and initiating this process before we had fully completed the integration of our operations with those of Embarq; 
•the failure to retain key employees, some of whom could be critical to integrating the companies;  
•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or regulatory conditions associated with the acquisitions;
and 
•performance shortfalls at one or all of the companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by
integrating the companies' operations. 


        For
all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or
inconsistencies in our products, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees
or to achieve the anticipated
benefits of our recent acquisitions, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. 

27






<A
NAME="page_de46301_1_28"> 









































Table of Contents 

 Our final determinations of the acquisition date fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired from Qwest and Savvis may be significantly different from our current
estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.  

        We have recognized the assets and liabilities of Qwest and Savvis based on our preliminary estimates of their respective acquisition
date fair values. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable
intangible assets) requires significant judgment. As such, we have not completed our valuation analysis and calculations in sufficient detail necessary to arrive at the final estimates of the fair
value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, along with the related allocations to goodwill and intangible assets. As such, all information presented in this report is preliminary and subject
to revision pending the final valuation analysis. We expect to complete our final fair value determinations no later than the first quarter of 2012 for Qwest and the second quarter of 2012 for Savvis.
Our final fair value determinations may be significantly different than those reflected in this report, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 

 The Qwest and Embarq acquisitions changed the profile of our local exchange markets to include more large urban areas, with which we have limited operating experience.  

        Prior to the Embarq acquisition, we provided local exchange telephone services to predominantly rural areas and small to
mid-size cities. Embarq's local exchange markets included Las Vegas, Nevada and suburbs of Orlando and several other large U.S. cities, and we have operated these more dense markets only
since mid-2009. Qwest's markets included Phoenix, Arizona, Denver, Colorado, Minneapolis—St. Paul, Minnesota, Seattle, Washington, Salt Lake City, Utah, and Portland,
Oregon. Compared to our legacy markets, these urban markets, on average, are substantially denser and have experienced greater access line losses in recent years. While we believe our strategies and
operating models developed serving rural and smaller markets can successfully be applied to larger markets, we cannot assure you of this. Our business, financial performance and prospects could be
harmed if our current strategies or operating models cannot be successfully applied to larger markets, or are required to be changed or abandoned to adjust to differences in these larger markets. 

 We cannot assure you whether, when or in what amounts we will be able to use Qwest's and Savvis' net operating losses.  


        At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $6.2 billion of federal net operating losses, or NOLs, of which, approximately
$5.6 billion and $212 million relate to pre-acquisition losses of Qwest and Savvis, respectively. These NOLs can be used to offset our future federal and certain taxable
income. 

        The
acquisition of Qwest and Savvis caused an "ownership change" under federal tax laws relating to the use of NOLs. As a result, these laws could limit our ability to use their NOLs and
certain other deferred tax attributes. Further limitations could apply if we are deemed to undergo an ownership change in the future. Despite this, we expect to use substantially all of these NOLs and
certain other deferred tax attributes as an offset to our federal future taxable income by 2015, although the timing of that use will depend upon the consolidated group's future earnings and future
tax circumstances. 

 Our acquisitions have increased our exposure to the risks of fluctuations in energy costs, power outages and limited availability of electrical resources.  

        Through the acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis, we have added a significant number of data center facilities, which are susceptible to
regional costs and supply of power and electrical power outages. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. However, we may not be able to limit our
exposure entirely even with these
protections in place. In addition, our energy costs can fluctuate significantly or increase for a variety of reasons, including 

28




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

changes
in legislation and regulation. As energy costs increase, we may not always be able to pass on the increased costs of energy to our clients, which could harm our business. Power and cooling
requirements at our data centers are also increasing as a result of the increasing power demands of today's servers. Since we rely on third parties to provide our data centers with power sufficient to
meet our clients' power needs, our data centers could have a limited or inadequate amount of electrical resources. Our clients' demand for power may also exceed the power capacity in older data
centers, which may limit our ability to fully utilize these data centers. This could adversely affect our relationships with our clients and hinder our ability to run our data centers, which could
harm our business. 

 Our inability to renew data center leases, or renew on favorable terms, could have a negative impact on our financial results.  

        A significant majority of the data centers we acquired in the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions are leased and have lease terms that expire
between 2012 and 2031. The majority of these leases provide us with the opportunity to renew the lease at our option for periods generally ranging from five to ten years. Many of these renewal
options, however, provide that rent for the renewal period will be equal to the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal. If the fair market rental rates are significantly higher than our
current rental rates, we may be unable to offset these costs by charging more for our services, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Also, it is possible that a landlord may
insist on other financially unfavorable renewal terms or, where no further option to renew exists, elect not to renew altogether. 

 Our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis has increased our exposure to the risks of operating internationally.  


        Prior to acquiring Qwest on April 1, 2011, substantially all of our operations were historically conducted within the
continental United States. Although Qwest has historically conducted some operations overseas, the acquisition of Savvis has increased the importance of international operations to our future
operations, growth and prospects. 

        As
a result of our recent acquisitions, our non-domestic operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we provide
services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Future regulatory, judicial and
legislative changes or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various foreign jurisdictions. Many of these foreign laws and regulations relating
to communications services are more restrictive than U.S. laws and regulations, particularly those relating to content distributed over the Internet. For example, the European Union has enacted a data
retention system that, once implemented by individual member states, will involve requirements to retain certain Internet protocol, or IP, data that could have an impact on our operations in Europe.
Moreover, national regulatory frameworks that are consistent with the policies and requirements of the World Trade Organization have only recently been, or are still being, enacted in many countries.
Accordingly, many countries are still in the early stages of providing for and adapting to a liberalized telecommunications market. As a result, in these markets we may encounter more protracted and
difficult procedures to obtain licenses necessary to provide the full set of products we offer. 

        In
addition to these international regulatory risks, some of the other risks inherent in conducting business internationally include:



•tax, licensing, currency, political or other business restrictions or requirements;  
•import and export restrictions; 
•longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, as well as other anti-corruption laws; 
•fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 
•the ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; and  
•challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations. 


        Any
one or more of these factors could adversely affect our international operations. 

        Moreover,
in order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, it is frequently necessary or required to establish joint ventures, strategic alliances or marketing
arrangements with local operators, partners or agents. Reliance on local operators, partners or agents could expose us to the risk of being unable to control the scope or quality of our overseas
services or products, or being held liable under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws for actions taken by our strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents
may not themselves be subject to the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation or prospects. 

 Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters  

 Any adverse outcome of the KPNQwest litigation, or other material litigation of Qwest, Savvis or CenturyLink could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition
and operating results, on the trading price of our securities and on our ability to access the capital markets.  

        As described in Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of
this report, the KPNQwest matters present material and significant risks to us. In the aggregate, the plaintiffs in the KPNQwest matters seek
billions of euros (equating to billions of dollars) in damages. In addition, the outcome of one of the two pending matters could have a negative impact on the other. We continue to defend against
these matters vigorously and are currently unable to provide any estimate as to the timing of their resolution. 


        We
can give no assurance as to the impacts on our financial results or financial condition that may ultimately result from these matters. The ultimate outcomes of these matters are still
uncertain, and substantial settlements or judgments in these matters could have a significant impact on us. The magnitude of such settlements or judgments resulting from these matters could materially
and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to meet our debt obligations, potentially impacting our credit ratings, our ability to access capital markets and our compliance with debt
covenants. In addition, the magnitude of any such settlements or judgments may cause us to draw down significantly on our cash balances, which might force us to obtain additional financing or explore
other methods to generate cash. Such methods could include issuing additional debt securities or selling assets. 


        There
are other material proceedings pending against us, as described in Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in
Item 8 of this report. Depending on their outcome, any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operating results. We can give you no assurances as to
the impact of these matters on our operating results or financial condition. 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 We operate in a highly regulated industry and are therefore exposed to restrictions on our manner of doing business and a variety of claims relating to such regulation.  



 General  



        We are subject to significant regulation by the FCC, which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which
regulate intrastate communications. Generally, we must obtain and maintain certificates of authority from the FCC and regulatory bodies in most states where we offer regulated services, and we are
subject to numerous, and often quite detailed, requirements and interpretations under federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that we are always considered
to be in compliance with all these
requirements at any single point in time. The agencies responsible for the enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations may initiate inquiries or actions based on customer complaints or on their
own initiative. 

        Regulation
of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly, and the regulatory environment varies substantially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Notwithstanding a recent
movement towards alternative regulation, a substantial portion of our local voice services revenue remains subject to FCC and state utility commission pricing regulation, which periodically exposes us
to pricing or earnings disputes and could expose us to unanticipated price declines. Interexchange carriers have filed complaints in various forums requesting reductions in our access rates. In
addition, several long distance providers are disputing amounts owed to us for carrying VoIP traffic or traffic they claim is VoIP traffic and are refusing to pay such amounts. There can be no
assurance that future regulatory, judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with
regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations. 



 Risk associated with recent changes in federal regulation  



        On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") intended to
reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal service funding to foster nationwide broadband
coverage. This initial ruling provides for a multi-year transition over the next decade as intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service funding is explicitly targeted
to broadband deployment, and subscriber line charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. These changes will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched
access revenues we receive in our wholesale markets segment, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue streams. The ultimate effect of this order on communications
companies is largely dependent on future FCC proceedings designed to implement the order, the most significant of which are scheduled to be determined in 2012 and 2013. Several judicial challenges to
the CAF order are pending and additional future challenges are possible, any of which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various
state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. For these reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings at this time. 

        Under
other pending proceedings, the FCC may implement changes in the regulation or pricing of special access services, any of which could adversely affect our operations or financial
results. 



 Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance  



        Regulations continue to create significant compliance costs for us. Challenges to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays
in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and, if successful, such challenges could adversely affect the rates that we
are able to charge our customers. Our business also may be impacted by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to regulations or laws related to 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

broadband
deployment, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts, enhancing privacy, or addressing other issues that impact our business,
including the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (which requires communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities, and services are able to facilitate authorized
electronic surveillance), and laws governing local number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements. We expect our compliance costs to increase if future laws or
regulations continue to increase our obligations to assist other governmental agencies. 



 Risks posed by other regulations  



        All of our operations are also subject to a variety of environmental, safety, health and other governmental regulations. We monitor our
compliance with federal, state and local regulations governing the management, discharge and disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials. Although we believe that we are in
compliance with these regulations, our management, discharge or disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials might expose us to claims or actions that could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 

 Regulatory changes in the communications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition against us.  

        Beginning in 1996, Congress and the FCC have taken several steps that have resulted in increased competition among service providers.
Many of the FCC's regulations remain subject to judicial review and additional rulemakings, thus making it difficult to predict what effect any changes in interpretation of the 1996 Act may ultimately
have on us and our competitors. We could be adversely affected by programs or initiatives recently undertaken by Congress or the FCC, including (i) the federal broadband stimulus projects
authorized by Congress in 2009; (ii) the FCC's 2010 National Broadband Plan; (iii) new "network neutrality" rules; (iv) the proposed broadband "Connect America" replacement
support fund, and (v) the FCC's above-described October 27, 2011 order. 


 We are subject to significant regulations that limit our flexibility.  

        As a diversified full service ILEC, we have traditionally been subject to significant regulation that does not apply to many of our
competitors. This regulation imposes substantial compliance costs on us and restricts our ability to change rates, to compete and to respond rapidly to changing industry conditions. As our business
becomes increasingly competitive, regulatory disparities between us and our competitors could impede our ability to compete. 

 We are exposed to risks arising out of recent legislation affecting U.S. public companies.  


        Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and related regulations implemented by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange and the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board, are increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. Any future failure to successfully or timely complete annual assessments of our internal
controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results
or investors' confidence in us. 

        For
a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see Item 1 of this report. 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Risks Affecting our Liquidity  

 Our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments.  

        We continue to carry significant debt. As of December 31, 2011, our consolidated debt was approximately $21.8 billion.
Approximately $4.3 billion of our debt obligations comes due over the next three years. While we currently believe that we will have the financial resources to meet or refinance our obligations
when they come due, we cannot fully anticipate our future condition or the condition of the credit markets or the economy generally. We may have unexpected expenses and liabilities, and we may have
limited access to financing. 

        We
expect to periodically require financing to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Due to the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, we may not be able to
refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We may also need to obtain additional financing or
investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets) if revenues and cash provided by operations decline, if economic conditions weaken, if competitive
pressures increase, if we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our collective pension plans, if we are required to begin to pay other post-retirement benefits
significantly earlier than is anticipated, if we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in Note 16—Commitments and
Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, or if we engage in any acquisition or other initiatives that increase our cash requirements. We can give no
assurance that this additional financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit ratings could be adversely affected,
which could further raise our borrowing costs and further limit our future access to capital and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. 


        Our
significant levels of debt can adversely affect us in several other respects, including (i) exposing us to the risk of credit rating downgrades, which would raise our
borrowing costs, (ii) hindering our ability to adjust to changing market, industry or economic conditions, (iii) limiting our ability to access the capital markets, (iv) limiting
the amount of free cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions,
dividends, stock repurchases or other uses, (v) making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases, and (vi) placing us at a competitive
disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. 

        Certain
of our debt issues have cross payment default or cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise
from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Any such event could adversely affect our ability to conduct business or access the capital markets and could adversely impact our credit
ratings. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report for additional information about our credit facility. 

        The
degree to which we are leveraged may have other important limiting consequences, including the following:



•placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared with our less leveraged competitors;  
•making us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions or in any of our businesses;  
•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;
and 
•impairing our credit ratings or our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital
expenditures or general corporate purposes. 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 We may be unable to significantly reduce the substantial capital requirements or operating expenses necessary to continue to operate our business, which may in turn affect
our operating results.  

        The industry in which we operate is capital intensive, and we anticipate that our capital requirements will continue to be significant
in the coming years. Although we have reduced our operating expenses over the past few years, we may be unable to further significantly reduce these costs, even if revenues in some areas of our
business are decreasing. While we believe that our planned level of capital expenditures will meet both our maintenance and our core growth requirements going forward, this may not be the case if
circumstances underlying our expectations change. 

 Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with our pension and post-retirement benefit plans could negatively impact our liquidity.  


        We maintain one or more qualified pension plans, non-qualified pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans,
several of which are currently underfunded. The accounting unfunded status of our pension plans was $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2011. Adverse changes in interest rates or market
conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in our benefit obligation or a significant decrease in the value of plan assets. These adverse changes could require
us to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plans or could accelerate the timing of required cash payments. During 2011, we contributed an aggregate of $587 million to our pension
plans and we expect to make a contribution of less than $50 million in 2012. We currently expect that required and voluntary contributions for 2013 will be approximately $500 million, based on
current laws and circumstances. The actual amounts of required contributions to our plans in 2013 and beyond are subject to several variables, many of which are beyond our control, including earnings
on plan investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plans benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Any future material cash contributions could have a negative impact
on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. 

 Our debt agreements and the debt agreements of our subsidiaries allow us to incur significantly more debt, which could exacerbate the other risks described in this report.  

        The terms of our debt instruments and the debt instruments of our subsidiaries permit additional indebtedness. Additional debt may be
necessary for many reasons, including to adequately respond to competition, to comply with regulatory requirements related to our service obligations, to fund capital requirements or to finance
acquisitions. Incremental borrowings on terms that impose additional financial risks could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. 

 We plan to access the public debt markets, and we cannot assure you that these markets will remain free of disruptions.  

        We have a significant amount of indebtedness that we intend to refinance over the next several years, principally we expect through the
issuance of debt securities of CenturyLink, Qwest Corporation ("QC") or both. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance,
as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by the ongoing sovereign debt crises in Europe, the failure of
the United States to reduce its deficit in amounts deemed to be sufficient, possible further downgrades in the credit ratings of the U.S. debt, contractions or limited growth in the economy or other
similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any such failure
to obtain additional financing could jeopardize our ability to repay, refinance or reduce debt obligations. 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Other Risks  

 If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our financial statements and
related disclosures could be affected.  

        The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies,
which are described in Item 7 of this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered
"critical" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events or assumptions
differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements and related disclosures. 

 We face hurricane and other natural disaster risks, which can disrupt our operations and cause us to incur substantial additional capital costs.  

        A substantial number of our access lines are located in Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas, North Carolina, and South Carolina, and our
operations there are subject to the risks associated with severe tropical storms, hurricanes and tornadoes, including downed telephone lines, power outages, damaged or destroyed property and
equipment, and work interruptions. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance on our plant (excluding our outside plant) and may under certain circumstances be able to seek recovery of some
additional costs through increased rates, only a portion of our additional costs directly related to such hurricanes and natural disasters have historically been recoverable. We cannot predict whether
we will continue to be able to obtain insurance for hazard-related damages or, if obtainable and carried, whether this insurance will be adequate to cover our losses. In addition, we expect any
insurance of this nature to be subject to substantial deductibles and to provide for premium adjustments based on claims. Any future hazard-related costs and work interruptions could adversely affect
our operations and our financial condition. 

 We are subject to franchising requirements that could impede our expansion opportunities.  

        We may be required to obtain from municipal authorities operating franchises to install or expand facilities. Some of these franchises
may require us to pay franchise fees. These franchising requirements generally apply to our fiber transport and CLEC operations, and to our emerging switched digital television. These requirements
could delay us in expanding our operations or increase the costs of providing these services. 


 Tax audits or changes in tax laws could adversely affect us.  

        Like all large businesses, we are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service as well as state and local tax
authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. 

        We
believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have
recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of
them will have a material effect on our financial results. 

        The
current maximum U.S. tax rate of 15% on qualified dividends is scheduled to rise to a maximum rate of 39.6% on January 1, 2013 if Congress does not otherwise act. An increase
in the U.S. 

35




 

<A
HREF="#bg46301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


tax
rate on dividends could reduce demand for our stock, which could potentially depress its trading price. 

 Our agreements and organizational documents and applicable law could limit another party's ability to acquire us.  

        A number of provisions in our agreements and organizational documents and various provisions of applicable law may delay, defer or
prevent a future takeover of CenturyLink unless the takeover is approved by our Board of Directors. This could deprive our shareholders of any related takeover premium. 


 If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage
in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed.  

        Over 40% of our employees are members of various bargaining units represented by the Communications Workers of America and the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. From time to time, our labor agreements with these unions lapse, and we typically negotiate the terms of new agreements. Approximately 15,000 of our
union-represented employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire throughout 2012. We cannot predict the outcome of these negotiations. We may be unable to reach new agreements,
and union employees may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services and result in increased cost to us. In addition, new
labor agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations in the future. To the extent they contain benefit provisions, these
agreements also limit our flexibility to change benefits in response to industry or competitive changes. In particular, the post-employment benefits provided under these agreements cause
us to incur costs not faced by many of our competitors, which could ultimately hinder our competitive position.  


<A
NAME="de46301_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B