 entitled “Risk Factors” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.Workspace Services Our Desktop and Application Virtualization products are based on an alternative technology platform the success of which will depend on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with adopting desktop and application virtualization solutions. We differentiate from basic virtualization solutions with robust security and flexibility to enable IT to deliver Windows apps and desktops for better business outcomes. Our primary competition in this market is the existing IT desktop management practice of manually configuring physical desktops, which is time-consuming, expensive and subject to inconsistency. We also face numerous competitors that provide automation of these processes and alternative approaches, including VMware's Horizon product and Oracle Corporation, or Oracle's, broad virtualization stack which is a feature of its operating system and management software. We believe XenDesktop and XenApp give Citrix a competitive advantage by providing customers multiple ways to virtualize and deliver desktops and or apps with one, integrated virtualization system and delivering a higher performance user experience, more robust security and the flexibility for people to use any device and IT to use any cloud infrastructure - public or private. Our Enterprise Mobility Management product line, XenMobile, competes with AirWatch by VMware, MobileIron, Good Technology and other smaller competitors. We believe we differentiate ourselves from these competitors by providing the most complete solution on the market, with MDM, MAM and core mobile productivity applications, including secure mobile email, calendar, browser, notes and more. Our apps feature unique workflow integrations designed to make people work better, a significant advantage over competitors that rely on third parties for their mobile apps and can drive similar integrations.We also see competition from competitors that are combining mobile and desktop technologies. We believe the Citrix solution, Citrix Workspace Suite, is the best solution available today that can securely deliver a mobile workspace - all Windows, Web, SaaS and native mobile applications, data and virtual desktops - to any device, anywhere. VMware responded to our introduction of the Citrix Workspace Suite with the introduction of the VMware Workspace Suite. We expect other vendors to follow suit. We offer market-leading technologies for every component of the Citrix Workspace Suite. Further, we believe that our end-user experience is a competitive edge when compared to the alternative solutions due to the intuitiveness and self-service features of our offering.Delivery NetworkingOur NetScaler products compete against other established competitors, including, F5 Networks, Inc., or F5, and to a lesser extent, A10 Networks. Both compete with us for traditional enterprise sales opportunities, while F5 is our principal competitor in the Internet-centric market segment. We continue to enhance NetScaler's feature capability and aggressively market NetScaler to our existing customer base as well as expanding into telco and cloud provider markets. Our ByteMobile Smart Capacity product's primary competition is a network engineering organization that elects not to employ the type of optimization solution we offer. In addition, ByteMobile Smart Capacity competes with single-purpose or limited-purpose vendors that address a portion of what our product offers and may or may not partner with other vendors to complete their offerings. Our ByteMobile Smart Capacity product is a market share leader in the video and web optimization market, with a large installed base of tier-one mobile network operator customers. We believe that ByteMobile Smart Capacity has competitive advantages both in core optimization technology and in its ability to consolidate disparate hardware and software functionality into a single managed network element. 11Competition for CloudBridge comes in the form of alternative approaches to making the cloud a secure extension of a company’s on-premise enterprise network, Internet protocol security, or IPSec, or multi-protocol label switching, or MPLS, network solutions, among others. With regards to WAN optimization, CloudBridge also competes with Riverbed Technology, Inc., or Riverbed and Cisco. Riverbed has the largest market share. While being a less established company than Citrix, Riverbed has the advantage of being focused solely on WAN optimization. Cisco with the second largest share, benefits from its leadership in the networking market. We believe CloudBridge is a more feature-rich solution than the other alternatives and provides superior flexibility through shared technology with NetScaler.VMware is also the main competitor of our CloudPlatform product, which is an advanced platform for building highly scalable and reliable cloud computing environments, and our CloudPortal product, which is a comprehensive portal for provisioning hosted applications, desktops, services and IaaS. Unlike VMware's products, our CloudPlatform and CloudPortal products draw on the successful models and experience of large, public cloud implementations and apply them to enterprise, private clouds. The differentiation and experience of our products is expanded when coupled with our NetScaler and XenServer products, both of which are used in large, public cloud implementations. Additionally, OpenStack, an open source project, provides an alternative solution to our CloudPlatform product. We believe CloudPlatform has a competitive advantage, as it is production ready for cloud deployment.In the server virtualization market, we compete directly with VMware, which was first to market with this technology and is widely regarded as the market leader. In addition, we also compete with Microsoft's Windows Server 2012 with Hyper-V. Microsoft first entered this market in 2008 and has since established its position as a leader in this space. To a lesser extent, and mostly only in the niche technology areas of test and development, we compete with RedHat, who recently expanded into this market. We believe XenServer, our server virtualization product, has features that are competitive with VMware's ESX Server in terms of performance, scalability and other enterprise-class capabilities. XenServer is offered as a free download, which significantly increases the reach of server virtualization to customers of all sizes and geographies. We monetize XenServer by selling maintenance and updates, which aligns with our CloudPlatform go-to-market strategy.Mobility AppsOur products for collaboration continue to maintain solid leadership positions in extremely competitive markets, particularly among, SMBs. We differentiate our SaaS offerings by designing simple, secure, reliable and cost-efficient products that deliver a superior customer experience. Our competitors range from large, established technology firms to small, Internet-based startups. In Communications Cloud, we compete primarily with Cisco WebEx, Microsoft Lync and Skype, and conferencing call solutions from Intercall, PGi, AT&T and Verizon. Additionally we compete with freemium products such as Logmein's Join.me and Google's Google + Hangouts. Our GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining products have proven to be competitive based on ease-of-use and the All You Can Meet® pricing model, combined with built-in VoIP and toll-based PSTN audio services. We further differentiate our collaboration products by integrating OpenVoice toll-free seamlessly with the built-in VoIP and toll audio services and having purpose-built solutions for marketing and training use cases. We believe these features give us competitive advantage among individual, prosumer and SMB customers.In the data sharing market, our Documents Cloud direct competition includes Dropbox, Inc., Box, Inc. and HighTail, Inc. (formerly YouSendIt), as well as legacy solutions like traditional file transfer protocol, or FTP, in the SMB market. Many of these competitors have strong brand recognition through their consumer and free versions of their products. However, we believe our ShareFile product offers a superior solution as it is built specifically for the needs of businesses. In the Enterprise segment, there are fewer direct competitors to the ShareFile product. Increased competition is anticipated as large enterprises need to deploy secure data syncing and sharing solutions for a growing mobile workforce. We believe that Citrix's strong reputation in the Enterprise market, along with ShareFile's integration into Citrix products such as Receiver and XenMobile, and our unique ability to store data on-premise or in the Cloud, will be a key differentiator.We have been a market leader with our GoToMyPC product for many years. Our direct competition includes LogMeIn, Inc., or LogMeIn, free solutions such as Microsoft's Live Mesh and those from many Internet startups. In addition, new remote access features in desktop operating systems like Microsoft Windows and Macintosh OSX provide alternatives to our solution. We endeavor to differentiate our products by continuing our focus on security, ease-of-use and support for multiple desktop operating systems.Our Workflow Cloud product, GoToAssist, has achieved a large market share for Web-based clientless remote support. This product includes a version purpose-built for individual users, consultants and small businesses, positioning Citrix as the only provider of remote support solutions for all segments of the market. In remote support, we compete with Cisco's WebEx and LogMeIn. 12Proprietary Technology Our success is dependent upon certain proprietary technologies and core intellectual property. We have been awarded numerous domestic and foreign patents and have numerous pending patent applications in the United States and foreign countries. Our technology is also protected under copyright laws. Additionally, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality and proprietary information agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We have established proprietary trademark rights in markets across the globe, and own trademark registrations and pending registration applications in the United States and other countries, including Citrix, Citrix Workspace Cloud, ByteMobile, GoToAssist, GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, NetScaler, ShareFile, Worx Home, WorxDesktop, WorxMail, WorxWeb, Xen, XenApp, XenClient, XenDesktop, XenServer and XenMobile. While our competitive position could be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information, we believe that because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industry, factors such as the technical expertise, knowledge and innovative skill of our management and technical personnel, our technology relationships, name recognition, the timeliness and quality of support services provided by us and our ability to rapidly develop, enhance and market software products could be more significant in maintaining our competitive position. See Part I-Item 1A entitled “Risk Factors” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. Available InformationOur Internet address is http://www.citrix.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2014, we had 10,081 employees. On January 28, 2015, we announced a strategic restructuring program which included steps to reduce our headcount by approximately 700 full-time positions and 200 contractor positions. We believe our relations with employees are good. In certain countries outside the United States, our relations with employees are governed by labor regulations that provide for specific terms of employment between our company and our employees. 13ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain “forward-looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements concerning new products, product development and offerings of products and services market positioning, distribution and sales channels, our partners and other strategic or technology relationships, financial information and results of operations for future periods, product and price competition, strategy and growth initiatives, seasonal factors, natural disasters, stock-based compensation, licensing and subscription renewal programs, international operations and expansion, investment transactions and valuations of investments and derivative instruments, reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, tax matters, acquisitions, stock repurchases, our debt, changes in accounting rules or guidance, changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions and credit markets, delays or reductions in technology purchases, liquidity, litigation matters, and intellectual property matters constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition could vary materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYA significant portion of our revenues has historically come from our Desktop and Application Virtualization products and decreases in sales for certain of these products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditionA significant portion of our revenues has historically come from our Desktop and Application Virtualization products, and we continue to anticipate that sales of our Desktop and Application Virtualization products and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Recently, product license sales for certain of our Desktop and Application Virtualization products have declined year-over-year. Further declines and variability in sales of certain of our Desktop and Application Virtualization products could occur as a result of:•new competitive product releases and updates to existing products;•industry trend to focus on the delivery of applications, especially on mobile devices;•introduction of new or alternative technologies, products or service offerings by third parties;•termination or reduction of our product offerings and enhancements;•potential market saturation;•failure to enter new markets•price and product competition resulting from rapid and frequent technological changes and customer needs;•general economic conditions; •complexities and cost in implementation; •failure to deliver satisfactory technical support;•dissatisfied customers; or•lack of commercial success of our technology relationships. In addition, we recently experienced increased competition in the Desktop and Application Virtualization business from directly competing products, alternative products and products on new platforms. For example, in 2014 VMWare introduced Horizon Suite, which competes with our XenApp product offerings, and Amazon and IBM introduced Desktop-as-a-Service offerings. Further, there continues to be an increase in the number of alternatives to Windows operating system powered desktops, in particular mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers. Users may increasingly turn to these devices to perform functions that would have been traditionally performed on desktops and laptops, which in turn may reduce the market for our Desktop and Application Virtualization products. If sales of our Desktop and Application Virtualization products decline as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, modifications to certain of our Desktop and Application Virtualization products may cause variability in our Desktop and Application Virtualization revenue, and make it difficult to predict our revenue growth and trends, as our customers adjust their purchasing decisions in response to such events. 14Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market.The demand for our products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. Moreover, the purchase of our products and services is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. U.S economic forecasts for the information technology, or IT, sector are uncertain and continue to highlight an industry in transition from legacy platforms to mobile, cloud, big data and social solutions. If our current and prospective customers cut costs they may significantly reduce their information technology expenditures. Additionally, if our current and prospective customers shift their IT spending more rapidly towards newer technologies and solutions as mobile, cloud, big data and social platforms evolve, the demand for our products and services most aligned with legacy platforms (such as our Desktop Virtualization products) could decrease. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we do not develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are characterized by: •rapid technological change; •evolving industry standards; •fluctuations in customer demand; •changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs; and •frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. U.S. economic forecasts for the IT sector are uncertain and continue to highlight an industry in transition from legacy platforms to mobile, cloud, big data and social solutions. Our future success depends on our ability to adapt to this fluid market and continually enhance our current products and services, integrate acquired products and services, and develop and introduce new products and services that our customers choose to buy. The emerging markets for our next generation of products and services have yet to be defined. The introduction of third-party solutions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing and future software solutions obsolete and unmarketable. If we are unable to keep pace with technological developments of third parties, expectations of the emerging markets and customer demands by introducing new products and services and enhancements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success could be hindered by: •delays in our introduction of new products and services; •delays in or lack of market acceptance of new products and services or new releases of our current products and services; •our failure to support services in a timely manner;•our failure to identify and address significant product quality issues;•our inability to position our and/or price our products and services to meet the market demand;•our failure to maintain relevance and brand loyalty in the evolving marketplace; and •the introduction of new products, services or technologies from third parties that could replace, make obsolete or shorten the life cycle of our existing product and service offerings. We believe the demand for technology has and will continue to shift from the types of products and services we and our competitors have sold in the past to a new generation of products and services. We cannot guarantee that our Workspace Services solutions, Delivery Networking products and Mobility Apps products will achieve the broad market acceptance by our channel and strategic partners, customers and prospective customers necessary to generate significant revenue in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If we experience material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to our new products and services or new releases of our current products and services, those delays or shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition, which could result in customer loss, fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We sell our products and services in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. We compete based on our ability to offer to our customers the most current and desired product and services features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors’ products may be less costly or, especially with respect to our Mobility Apps products, free, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products.  15Additionally, there is a risk that our products may become outdated or that our market share may erode. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new products incorporating similar features to our products could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future product and service offerings. Existing or new products and services that provide alternatives to our products and services could materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. As the markets for our products and services, especially those products in early stages of development, continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software, cloud, networking, mobile, collaboration, data sharing and related industries, could enter, or increase their footprint in, the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter our markets and as our current competitors seek to increase market share. As our businesses continue to expand globally, we may see new and increased competition in different geographic regions. The generally low barriers to entry in certain of our businesses increase the potential for challenges from new industry competitors, whether small and medium sized businesses or larger, more established companies. Smaller companies new to our market may have more flexibility to develop on more agile platforms and have greater ability to adapt their strategies and cost structures, which may give them a competitive advantage with our current or prospective customers. We may also experience increased competition from new types of products as the options for mobile and cloud, networking and collaboration and data sharing solutions increase. Further, as our industry evolves and if our company grows, companies with which we have strategic alliances may become competitors in other product areas, or our current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, all of which may further increase the competitive pressures we face.Our new product and technology initiatives subject us to additional business, legal and competitive risks.We have transformed and continue to transform our business through several growth phases, from remote access to web app delivery, to virtualization, to mobile workspaces and to the software-defined workplace. In this transition, we are introducing new products and technologies, such as the Citrix Workspace Cloud.This strategic transformation in our business and expansion of our offerings subjects us to additional risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These risks include: •certain of our new product initiatives have a subscription model and we may not be able to accurately predict subscription renewal rates or their impact on results;•if customers do not adopt our new product or service offerings, we may be unable to recoup or realize a reasonable return on our investment in these new products and services; •sales of existing products and service offerings may be delayed while customers are investigating our new offerings;•competitive product and service offerings in emerging IT sectors may gain broad adoption before our products and services and, it may be difficult for us to displace such offerings regardless of the comparative technical merit, efficacy or cost of our products and services; •we may not be able to develop and implement effective go-to-market strategies and train our sales team and channel partners in order to effectively market offerings in product categories in which we have less experience than our competitors;•we may not be able to develop effective pricing strategies for our new products and services;•hardware, software and cloud hosting vendors may not be able to ensure interoperability with our products and offer compatible products and services to end users;•our new initiatives may be hosted by third parties whom we do not control but whose failure to prevent service disruptions, or other failures or breaches may require us compensate, indemnify or otherwise be liable to customers or third parties for business interruptions or damages that may occur.In order to be successful, we must attract, engage, retain and integrate key employees and have adequate succession plans in place, and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, engage, retain, and integrate qualified executives and other key employees throughout all areas of our business. Identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining highly-skilled managerial, technical, sales and services, finance and marketing personnel are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Failure to successfully  16hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Over the past six months, we have appointed three new executives to key leadership positions. This and further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of products in our industry. The loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring may harm our business and results of operations. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution, which may likewise harm our business and results of operations.Adverse changes in general global economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results.As a globally operated company, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and market conditions. Continued economic uncertainty across all geographic locations may adversely affect sales of our products and services and may result in longer sales cycles, slower adoption of technologies and increased price competition. Additionally, in response to sustained economic uncertainty, many governmental organizations outside the U.S. that are current or prospective customers for our products and services continue to make, significant spending cutbacks which may continue to reduce the amount of government spending on IT and demand for our products and services from government organizations. Adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business.Industry volatility may result in increased competition. The industry has been volatile and there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving and volatile industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had previously offered. Further, some companies are making plans or may be under pressure by stockholders to divest businesses and such divestitures may result in stronger competition. Additionally, as IT companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving delivery network, workspace services and mobility apps markets, these companies continue to seek to deliver comprehensive IT solutions to end users and combine enterprise-level hardware and software solutions that may compete with our virtualization, mobility and collaboration and data sharing solutions. These consolidators or potential consolidators may have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources and brand loyalty than we do, and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and services. The companies resulting from these possible combinations may create more compelling product and service offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility or sales and marketing support for such offerings than we can. These heightened competitive pressures could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues or revenue growth rates, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services or cyberattacks on our networks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Use of our products and services may involve the transmission and/or storage of data, including in certain instances customers' business and personally identifiable information. Thus, maintaining the security of products, computer networks and data storage resources is important as security breaches could result in product or service vulnerabilities and loss of and/or unauthorized access to confidential information. We devote significant resources to addressing security vulnerabilities in our products and services through our efforts to engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features in our products and services, deploy security updates to address security vulnerabilities and seeking to respond to known security incidents in sufficient time to minimize any potential adverse impact. Despite our preventive efforts, in 2013, we discovered that unauthorized parties had penetrated certain of our systems resulting in us taking certain remedial measures. Generally speaking, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions, product or service vulnerabilities or cause shutdowns. These perpetrators of cyberattacks also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware and other malicious software programs that directly or indirectly, for example, though a vendor or other third-party, attack our products and services, our networks or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, services and networks. Because techniques used by these perpetrators to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until long after being launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We can make no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, timely and adequately address, or mitigate the negative effects of cyberattacks or other security breaches. 17A breach of our security measures as a result of third-party action, malware, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise could result in (among other consequences):•harm to our reputation or brand, which could lead some customers to seek to cancel subscriptions, stop using certain of our products or services, reduce or delay future purchases of our products or services, or use competing products or services;•individual and/or class action lawsuits, which could result in financial judgments against us or the payment of settlement amounts, which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs;•state or federal enforcement action, which could result in fines and/or penalties or other sanctions and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs; and/or•in the event that we or one of our customers were the victim of a cyberattack or other security breach, additional costs associated with responding to such breach, such as investigative and remediation costs, and the costs of providing data owners or others with notice of the breach, legal fees, the costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by such customers' credit card issuers, and costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise and additional monitoring of systems for further fraudulent activity.Any of these actions could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations.We recently implemented a restructuring program, which could have a material negative impact on our business. To increase strategic focus and operational efficiency, at the end of January 2015, we implemented a restructuring program that will affect approximately 700 full-time and 200 contractor positions. We anticipate completing the majority of the activities related to our restructuring program by the end of 2015. We may incur additional restructuring costs or not realize the expected benefits of these new initiatives. Further, we could experience delays, business disruptions, decreased productivity, unanticipated employee turnover and increased litigation related costs in connection with the restructuring and other efficiency improvement activities, and there can be no assurance that our estimates of the savings achievable by the restructuring will be realized. As a result, our restructuring and our related cost reduction activities could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.Regulation of the Web and telecommunications, privacy and data security may adversely affect sales of our products and result in increased compliance costs. As Web commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies and industry groups becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely with respect to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal, financial and consumer information as regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, privacy and data security. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws and industry standards in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. The application of existing laws to cloud-based solutions is particularly uncertain and cloud-based solutions may be subject to further regulation, the impact of which cannot be fully understood at this time. Moreover, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data and privacy practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data and privacy practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Also, any new regulation, or interpretation of existing regulation, imposing greater fees or taxes on Web-based services, such as collaboration and data sharing services and audio services, or restricting information exchange over the Web, could result in a decline in the use and adversely affect sales of our products and our results of operations.Our Mobility Apps products may involve the storage and transmission of protected health information, or PHI, that is subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA. HIPAA, amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH ACT, has significantly increased the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under HIPAA. As a result of the HITECH ACT, business associates who have access to PHI provided by hospitals, healthcare providers, health insurance companies and other covered entities are now directly subject to HIPAA, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. To the extent we are required to comply with HIPAA's data security provisions, we may be liable for sanctions and penalties for any failure to so comply. Furthermore, we may be required to incur additional expenses in order to comply with the HITECH Act and any further amendments to and/or modifications of these requirements. 18Our products could contain errors that could delay the release of new products or that may not be detected until after our products are shipped.Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third-party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may experience outages, data loss and service disruptions of our Mobility Apps products and Delivery Networking products, which could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.The increasing user traffic and complexity of our Mobility Apps products, specifically those using Voice over Internet protocol and high-definition video conferencing features, and Delivery Networking products demands more computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of time and cost to adequately resource our Mobility Apps products and Delivery Networking products and to maintain and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle the increased traffic of our collaboration and data products. Maintaining and expanding the capacity and geographic footprint of our infrastructure is expensive and complex. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary service outages and temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the perceived quality and reliability of our services, and result in liability claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential customers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Certain of the offerings from our Enterprise and Service Provider division have sales cycles which are long and/or unpredictable which could cause significant variability and unpredictability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. Generally, a substantial portion of our large and medium-sized customers implement our Workspace Services solutions on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. We have a long sales cycle for these departmental or enterprise-wide sales because:•our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale; •our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services; •our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and •before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. Our long sales cycle for these products makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. In addition, the long sales cycle for these products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period, and large projects with significant IT components may fail to meet our customers’ business requirements or be canceled before delivery, which likewise could adversely affect our revenue and operating results for any particular period.Similarly, our ByteMobile Smart Capacity solutions have a long and unpredictable sales cycle, and the timing of the related revenue is difficult to predict. Because sales of our ByteMobile Smart Capacity solutions are focused on the telecommunications market, we are subject to lengthy internal budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that such customers generally require.Overall the timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Our quarterly sales have historically reflected an uneven pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of a quarter’s total sales occur in the last month, weeks and days of each quarter. In addition, our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and such fluctuations are generally most significant in our fourth fiscal quarter, which we believe is due to the impact on revenue from the availability (or lack thereof) in our customers’ fiscal year budgets and an increase in expenses resulting from amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans as performance milestones are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. In  19addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer.If we fail to convert our free users to paying customers or retain existing customers of our Mobility Apps products, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected.Initially, many users of our Mobility Apps products utilize such products free of charge through free trials or freemium versions of the products or lower priced/limited functionality versions of the products. We seek to convert these free trial users to paying customers and, where appropriate, we encourage customers utilizing a lower priced/limited functionality versions of our product to upgrade to higher priced/full functionality versions. If our rate of conversion or upgrade suffers for any reason, our revenue may decline. We sell our Mobility Apps products pursuant to subscription agreements. Such customers may not renew their subscription after their subscription period expires. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer cancellation, and our customers’ continuation rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our Mobility Apps products, the prices of such products, the prices of products offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers fail to renew or cancel their subscriptions for our Mobility Apps products our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted.Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain and further access large enterprise customers. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and access large enterprise customers by adding effective value-added distributors, or VADs, system integrators, or SIs, and other partners, as well as expanding our direct sales teams and consulting services. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and purchase of multiple years of subscription and maintenance up-front and generally have longer sales cycles. By allowing these customers to purchase multiple years of subscription or maintenance up-front and by granting special pricing, such as bundled pricing or discounts, to these large customers, we may have to defer recognition of some or all of the revenue from such sales. This deferral, compounded with the longer sales cycles, could reduce our revenues and operating profits for a given reporting period and make revenues difficult to predict. Changes to our licensing or subscription renewal programs, or bundling of our products, could negatively impact the timing of our recognition of revenue. We continually re-evaluate our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future products and services. We could implement new licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including promotional trade-up programs or offering specified enhancements to our current and future product and service lines. Such changes could result in deferring revenue recognition until the specified enhancement is delivered or at the end of the contract term as opposed to upon the initial shipment or licensing of our software product. We could implement different licensing models in certain circumstances, for which we would recognize licensing fees over a longer period, including offering additional products in a SaaS model. Changes to our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including the timing of the release of enhancements, upgrades, maintenance releases, the term of the contract, discounts, promotions and other factors, could impact the timing of the recognition of revenue for our products, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.Further, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue that we receive from the sale of certain bundled products if we have not established vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, for the undelivered elements in the arrangement in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. A delay in the recognition of revenue from sales of these bundled products may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. Similarly, companies that we acquire may operate with different cost and margin structures, which could further cause fluctuations in our operating results and adversely affect our operating margins. Moreover, if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected.Sales and renewals of our license updates and maintenance products constitute a large portion of our deferred revenue. We anticipate that sales and renewals of our license updates and maintenance products will continue to constitute a substantial portion of our deferred revenue. Our ability to continue to generate both recognized and deferred revenue from our license updates and maintenance products will depend on our customers continuing to perceive value in automatic delivery of our software upgrades and enhancements. A decrease in demand for our license updates and maintenance products could occur as a result of a decrease in demand for our Workspace Services solutions and our Delivery Networking products. If our  20customers do not continue to purchase our license updates and maintenance products, our deferred revenue would decrease significantly and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.As we expand our international footprint, we could become subject to additional risks that could harm our business.We conduct significant sales and customer support, development and engineering operations in countries outside of the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we derived approximately 45.2% of our revenues from sales outside the United States. Our continued growth and profitability could require us to further expand our international operations. To successfully maintain and expand international sales, we may need to establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. In addition, there is significant competition for entry into high growth markets where we may seek to expand, such as China, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which could adversely affect the results of our international operations. These risks include: •compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements; •variability of foreign economic, political and labor conditions; •changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by U.S. export laws; •regional data privacy laws that apply to the transmission of our customers’ data across international borders;•health or similar issues such as pandemic or epidemic;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;•longer accounts receivable payment cycles; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •difficulties in enforcing and protecting intellectual property rights; •burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and •as we generate cash flow in non-U.S. jurisdictions, if required, we may experience difficulty transferring such funds to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot guarantee that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or results of operations. We rely on indirect distribution channels and major distributors that we do not control.We rely significantly on independent distributors and resellers to market and distribute our products and services. Our distributors generally sell through resellers. Our distributor and reseller base is relatively concentrated. We maintain and periodically revise our sales incentive programs for our independent distributors and resellers, and such program revisions may adversely impact our results of operations. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential distributors and resellers to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. The loss of or reduction in sales to our distributors or resellers could materially reduce our revenues. Further, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances with certain distributors. The financial condition of our distributors could deteriorate and distributors could significantly delay or default on their payment obligations. Any significant delays, defaults or terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are in the process of diversifying our base of channel relationships by adding and training more channel partners with abilities to reach larger enterprise customers and to sell our newer products and services. We are also in the process of building relationships with new types of channel partners, such as systems integrators, service providers and OEMs. In addition to this diversification of our partner base, we will need to maintain a healthy mix of channel members who service smaller customers. We may need to add and remove distribution partners to maintain customer satisfaction and a steady adoption rate of our products, which could increase our operating expenses. Through our Citrix Partner Network and other programs, we are currently investing, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these channels, which could reduce our profits if such channels do not result in increased revenues.Our Delivery Networking business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays in the supply of hardware or hardware components from our third-party sources.We rely on a concentrated number of third-party suppliers, who provide hardware or hardware components for our Delivery Networking products, and contract manufacturers. If we are required to change suppliers, there could be a delay in the supply of our hardware or hardware components and our ability to meet the demands of our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of Delivery Networking sales and existing or potential customers and delayed revenue recognition and adversely affect our results of operations. While we have not, to date, experienced any material difficulties or delays in the manufacture and assembly of our Delivery Networking products, our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with  21applicable regulations, or the need to implement costly or time-consuming protocols to comply with applicable regulations (including regulations related to conflict minerals), equipment malfunction, natural disasters and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand.We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our future operating results. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates, which could adversely affect our future revenue and overall operating results. In order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar, we use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies as we deem appropriate for a portion of our expenses, which are denominated in the local currency of our foreign subsidiaries. We generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks one year in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses for those currencies to which we have the greatest exposure. When the dollar is weak, foreign currency denominated expenses will be higher, and these higher expenses will be partially offset by the gains realized from our hedging contracts. If the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower. These lower expenses will in turn be partially offset by the losses incurred from our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the one year timeframe for which we hedge our risk and there is no guarantee that we will accurately forecast the expenses we are hedging. Changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect future revenue and operating results. In addition, as a result of entering into these contracts with counterparties who are unrelated to us, the risk of a counterparty default exists in fulfilling the hedge contract. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions. If we fail to effectively manage our growth and if our new initiatives do not generate strong margins, our future operating results could be adversely affected.Historically, we have experienced continued growth in the scope of our operations, the number of our employees and our geographic footprint. In addition to internal business initiatives, we have acquired both domestic and international companies. This growth and the assimilation of acquired operations and their employees could continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources as our future acquisition activities accelerate our business expansion. We need to continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our products and services in a timely and cost-effective way and we may not meet our scalability expectations. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our expanding product lines, our marketing and sales organizations and our client support organization to the extent required for any increase in installations of our products.Further, our operating margins in our new initiatives may be lower than those we have achieved in our more mature products and services markets, and our new initiatives may not generate sufficient revenue to recoup our investments in them. We may experience a decline in gross margin as the mix of our revenue may include more products with a hardware component and increased sales of our services, both of which have a higher cost than our software products. If we are not able to recoup our investment by normalizing our margins or reducing our costs through integration of new initiatives it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to fund our product development efforts and acquisitions or fulfill our future obligations.Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our operations and product development efforts, including the payment of cash consideration in acquisitions and the payment of our other obligations, depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to liquidate our investments, repatriate cash and investments held in our overseas subsidiaries, sell assets or raise necessary funds through equity or debt financings when needed or desirable. An inability to fund our operations or fulfill outstanding obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information, please refer to “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 22RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS AND STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPSAcquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we anticipate at the time of an acquisition.Our growth is dependent upon market growth, our ability to enhance existing products and services, and our ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis. In recent years, we have addressed and intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines and/or technologies. However, acquisitions, including those of high-technology companies, are inherently risky. We cannot provide any assurance that any of our acquisitions or future acquisitions will be successful in helping us reach our financial and strategic goals. The risks we commonly encounter in undertaking, managing and integrating acquisitions are:•an uncertain revenue and earnings stream from the acquired company, which could dilute our earnings;•difficulties and delays integrating the personnel, operations, technologies, products and systems of the acquired companies; •undetected errors or unauthorized use of a third-party’s code in products of the acquired companies; •our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; •challenges with implementing adequate and appropriate controls, procedures and policies in the acquired business;•difficulties managing or integrating an acquired company’s technologies or lines of business;•potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-process research and development; •entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions and which are highly competitive; •the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; •potential difficulties integrating the acquired products and services into our sales channel;•assuming pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; •being subject to unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company’s practices; and•intellectual property claims or disputes.Our failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquired companies due to these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, our 2015 operating plan assumes a significant level of financial performance from our acquisitions that were completed during 2013 and 2014 and if these acquired companies or technologies do not perform as we expect, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.In addition, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. We expect that other companies in our industry will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for businesses and technologies that we would likely pursue, and our competitors may have greater resources than we do to complete these acquisitions.If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as product related intangible assets, from our acquisitions. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives. However, we do amortize certain product related technologies, trademarks, patents and other intangibles and we periodically evaluate them for impairment. We review goodwill for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value, at the reporting unit level, which for us also represents our operating segments. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, estimating the applicable tax rates, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, projecting the future industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Although we believe the assumptions, judgments and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions, judgments and estimates, materially affect our results of operations. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including changes in our reporting structure, could materially affect our determinations of fair value. In addition, due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in 2014, we made changes to our business strategy and product portfolio that  23partially contributed to non-cash impairment charges of $59.3 million. Also, we may make divestitures of businesses in the future. If we determine that any of the goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquisitions is impaired, then we would be required to reduce the value of those assets or to write them off completely by taking a charge to current earnings. If we are required to write down or write off all or a portion of those assets, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.Our inability to maintain or develop our strategic and technology relationships could adversely affect our business.We have several strategic and technology relationships with large and complex organizations, such as Microsoft and Cisco, and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services. We depend on the companies with which we have strategic relationships to successfully test our products, to incorporate our technology into their products and to market and sell those products. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic relationships or that they will continue in the future. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth. However, such relationships carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic relationship and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development, reduced sales or other operational difficulties and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND BRAND RECOGNITIONOur efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our business.We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our source code, innovations and other intellectual property, all of which offer only limited protection. The loss of any material trade secret, trademark, tradename, patent or copyright could have a material adverse effect on our business. Despite our precautions, it could be possible for unauthorized third parties to infringe our intellectual property rights or misappropriate, copy, disclose or reverse engineer our proprietary information, including certain portions of our products or to otherwise obtain and use our proprietary source code. In addition, our ability to monitor and control such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. If we cannot protect our intellectual property from infringement and our proprietary source code against unauthorized copying, disclosure or use, loss of our market share could result, including as a result of unauthorized third parties’ development of products and technologies similar to or better than ours.The scope of our patent protection may be affected by changes in legal precedent and patent office interpretation of these precedents. Further, any patents owned by us could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of protection we seek, if at all; and if issued, may not provide any meaningful protection or competitive advantage.Our ability to protect our proprietary rights could be affected by differences in international law and the enforceability of licenses. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. For example, we derive a significant portion of our sales from licensing our products under “click-to-accept” license agreements that are not signed by licensees and through electronic enterprise customer licensing arrangements that are delivered electronically, all of which could be unenforceable under the laws of many foreign jurisdictions in which we license our products. Moreover, with respect to the various confidentiality, license or other agreements we utilize with third parties related to their use of our products and technologies, there is no guarantee that such parties will abide by the terms of such agreements.Our products and services, including products obtained through acquisitions, could infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which could result in material litigation costs.We are increasingly subject to patent infringement claims and may in the future be subject to an increased number of claims, including claims alleging the unauthorized use of a third-party's code in our products. This may occur for a variety of reasons, including:•the expansion of our product lines, such as our Workspace Services and Delivery Networking products, and related technical services and expansion of our Mobility Apps products, through product development and acquisitions; •an increase in patent infringement litigation commenced by non-practicing entities;  24•an increase in the number of competitors in our industry segments and the resulting increase in the number of related products and services and the overlap in the functionality of those products and services; •an increase in the number of our competitors and third parties that use their own intellectual property rights to limit our freedom to operate and exploit our products, or to otherwise block us from taking full advantage of our markets; •our products and services may rely on the technology of others and, therefore, require us to obtain intellectual property licenses from third parties in order for us to commercialize our products or services and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms; and •the unauthorized or improperly licensed use of third-party code in our product development process. Further, responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity or merit, could result in costly litigation. Further, intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following:•pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement;•stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property;•obtain a license from the owner of the asserted intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or•redesign the challenged technology, which could be time consuming and costly, or not be accomplished. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be impacted.Our use of “open source” software could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation.The products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, “Apache-style” licenses, “Berkeley Software Distribution,” “BSD-style” licenses, and other open source licenses. Even though we attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, it is possible that not all instances of our open source code usage are properly reviewed. Further, although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use such that we have not triggered any of these conditions, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation or enforcement of many of the terms of these types of licenses. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations. If our defenses were not successful, we could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the distribution of our products that contained open source software, and required to comply with the terms of the applicable license, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in an unintended manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to publicly release the source code of our proprietary software, offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon incorporating or using the open source software, and/or license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license.In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide technology support, maintenance, warranties or assurance of title or controls on the origin of the software.Our business depends on maintaining and protecting the strength of our collection of brands.The Citrix product and service brands that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the Citrix product and service brands is critical to expanding our base of customers and partners. We may be subject to reputational risks and our brand loyalty may decline if others adopt the same or confusingly similar marks in an effort to misappropriate and profit on our brand name and do not provide the same level of quality as is delivered by our products and services. Additionally, we may be unable to use some of our brands in certain countries or unable to secure trademark rights in certain jurisdictions where we do business. In order to police, maintain, enhance and protect our brands, we may be required to make substantial investments that may not be successful. If we fail to police, maintain, enhance and protect the Citrix brands, if we incur excessive expenses in this effort or if customers or potential customers are confused by others’ trademarks, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 25If we lose access to third-party licenses, releases of our products could be delayed.We believe that we will continue to rely, in part, on third-party licenses to enhance and differentiate our products. Third-party licensing arrangements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:•undetected errors or unauthorized use of another person’s code in the third party’s software; •disagreement over the scope of the license and other key terms, such as royalties payable and indemnification protection; •infringement actions brought by third-parties; •that third parties will create solutions that directly compete with our products; and•termination or expiration of the license. If we lose or are unable to maintain any of these third-party licenses or are required to modify software obtained under third-party licenses, it could delay the release of our products. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK, OUR DEBT AND EXTERNAL FACTORS Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes that result in a disruption of our operations could negatively impact our results of operations.Our worldwide operations are dependent on our network infrastructure, internal technology systems and website. Significant portions of our computer equipment, intellectual property resources and personnel, including critical resources dedicated to research and development and administrative support functions are presently located at our corporate headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, an area of the country that is particularly prone to hurricanes, and at our various locations in California, an area of the country that is particularly prone to earthquakes. We also have operations in various domestic and international locations that expose us to additional diverse risks. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophes, such as telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, fires or terrorist attacks, at any of the locations in which we or our key partners, suppliers and customers do business, could cause interruptions in our operations. For example, hurricanes have passed through southern Florida causing extensive damage to the region. In addition, even in the absence of direct damage to our operations, large disasters, terrorist attacks or other casualty events could have a significant impact on our partners’, suppliers’ and customers’ businesses, which in turn could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Extensive or multiple disruptions in our operations, or our partners’, suppliers’ or customers’ businesses, due to natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have aggregate indebtedness of approximately $1.4 billion that we have incurred in connection with the issuance of our Convertible Notes and under our Credit Agreement, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our future indebtedness, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Notes 12 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 for information regarding our Convertible Notes and our Credit Facility.In addition, holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Further, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, we will be required to make cash payments for each $1,000 in principal amount of Convertible Notes converted of at least the lesser of $1,000 and the sum of the daily conversion values thereunder. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Convertible Notes surrendered therefor or Convertible Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Convertible Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Convertible Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Convertible Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Convertible Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under  26the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under our Credit Agreements or agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Convertible Notes or make cash payments upon conversions of the Convertible Notes.Further, the Credit Agreement requires the Company to maintain certain leverage and interest ratios and contains various affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, change our business or incur subsidiary indebtedness. If we fail to comply with these covenants or any other provision of the Credit Agreement, we may be in default under the Credit Agreement, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments of such default. Upon an event of default under our Credit Agreement, if not otherwise amended or waived, the affected lenders could accelerate the repayment of any outstanding principal and accrued interest on their outstanding loans and terminate their commitments to lend additional funds, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position and, further, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness.In addition, our indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could:•make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;•place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and•limit our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund acquisitions, for working capital and for other general corporate purposes. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase.The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, or ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders’ equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results as reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the instrument’s coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results.In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected. 27A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are held overseas. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash domestically in order to fund our U.S. operations, stock repurchases and strategic opportunities, and to service our debt, we may incur a significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the future. As of December 31, 2014, $1.38 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were held in foreign countries. These amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the U.S. without triggering significant adverse tax consequences in the U.S. As a result, if the cash generated by our domestic operations is not sufficient to fund our domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities, and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to obtain new credit facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. Such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders’ ownership. Furthermore, lenders may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign sources of liquidity and incur a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products, respond to competitive pressures, repurchase outstanding stock or repay our outstanding indebtedness. In any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted.Our portfolios of liquid securities and strategic investments may lose value or become impaired. Our investment portfolio consists of agency securities, corporate securities, money market funds, municipal (including auction rate) securities, government securities and commercial paper. Although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the credit risk associated with investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting exposure to any one issuer depending on credit quality, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value, become impaired, or suffer from illiquidity.In addition, we invest in private companies to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity or debt instruments, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. The companies in which we invest may fail or lose value because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or participate in liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail or lose value, we could be required to impair or write-off all or part of our investment in that company.Changes in our tax rates or our exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our operating results and financial condition.Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the geographic mix of our revenue, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance, however, that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be further affected by lapses in or expiration of the availability of tax credits, including the federal research and development tax credit. This tax credit expired on December 31, 2014, and may not be renewed or extended, or if renewed or extended, may be renewed or extended on terms significantly less favorable to us or on terms resulting in our disqualification from the benefits of the tax credit.  28Our stock price could be volatile, particularly during times of economic uncertainty and volatility in domestic and international stock markets, and you could lose the value of your investment.Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future. Your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include:•actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; analyst reports or recommendations; •rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our or our competitors’ operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements; and •other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market in general, The NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the market for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These fluctuations may continue in the future and this could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of operating performance.Changes or modifications in financial accounting standards may have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations or financial condition.A change or modification in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, including the potential impact of the adoption and implementation of the May 2014 Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09 regarding revenue recognition. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could materially adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.ITEM 1B