 entitled “Risk Factors,” for more information regarding our open source technology. •Citrix CloudStack is an open source orchestration product that enables organizations to build public and private clouds.  •Citrix CloudPortal Business Manager enables organizations to provide product catalogs and billing system integration for their public clouds.•Citrix Internet Overlay Platform is our foundational technology for GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, GoToTraining, GoToAssist, GoToAssist Express and GoToManage. The platform implements one of the largest multicast overlay data networks in the world using the Internet. It provides proprietary screen-sharing technology that separately optimizes screen transmission for each endpoint device (such as a remote PC during an online meeting or remote access session).•Citrix PSTN/VoIP Bridge is core technology that allows the seamless integration of PSTN/VoIP audio conferencing. This technology is used extensively in our Web-based collaboration and communication products including GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, GoToTraining, and Hi-Def Corporate.•HDFaces in GoToMeeting delivers high-definition video conferencing and one-to-many video streaming over the public Internet. It includes proprietary network transport protocols and transcoding software that optimize video quality for each endpoint device.Innovation is a core Citrix competency. We have many additional unique inventions that are important enablers of our continued leadership in desktop and application virtualization, Web collaboration, cloud networking and virtual infrastructure. Customers We take a unique approach to solving the challenges of globalization, datacenter consolidation, regulatory compliance, disaster preparedness and competitiveness faced by our customers. In addition, we help their IT organizations change the cost, complexity, security and inflexibility of enterprise computing. Our products provide new capabilities for collaboration, communication, user support, desktop management, networking and datacenter management, and we believe they consistently deliver lower business and computing costs. At the same time, our solutions significantly increase business agility, helping our customers to quickly adapt to business, economic and environmental changes. The strategic value that we offer requires us to engage with multiple buyers, each with a different perspective on the problems we solve. We believe that the primary IT buyers involved in decision-making related to virtual computing solutions are the following:•Strategic IT Executives including chief information officers, chief technology officers and vice presidents of infrastructure, who have responsibility for ensuring that IT services are enablers to business initiatives and are delivered with the best performance, availability, security and cost.•Desktop Operations Managers who are responsible for managing Windows Desktop environments including corporate help desks.•IT Infrastructure Managers who are responsible for managing and delivering Windows-based applications.•Network Architects who are responsible for delivering Web-based applications who have primary responsibility for the WAN infrastructure for all applications. •Server Operations Managers who are responsible for specifying datacenter systems and managing daily operations.•Individuals and prosumers, who are responsible for choosing personal solutions and helping small businesses select simple-to-use computing solutions.•Small Business Owners who are responsible for choosing the systems needed to support their business goals, such as SaaS.We offer perpetual and term-based software licenses for our products, along with annual subscriptions for software updates, technical support and SaaS. Perpetual licenses allow our customers to use the version of software initially purchased into perpetuity, while term-based licenses are limited to a specified period of time. Software update subscriptions give customers the right to upgrade to new software versions if and when any updates are delivered during the subscription term. Perpetual license software products come primarily in electronic-based forms and, in selected markets, we offer pre-packaged shrink-wrap products to meet local customer needs. Our SaaS products are accessed over the Internet for usage during the subscription period. Our hardware appliances come pre-loaded with software for which customers can purchase perpetual licenses and annual support and maintenance.9Table of ContentsTechnology Relationships We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future products and go-to-market. These relationships include cross-licensing, OEM, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers. Microsoft Since our inception, we have had a number of license agreements with Microsoft, including patent cross-licenses and source code licensing agreements that have provided us access to source code for versions of Microsoft Windows Server. These agreements are not required for our software development processes on Windows Server and do not provide for payments to or from Microsoft. The agreements are designed to allow Citrix to provide technical support for our products that run on the Microsoft Windows Server platform, including XenDesktop and XenApp. Additionally, we have collaborated with Microsoft on various technologies, including terminal services, cloud networking and virtualization.CiscoWe have a technology collaboration with Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, to develop and deliver solutions that help customers simplify and accelerate large-scale desktop virtualization deployments, including high-definition virtual desktops and applications and improved end user experiences, over a highly secure Citrix® HDX™-enabled Cisco network. We licensed the specifications of ICA to Cisco as part of this agreement.Additional Relationships Through our Citrix Ready program, more than 21,000 products have been verified to work with Citrix technologies. In addition, numerous partners proactively incorporate Citrix products and technologies such as Receiver, XenServer, XenDesktop, XenClient, XenApp, NetScaler, CloudGateway, VDI-in-a-Box and HDX (ICA) technology into their customer offerings. Our HDX and Receiver technologies are often included with or offered for thin clients, industry-standard servers and mobile devices, such as Apple's iPhone and iPad, Windows Mobile, Blackberry and Google Android devices. Licensees include Dell, Fujitsu, Hewlett Packard and Wyse Technologies, among others. Our XenClient technology was developed in cooperation with Intel and is licensed for shipment by desktop computer manufacturers, including Dell and Hewlett Packard. Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and core technologies in the virtual computing infrastructure market and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing products. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers, both directly from and indirectly through our channel distributors. We believe that our software development teams and core technologies represent a significant competitive advantage for us. Included in the software development teams is a group focused on research activities that include prototyping ways to integrate emerging technologies and standards into our product offerings, such as emerging Web services technologies, management standards and Microsoft's newest technologies. Many groups within the software development teams have expertise in Extensible Markup Language, or XML, based software development, integration of acquired technology, multi-tier Web-based application development and deployment, SSL secure access, hypervisor technologies, cloud technologies, networking technologies, VoIP-based audio technology, Web-based video technology and building SaaS. We maintain teams located close to Microsoft in Redmond, Washington, which are focused on enhancing and adding value to the next generation of Microsoft Windows Server, virtualization and management products. We incurred research and development expenses of approximately $343.7 million in 2011, $326.6 million in 2010 and $282.0 million in 2009. Sales, Marketing and Services We market and license our products and services through multiple channels worldwide, including VARs, VADs, SIs, independent software vendors, or ISVs, direct over-the-Web and OEMs. These distribution channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. We provide training and certification to integrators, VARs and consultants for a full-range of Citrix-based infrastructure products, solutions and services through our Citrix Partner Network program to members known as Citrix Solution Advisors™. In addition, our Online Services division provides SaaS through direct corporate sales and direct over-the-Web through our websites. In 2011, we continued to focus on increasing the productivity of our existing partners and building capacity through recruitment of new partners to sell and implement our expanding product portfolio. Our channel incentive program, Citrix Advisor Rewards™, is an innovative influencer program that rewards our partners for registering projects and providing value-added selling even if they do not fulfill the product. This program has helped limit channel conflict and increase partner loyalty to us. We regularly take actions to improve the effectiveness of our partner programs and to strengthen our channel 10Table of Contentsrelationships, including managing non-performing partners, adding new partners with expertise in selling into new markets and forming additional relationships with global and regional SIs and ISVs. SIs and ISVs have become a more substantial part of our strategy in the large enterprise and government markets. The SI program includes members such as Accenture Ltd., Atos Origin, Computer Sciences Corporation, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Data Services, Fujitsu-Siemens Computers GmbH, Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM Global Services, Infosys Technologies Limited and TATA Consultancy Services Limited, among others. The ISV program has a strong representation from targeted industry verticals such as healthcare, financial services and telecommunications. Members in the ISV program include Cerner Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation, ESRI, McKesson Corporation, Microsoft, Oracle Corporation, Sage Group plc, SAP AG and Siemens Medical Health Solutions, among many others. Our corporate marketing organization provides sales event support, sales collateral, advertising, direct mail and public relations coverage to our indirect channels to aid in market development and in attracting new customers. Our partner development organization actively supports our VADs and VARs to improve their commitment and capabilities with Citrix solutions. Our customer sales organization consists of field-based systems sales engineers and corporate sales professionals who work directly with our largest customers and coordinate integration services provided by our VARs and SIs. Additional sales personnel, working in central locations and in the field, provide additional support including recruitment of prospective partners and technical training with respect to our products. Although we work with multiple VADs and VARs, one distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted for 17% of our net revenues in 2011, 17% of our total net revenues in 2010 and 14% of our total net revenues in 2009. Our channel distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its subsidiaries, each of which covers different countries or regions. Each of these agreements is separately negotiated and is independent of any other contract (such as a master distribution agreement). None of these contracts was individually responsible for over 10% of our total net revenues in each of the last three fiscal years. In addition, there was no individual VAR that accounted for over 10% of our total net revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009.The Citrix Partner Network™ includes three categories of partners: Citrix Solution Advisors™, Citrix Ready Technology Partners™, and Citrix Global SIs™. This network represents the knowledge, skills and experience of the entire spectrum of our partners around the world, and makes it easier for end-users to engage their services and benefit from their solutions. Equally important, the Citrix Partner Network is designed to help partners build their business by sharing in opportunities for virtualization and networking optimization solutions that arise from mutual customers and complement the sale of their own products. We are not obligated to accept product returns from our channel distributors under any conditions, unless the product item is defective in manufacture. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 for information regarding our revenue recognition policy.International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for approximately 43% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, 43% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 44% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. For detailed information on our international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.Segment RevenueOur revenues are derived from sales of Enterprise division products, which primarily include our Desktop Solutions, Datacenter and Cloud Solutions, Cloud-based Data Solutions and related technical services and from our Online Services division's Web collaboration, remote access and support services. The Enterprise division and the Online Services division constitute our two reportable segments. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.OperationsFor our Cloud Networking products, including NetScaler, Access Gateway and Branch Repeater, we employ manufacturing capabilities through independent contractors to provide a redundant source of manufacture and assembly. Independent contractors provide us with the flexibility needed to meet our customer product and delivery requirements. We have manufacturing relationships primarily with Flextronics, Super Micro Computer, Inc. and Hewlett Packard, under which we have subcontracted the majority of our manufacturing activity. These third-party contract manufacturers also provide final test, warehousing and shipping services. This subcontracting activity extends from prototypes to full production and includes activities such as material procurement, final assembly, test, control, shipment to our customers and repairs. Together with our contract manufacturers, we design, specify and monitor the tests that are required to meet internal and external quality standards. Our contract manufacturers manufacture our products based on forecasted demand for our products. Each of the contract manufacturers procures components necessary to assemble the products in our forecast and test the products according 11Table of Contentsto our specifications. We are dual-sourced on our components, however, in some instances, those sources may be located in the same geographic area. Accordingly, if a natural disaster occurred in one of those areas, we may need to seek additional sources. Products are then shipped to our channel distributors, VARs or end-users. If the products go unsold for specified periods of time, we may incur carrying charges or obsolete material charges for products ordered to meet our forecast or customer orders. In 2011, we did not experience any material difficulties or significant delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products.We control all purchasing, inventory, scheduling, order processing and accounting functions related to our operations. For our software products, production, warehousing and shipping are performed by our independent contractor HP, Ireland. Master software CD-ROMs, development of user manuals, packaging designs, initial product quality control and testing are primarily performed at our facilities. In some cases, independent contractors also duplicate CD-ROMs, print documentation and package and assemble products to our specifications. While it is generally our practice to promptly ship product upon receipt of properly finalized purchase orders, we sometimes have orders that have not shipped upon receipt of a purchase order. Although the amount of such product license orders may vary, the amount, if any, of such orders at the end of a fiscal year is not material to our business. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance.We believe that our fourth quarter revenues and expenses are affected by a number of seasonal factors, including the lapse of many corporations' fiscal year budgets and an increase in amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans due to compensation plan accelerators that are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. Such factors historically have resulted in first quarter revenues in any year being lower than the immediately preceding fourth quarter. We expect this trend to continue through the first quarter of 2012. In addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues. Competition We sell our products in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. As the markets for our products and services continue to develop, additional companies, including those with significant market presence in the computer appliances, software and networking industries, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “-Technology Relationships” and Part I- entitled “Risk Factors”  included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Available InformationOur Internet address is http://www.citrix.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2011, we had 6,936 employees. We believe our relations with employees are good. In certain countries outside the United States, our relations with employees are governed by labor regulations that provide for specific terms of employment between our company and our employees.14Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain “forward-looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements concerning new products, product development and offerings of products and services, market positioning, distribution and sales channels, our partners and other strategic or technology relationships, financial information and results of operations for future periods, product and price competition, strategy and growth initiatives, seasonal factors, natural disasters, stock-based compensation, licensing and subscription renewal programs, international operations and expansion, investment transactions and valuations of investments and derivative instruments, reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, tax matters, the finalization of our tax settlement with the IRS, acquisitions, stock repurchases, changes in accounting rules or guidance, changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions and credit markets, delays or reductions in technology purchases, liquidity, litigation matters, and intellectual property matters constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition could vary materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYAdverse changes in general economic conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business, particularly in the United States and Europe, could adversely affect our operating results.As a global company, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and market conditions. The worldwide economy underwent unprecedented turmoil in the past few years and continues to experience stock market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, financial instability related to the sovereign debt situation in Europe, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and economic uncertainties. Although some of these conditions appear to be abating, there are a number of mixed indicators, the severity and length of time these economic and market conditions may persist is unknown, and the rate and pace of recovery in individual economies is also uncertain. The continuing uncertainty about future economic conditions, particularly in European markets, could negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases. As a result, we could experience fewer orders, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business, particularly in Europe.Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market.The demand for our products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. Moreover, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain as companies continue to reassess their spending for technology projects. If our current and prospective customers engage in restructuring and other efforts to cut costs they may significantly reduce their information technology expenditures. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Desktop Solutions are part of a new way of managing desktops, and the growing market for this line of products and services remains uncertain and may result in slower revenue growth than currently expected.While we have established a very large installed customer base in the application virtualization market due to our early success applying this solution to remote access challenges, applying this technology to desktops is part of a new way of managing desktops, which is establishing a larger, encompassing market defined as desktop virtualization. Our Desktop 15Table of ContentsSolutions offerings are based on this emerging technology platform, the success of which will depend on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with adopting desktop virtualization solutions. Although we have experienced early success with this platform, the technology is still emerging and the market for our Desktop Solutions remains uncertain because customers may experience challenges in implementing, and a more complex deployment of, desktop virtualization. In addition, our primary competition in desktop virtualization is the existing IT practice of managing physical desktops as a device and the success of our Desktop Solutions will depend on information technology executives' continuing to rethink how desktops can be delivered as a service rather than viewing desktops as a device. To the extent that there is slower adoption of desktop virtualization solutions, the revenue growth associated with our Desktop Solutions may be slower than currently expected, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We anticipate that sales of our Desktop Solutions and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Declines and variability in demand for our Desktop Solutions could occur as a result of: •new competitive product releases and updates to existing products;•termination of our product offerings and enhancements;•potential market saturation;•technological change;•general economic conditions; or•lack of success of entities with which we have a technology relationship. If our customers do not continue to purchase our Desktop Solutions as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, modification or termination of certain of our Desktop Solutions may cause variability in our revenue and make it difficult to predict our revenue growth and trends in our Desktop Solutions as our customers adjust their purchasing decisions in response to such events. If we lose key personnel or cannot hire enough qualified employees in certain areas of our business, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in large part, upon the services of a number of key employees in certain areas of our business. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. Our ability to effectively manage our business, including any growth in our business, depends upon our ability to retain our highly-skilled managerial, technical, sales and services, finance and marketing personnel. If any of those employees leave, we will need to attract and retain replacements for them. We also may need to add key personnel in the future, including in certain key areas of our business and to develop new products, product enhancements and technologies. The market for these qualified employees is competitive. We could find it difficult to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel in adequate numbers. If we cannot add the necessary staff and resources, our ability to develop future enhancements and features to our existing or future products could be delayed. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.In addition, the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, to which we are subject, require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing equity compensation plans, including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans, and such amendments are often scrutinized by institutional shareholders and shareholder advisory services. If institutional shareholders vote, or shareholder advisory services recommend that our stockholders vote, against plans or amendments, we may not obtain the required stockholder vote, which would limit our ability to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent we are limited in the amount of equity compensation that we can provide to employees, we may incur increased cash compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We face intense competition, which could result in customer loss, fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We sell our products and services in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. For example, our ability to market our Desktop Solutions, including XenDesktop, XenApp, and other future product offerings and upgrades, could be affected by a competitor's licensing and pricing scheme for client devices, servers and applications. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new products incorporating similar features to our products could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future product and service offerings. In addition, alternative products for our Desktop Solutions and Datacenter and Cloud Solutions directly and indirectly compete with our current product lines and services. Existing or new products and services that provide alternatives to our products and services could materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. As the markets for our products and services continue 16Table of Contentsto develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software, cloud and related industries, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition. Some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had previously offered. Additionally, as IT companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving desktop and application virtualization, Web collaboration, cloud networking and virtual infrastructure markets, these companies continue to seek to deliver comprehensive IT solutions to end users and combine enterprise-level hardware and software solutions that may compete with our virtualization and Web collaboration solutions. These consolidators or potential consolidators may have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and services. The companies resulting from these possible combinations may create more compelling product and service offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility or sales and marketing support for such offerings than we can. These heightened competitive pressures could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues or revenue growth rates, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our Datacenter and Cloud Solutions initiatives present execution and competitive risks. We have announced new products and technology initiatives which aim to leverage our desktop management software products into the emerging area of cloud computing. For example, our Datacenter and Cloud Solutions initiatives offer solutions to help our customers easily and quickly move or extend key datacenter workloads to the cloud for increased availability and flexibility. These initiatives present new and difficult technology challenges. Our customers may choose not to adopt our new products or services, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures, security breaches or other quality issues. Further, the success of these new offerings depends upon the cooperation of third party hardware, software and cloud hosting vendors to provide interoperability with our products and services and to offer compatible products and services to end users.Since the cloud computing market is in the early stages of development, we expect other companies to enter this market and to introduce their own initiatives that may compete with, or not be compatible with, our cloud initiatives. These competitive initiatives could limit the degree to which other vendors develop products and services around our offerings. Additionally, our operating margins in our new initiatives may be lower than those we have achieved in our more mature products and services markets, and our new initiatives may not generate sufficient revenue to recoup our investments in them. If any of these events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Use of our SaaS offerings, including GoToMyPC, GoToMeeting, GoToAssist, GoToWebinar and ShareFile, involves the storage and transmission of customers' business and personally identifiable information. Thus, maintaining the security of computers, computer networks and data storage resources is a critical issue for us and our customers, as security breaches could result in the loss of and/or unauthorized access to this information. We devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities in our products and services through engineering more secure products and services, enhancing security and reliability features in our products and services, deploying security updates to address security vulnerabilities and seeking to respond to known security incidents in sufficient time to minimize any potential adverse impact. However, because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A breach of our security measures as a result of third-party action, computer viruses, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise could result in:•harm to our reputation or brand, which could lead some customers to seek to cancel subscriptions, stop using certain of our products or services, reduce or delay future purchases of our products or services, or use competing products or services;•individual and/or class action lawsuits, which could result in financial judgments against us and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs;•state or federal enforcement action, which could result in fines and/or penalties and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs; and/or•additional costs associated with responding to the breach, such as the costs of providing individuals and/or data 17Table of Contentsowners with notice of the breach, legal fees, the costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by credit card associations, and costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise and additional monitoring of systems for further fraudulent activity.Any of these actions could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations.Regulation of the Web, privacy and data security may adversely affect sales of our SaaS offerings and result in increased compliance costs. As Web commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies and industry groups becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely with respect to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal, financial and consumer information as regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, privacy and data security. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws and industry standards in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. The application of existing laws to cloud-based solutions is particularly uncertain and cloud-based solutions may be subject to further regulation, the impact of which cannot be fully understood at this time. Moreover, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data and privacy practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data and privacy practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Also, any new regulation, or interpretation of existing regulation, imposing greater fees or taxes on Web-based services, such as Web collaboration services and audio services, or restricting information exchange over the Web, could result in a decline in the use and adversely affect sales of our SaaS offerings and our results of operations.As we enter into a new market with our ShareFile products and integrate this business into our operations, we will be exposed to a new category of risks associated with data sharing services. In particular, ShareFile products may involve the storage and transmission of protected health information, or PHI, that is subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA. HIPAA was recently amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH ACT, which has significantly increased the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under HIPAA. As a result of the HITECH ACT, business associates who have access to PHI provided by hospitals, healthcare providers, health insurance companies and other covered entities are now directly subject to HIPAA, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. If we receive PHI from covered entities that are subject to HIPAA, we will be required to comply with HIPAA's stringent data security requirement and we may be liable for sanctions and penalties for any failure to so comply. Furthermore, we may be required to incur additional expenses in order to comply with the HITECH Act and any further amendments to and/or modifications of these requirements.Our products could contain errors that could delay the release of new products or that may not be detected until after our products are shipped. Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third-party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may experience outages, data loss and disruptions of our SaaS offerings and Datacenter and Cloud Solutions, which could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The increasing user traffic and complexity of our SaaS offerings and Datacenter and Cloud Solutions demands more computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to adequately resource our SaaS offerings and Datacenter and Cloud Solutions and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle the increased traffic of our Web collaboration products, including GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining, and to introduce new products, including our ShareFile products and related services. Maintaining and expanding the capacity and geographic footprint of our infrastructure is expensive and complex. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary service outages and temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the perceived quality and reliability of our services, and result in liability claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential 18Table of Contentssubscribers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.If we do not develop new products and services or enhancements to our existing products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are characterized by: •rapid technological change; •evolving industry standards; •fluctuations in customer demand; •changes in customer requirements; and •frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance our current products and services and develop and introduce new products and services that our customers choose to buy. If we are unable to keep pace with technological developments and customer demands by introducing new products and services and enhancements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success could be hindered by: •delays in our introduction of new products and services; •delays in market acceptance of new products and services or new releases of our current products and services; and •our, or a competitor's, announcement of new product or service enhancements or technologies that could replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product and service offerings. In order for a number of our products to succeed in the future, we believe the demand for technology will need to shift from the types of products and services we and our competitors have sold in the past to a new generation of products we now offer. For example, we cannot guarantee that our Desktop Solutions, SaaS offerings and Datacenter and Cloud Solutions will achieve the broad market acceptance by our channel and strategic partners, customers and prospective customers necessary to generate significant revenue in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If we experience material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to our new products and services or new releases of our current products and services, those delays or shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our long sales cycle for Desktop Solutions sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. Generally, a substantial portion of our large and medium-sized customers implement our Desktop Solutions on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. We have a long sales cycle for these departmental or enterprise-wide sales because: •our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale;  •our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services; •our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and •before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. Our long sales cycle for these large-scale deployments makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. In addition, the long sales cycle for these large-scale deployment sales makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period, and large projects with significant IT components may fail to meet our customers' business requirements or be canceled before delivery, which likewise could adversely affect our revenue and operating results for any particular period.In addition, our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and are generally highest in our fourth fiscal quarter which we believe is due to the lapse of customers' fiscal year budgets and an increase in amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans due to compensation plan accelerators that are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. In addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. 19Table of ContentsOur success depends on our ability to attract and retain and further access large enterprise customers. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and access large enterprise customers by adding effective value-added distributors, or VADs, system integrators, or SIs and expanding our direct sales teams and consulting services. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and purchase of multiple years of subscription and maintenance up-front and generally have longer sales cycles, which could negatively impact our revenues. By allowing these customers to purchase multiple years of subscription or maintenance up-front and by granting special pricing, such as bundled pricing or discounts, to these large customers, we may have to defer recognition of some or all of the revenue from such sales. This deferral could reduce our revenues and operating profits for a given reporting period. Additionally, as we attempt to attract and penetrate large enterprise customers, we may need to invest in resources to coordinate among channel partners and internal sales, engineering and consulting resources and increase corporate branding and marketing activities, which could increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits.Changes to our licensing or subscription renewal programs, or bundling of our products, could negatively impact the timing of our recognition of revenue. We continually re-evaluate our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future products and services. We could implement new licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including promotional trade-up programs or offering specified enhancements to our current and future product and service lines. Such changes could result in deferring revenue recognition until the specified enhancement is delivered or at the end of the contract term as opposed to upon the initial shipment or licensing of our software product. We could implement different licensing models in certain circumstances, for which we would recognize licensing fees over a longer period, including offering additional products in a SaaS model. Changes to our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including the timing of the release of enhancements, upgrades, maintenance releases, the term of the contract, discounts, promotions and other factors, could impact the timing of the recognition of revenue for our products, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Further, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue that we receive from the sale of certain bundled products, if we have not established vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, for the undelivered elements in the arrangement in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. A delay in the recognition of revenue from sales of these bundled products may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. Similarly, companies that we acquire may operate with different cost and margin structures, which could further cause fluctuations in our operating results and adversely affect our operating margins. Moreover, if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected.Sales of our Subscription Advantage product constitute substantially all of our License Updates revenue and a large portion of our deferred revenue. We anticipate that sales of our Subscription Advantage product will continue to constitute a substantial portion of our License Updates revenue. Our ability to continue to generate both recognized and deferred revenue from our Subscription Advantage product will depend on our customers continuing to perceive value in automatic delivery of our software upgrades and enhancements. A decrease in demand for our Subscription Advantage product could occur as a result of a decrease in demand for our Desktop Solutions and our Datacenter and Cloud Solutions. If our customers do not continue to purchase our Subscription Advantage product, our License Updates revenue and deferred revenue would decrease significantly and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.As we expand our international footprint, we could become subject to additional risks that could harm our business.We conduct significant sales and customer support, development and engineering operations in countries outside of the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived approximately 43% of our revenues from sales outside the United States. Our continued growth and profitability could require us to further expand our international operations. To successfully maintain and expand international sales, we may need to establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. In addition, there is significant competition for entry into high growth markets where we may seek to expand, such as China. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which could cause fluctuations in the results of our international operations. These risks include: •compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements; •variability of foreign economic, political and labor conditions; 20Table of Contents•changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by U.S. export laws;  •longer accounts receivable payment cycles; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •difficulties in protecting intellectual property; •burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and •as we generate cash flow in non-U.S. jurisdictions, if required, we may experience difficulty transferring such funds to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot guarantee that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or results of operations. Our business could be harmed if we do not effectively manage our direct sales force alone and in combination with our distribution channels.We utilize a direct sales force, as well as a network of distribution channels, to sell our products and services. We may experience difficulty in hiring, retaining and motivating our direct sales force team, and sales representatives will require substantial amounts of training, including regular updates to cover new and upgraded products and services, particularly in connection with our acquisitions. Moreover, our recent hires and sales personnel added through our recent acquisition activity may not become as productive as we would like, as in most cases it takes a significant period of time before they achieve full productivity. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct sales force and channel partners to reach various potential customers for our products and services is a complex process.  If we are unsuccessful in balancing the growth and expansion of our various sales channels, growth in one area might harm our relationships or efforts in another channel. In addition, each sales channel has distinct risks and costs, and therefore, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the sales model for our products and services could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.We rely on indirect distribution channels and major distributors that we do not control.We rely significantly on independent distributors and resellers to market and distribute our products and appliances. For instance, one distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted for 17% of our net revenues in 2011. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with our subsidiaries, each of which cover different countries or regions. In addition, our reseller base is relatively concentrated. We maintain and periodically revise our sales incentive programs for our independent distributors and resellers, and such program revisions may adversely impact our results of operations. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential distributors and resellers to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. The loss of or reduction in sales to our distributors or resellers could materially reduce our revenues. Further, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances with certain distributors. The financial condition of our distributors could deteriorate and distributors could significantly delay or default on their payment obligations. Any significant delays, defaults or terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We plan to diversify our base of channel relationships by adding and training more channel members with abilities to reach larger enterprise customers and to sell our newer products. We also plan to create relationships with new channel partners, such as systems integrators and OEMs. In addition to this diversification of our base, we will need to maintain a healthy mix of channel members who service smaller customers. We may need to add and remove distribution members to maintain customer satisfaction and a steady adoption rate of our products, which could increase our operating expenses. Through our Citrix Partner Network and other programs, we are currently investing, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these channels, which could reduce our profits.For certain of our products we rely on third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations.We rely on a concentrated number of third-party suppliers, who provide hardware or hardware components for our products, and contract manufacturers. For example, the production, final test, warehousing and shipping for our Datacenter and Cloud Solutions products that contain a hardware component, are primarily performed by a third-party contract manufacturer. We do not typically have long-term supply agreements with our suppliers; and, in most cases, we purchase the products and components on an as-needed purchase order basis. While we have not, to date, experienced any material difficulties or delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products, our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction, natural disasters and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand. 21Table of ContentsAlthough we are seeking to diversity our relationships in the area, our reliance on these third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers subjects us to risks that could harm our business, especially if these third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers remain concentrated in number, including: •our suppliers, especially new suppliers, may make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy of our products or cause delays in shipment; •our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components and products to us in a timely manner; •our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements; and•our suppliers may experience significant delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products caused by natural disasters and other environmental factors.There may be delays associated with establishing additional or replacement suppliers, particularly for components that are available only from limited sources. Any interruption or delay in the supply of products or components, or our inability to obtain products or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our future operating results. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates, which could adversely affect our future revenue and overall operating results. In order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar, we use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies as we deem appropriate for a portion of our expenses, which are denominated in the local currency of our foreign subsidiaries. We generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks one year in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses for those currencies to which we have the greatest exposure. When the dollar is weak, foreign currency denominated expenses will be higher, and these higher expenses will be partially offset by the gains realized from our hedging contracts. If the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower. These lower expenses will in turn be partially offset by the losses incurred from our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the one year timeframe for which we hedge our risk and there is no guarantee that we will accurately forecast the expenses we are hedging. Changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect future revenue and operating results. In addition, as a result of entering into these contracts with counterparties who are unrelated to us, the risk of a counterparty default exists in fulfilling the hedge contract. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Historically, the scope of our operations, the number of our employees and the geographic area of our operations and our revenue have grown rapidly. In addition, we have acquired both domestic and international companies. This growth and the assimilation of acquired operations and their employees could continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources as our future acquisition activities accelerate our business expansion. We need to continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our products and services in a timely and cost-effective way and we may not meet our scalability expectations. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our expanding product lines, our marketing and sales organizations and our client support organization to the extent required for any increase in installations of our products.If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to fund our product development efforts and acquisitions or fulfill our future obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our operations and product development efforts, including the payment of cash consideration in acquisitions and the payment of our other obligations, depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to liquidate our investments, repatriate cash and investments held in our overseas subsidiaries, sell assets or raise equity or debt financings when needed or desirable. An inability to fund our operations or fulfill outstanding obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information, please refer to “Management's Discussion and Analysis of 22Table of ContentsFinancial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.”RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS AND STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPSAcquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we anticipate at the time of an acquisition.Our growth is dependent upon market growth, our ability to enhance existing products and services, and our ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis. In recent years, we have addressed and intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines and/or technologies. However, acquisitions, including those of high-technology companies, are inherently risky. We cannot provide any assurance that any of our acquisitions or future acquisitions will be successful in helping us reach our financial and strategic goals. The risks we commonly encounter in undertaking, managing and integrating acquisitions are: •difficulties and delays integrating the personnel, operations, technologies, products and systems of the acquired companies; •undetected errors or unauthorized use of a third-party's code in products of the acquired companies; •our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; •the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies;•difficulties managing or integrating an acquired company's technologies or lines of business;•potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-process research and development; •entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions and which are highly competitive; •the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; •an uncertain revenue and earnings stream from the acquired company, which could dilute our earnings;•potential difficulties integrating the acquired products and services into our sales channel;•assuming pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; •being subject to unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company's practices; and•intellectual property claims or disputes.Our failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquired companies due to these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, our 2012 operating plan assumes a certain level of financial performance from our acquisitions that were completed during 2011 and if these acquired companies or technologies do not perform as we expect, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. We expect that other companies in our industry will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for businesses and technologies that we would likely pursue, and our competitors may have greater resources than we do to complete these acquisitions.If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as product related intangible assets, from our acquisitions. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives. However, we do amortize certain product related technologies, trademarks, patents and other intangibles and we periodically evaluate them for impairment. We review goodwill for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value, at the reporting unit level, which for us, also represents our operating segments. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we determine that any of the goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquisitions is impaired, then we would be required to reduce the value of those assets or 23Table of Contentsto write them off completely by taking a charge to current earnings. If we are required to write down or write off all or a portion of those assets, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, impairment testing requires significant judgment, including the identification of reporting units based on our internal reporting structure that reflects the way we manage our business and operations and to which our goodwill and intangible assets would be assigned. In 2011, we early adopted authoritative guidance, which provides entities with an option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further quantitative impairment testing for goodwill is necessary where we estimate future revenue, consider market factors and estimate our future cash flows. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, estimating the applicable tax rates, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, projecting the future industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Although we believe the assumptions, judgments and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions, judgments and estimates, particularly when implementing new assessment methodology such as we did in 2011, could materially affect our results of operations. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including changes in our reporting structure, could materially affect our determinations of fair value.Our earnings could be adversely affected if the private companies we invest in for strategic reasons fail or lose value. We invest in private companies to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity or debt instruments and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. These companies range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. The companies in which we invest may fail or lose value because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or participate in liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail or lose value, we could be required to impair or write off all or part of our investment in that company. Additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize our proportionate share of the investee's income or loss, if loss greater than anticipated such income or loss may impact our earnings. Our inability to maintain or develop our strategic and technology relationships could adversely affect our business.Our business depends on strategic and technology relationships. We cannot assure you that those relationships will continue in the future. We rely on strategic or technology relationships with companies such as Microsoft, Intel, Cisco, Dell, Hewlett-Packard Company, Fujitsu Limited and others. We depend on the entities with which we have strategic or technology relationships to successfully test our products, to incorporate our technology into their products and to market and sell those products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current strategic and technology relationships or to develop additional strategic and technology relationships. In addition, one of our strategic partners may decide to team with another company or develop its own integrated solution that could compete with our products. If the companies with which we have strategic or technology relationships are unable to incorporate our technology into their products or to market or sell those products, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND BRAND RECOGNITIONOur efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our business.We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our source code and other intellectual property. The loss of any material trade secret, trademark, tradename, patent or copyright could have a material adverse effect on our business. Despite our precautions, it could be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy, disclose or reverse engineer certain portions of our products or to otherwise obtain and use our proprietary source code, in which case we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. If we cannot protect our proprietary source code against unauthorized copying, disclosure or use, unauthorized third parties could develop products similar to or better than ours. Any patents owned by us could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of protection we seek, if at all; and if issued, may not provide any meaningful protection or competitive advantage.In addition, our ability to protect our proprietary rights could be affected by differences in international law and the enforceability of licenses. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. For example, we derive a significant portion of our sales from licensing our products 24Table of Contentsunder “click-to-accept” license agreements that are not signed by licensees and electronic enterprise customer licensing arrangements that are delivered electronically, all of which could be unenforceable under the laws of many foreign jurisdictions in which we license our products.Our products and services, including products obtained through acquisitions, could infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which could result in material litigation costs.We are increasingly subject to patent infringement claims and may in the future be subject to claims alleging the unauthorized use of a third-party's code in our products. This may occur for a variety of reasons, including: •the expansion of our product lines, such as our Datacenter and Cloud Solutions and related technical services and expansion of our Online Services division's Web collaboration, remote access and support services, through product development and acquisitions; •an increase in patent infringement litigation commenced by non-practicing entities; •an increase in the number of competitors in our industry segments and the resulting increase in the number of related products and services and the overlap in the functionality of those products and services; •an increase in the number of competitors in our industry segments and the resulting increase in the number of related products and services and the overlap in the functionality of those products and services; •an increase in the risk that our competitors and third parties could use their own intellectual property rights to limit our freedom to operate and exploit our products, or to otherwise block us from taking full advantage of our markets; •our products and services may rely on the technology of others and, therefore, require us to obtain intellectual property licenses from third parties in order for us to commercialize our products or services and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms; and •the unauthorized use of third-party code in our product development process. Companies and inventors are more frequently seeking to patent software. As a result, we could receive more patent infringement claims. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity or merit, could result in costly litigation. Further, intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following: •pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement;•stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property;•obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or•redesign the challenged technology, which could be time consuming and costly, or not be accomplished. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business, results of operations or financial condition may suffer.Our use of “open source” software could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation.The products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, “Apache-style” licenses, “Berkeley Software Distribution,” “BSD-style” licenses, and other open source licenses. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use such that we have not triggered any of these conditions, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of these types of licenses. As a result, the potential impact of these terms on our business may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies, such as requirements that we offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software, and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations. If our defenses were not successful, we could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the distribution of our products that contained open source software, and required to comply with the terms of the applicable license, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in an unintended manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to publicly release the source code of our proprietary software. 25Table of ContentsIn addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or assurance of title or controls on the origin of the software. If open source software programmers, many of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance the open source technologies we utilize, we may be unable to develop Cloud Platform products, adequately enhance our existing cloud products or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price of cloud products.We rely to a significant degree on an informal community of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance the Xen hypervisor. A relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the Xen hypervisor, which is the heart of the XenServer virtualization product. Similarly, a small community of software developers are primarily responsible for the development and enhancement of the open source CloudStack platform. If these programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance our open source technologies, we would need to further develop and enhance these technologies with our own resources. Additionally, the CloudStack IaaS software platform is still an emerging technology, making it difficult for us to predict the level of its adoption in the market. In any event, our development expenses could be increased and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. Delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced products could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings.Our business depends on maintaining and protecting our strong collection of brands.The Citrix product and service brands that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the Citrix product and service brands is critical to expanding our base of customers and partners. We may be subject to reputational risks if others adopt similar marks in an effort to misappropriate and profit on our brand name and do not provide the same level of quality as is delivered by our products and services. In order to maintain, enhance and protect our brands, we may be required to make substantial investments that may not be successful. If we fail to maintain, enhance and protect the Citrix brands, if we incur excessive expenses in this effort or if customers or potential customers are confused by others' trademarks, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.If we lose access to third-party licenses, releases of our products could be delayed. We believe that we will continue to rely, in part, on third-party licenses to enhance and differentiate our products. Third-party licensing arrangements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: •undetected errors or unauthorized use of another person's code in the third party's software; •disagreement over the scope of the license and other key terms, such as royalties payable; •infringement actions brought by third-party licensees; •that third parties will create solutions that directly compete with our products; and•termination or expiration of the license. If we lose or are unable to maintain any of these third-party licenses or are required to modify software obtained under third-party licenses, it could delay the release of our products. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND EXTERNAL FACTORS Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes that result in a disruption of our operations could negatively impact our results of operations.Our worldwide operations are dependent on our network infrastructure, internal technology systems and website. Significant portions of our computer equipment, intellectual property resources and personnel, including critical resources dedicated to research and development and administrative support functions are presently located at our corporate headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, an area of the country that is particularly prone to hurricanes, and at our various locations in California, an area of the country that is particularly prone to earthquakes. We also have operations in various domestic and international locations that expose us to additional diverse risks. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophes, such as telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, fires or terrorist attacks, at any of the locations in which we or our key partners, suppliers and customers do business, could cause interruptions in our operations. For example, hurricanes have passed through southern Florida causing extensive damage to the region. In addition, even in the absence of direct damage to our operations, large disasters, terrorist attacks or other casualty events could have a 26Table of Contentssignificant impact on our partners', suppliers' and customers' businesses, which in turn could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Extensive or multiple disruptions in our operations, or our partners', suppliers' or customers' businesses, due to natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our investment portfolio has been subject to impairment charges due to the recent financial crisis in the capital markets and may be adversely impacted by volatility in the capital markets. Our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2011 primarily consisted of agency securities, corporate securities, government securities, commercial paper and municipal securities. As a result of adverse financial market conditions in recent years, investments in some financial instruments posed risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. Future adverse market conditions and volatility could create similar risks for investments in financial instruments. Although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the credit risk associated with investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting exposure to any one issuer depending on credit quality, we cannot give any assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value, become impaired, or suffer from illiquidity.Future market conditions and volatility could require us to record impairment charges for other-than-temporary declines in fair market value in our available-for-sale investments, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could lose some of the principal value of our investment portfolio. A total loss of an investment, dependent on an individual security's par value, or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition.Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or our exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our operating results and financial condition. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the geographic mix of our revenue, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance, however, that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In June 2010, we reached a settlement in principle with the IRS regarding previously disclosed income tax deficiencies asserted in a Revenue Agent's Report issued by the IRS. The final settlement requires the finalization of tax deficiency calculations with the IRS and a written agreement signed by the IRS. It is uncertain how long it will take to reach a final settlement with the IRS, and there can be no assurances that a final written agreement will be obtained or that this matter will otherwise be resolved in our favor. An adverse outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our stock price could be volatile, particularly during times of economic uncertainty and volatility in domestic and international stock markets, and you could lose the value of your investment.Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future. Your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include: •actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; •analyst reports or recommendations; •changes in interest rates; and •other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market in general, The NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the market for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These forces reached unprecedented levels in the second half of 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions and a material decline in economic conditions. In particular, the U.S. equity markets experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology 27Table of Contentscompanies, continuing through 2011. During 2011, our stock price has experienced volatility, with the closing price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market having ranged from $50.31 on August 19, 2011 to $87.62 on May 31, 2011. These broad market and industry factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.Changes or modifications in financial accounting standards may have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations or financial condition.From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, either alone or jointly with the International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, promulgates new accounting principles that could have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations or financial condition. For example, FASB is currently working together with the IASB to converge certain accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow GAAP and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS. These efforts may result in different accounting principles under GAAP, which may have a material impact on the way in which we report financial results in areas including, among others, revenue recognition, lease accounting, and financial statement presentation. We expect the SEC to make a determination in the future regarding the incorporation of IFRS into the financial reporting system for U.S. companies. A change in accounting principles from GAAP to IFRS would be costly to implement and may have a material impact on our financial statements and may retroactively adversely affect previously reported transactions.ITEM 1B