: Risk Factors" under the heading "Risk Factors Related to the Planned Separation," which describes some of the risks and uncertainties associated with the proposed separation.Products and ServicesOur products and services target customers of all sizes, from individuals and professional consumers, to large global enterprises. Two business units, Enterprise and Service Provider and Mobility Apps, administer the research and development, product marketing, and product management for our offerings. Our Enterprise and Service Provider business unit is comprised of Workspace Services and Delivery Networking products. Our Mobility Apps business unit is comprised of Communications Cloud and Workflow Cloud products. Broadly, as an organizing principle, we group our offerings in the following main categories within our two business units:Workspace ServicesWindows App DeliveryOur Windows App Delivery products are built to transform and reduce the cost of traditional Windows app and desktop management by virtualizing applications and desktops in the datacenter and delivering a cloud-like service to users anywhere on any device. We differentiate from basic virtualization solutions with robust security and flexibility to enable IT to deliver Windows apps and desktops for better business outcomes. 3•XenDesktop is a fully integrated desktop virtualization system that gives customers the flexibility to deliver desktops and applications as cloud services - enabling people to work better and simplifying desktop and app management. XenDesktop includes HDX technologies to give users a high-definition experience - even when using multimedia, real-time collaboration, USB devices, and 3D graphics content - while consuming less bandwidth than competing solutions. XenDesktop breaks down traditional cost barriers by reducing server and storage costs through the use of pooled desktops that can be personalized on-demand. XenDesktop is available in multiple editions designed for different requirements, from simple VDI-only deployments to sophisticated, enterprise-class desktop and application delivery services that can meet the needs of everything from basic call center environments to high-powered graphics workstations. In XenDesktop Enterprise and Platinum editions, customers also receive the industry-leading Citrix XenApp to manage and mobilize Windows applications.•XenApp is a widely deployed solution that allows Windows applications to be delivered as cloud services to Android and iOS mobile devices, Macs, PCs and thin clients. XenApp enables people to work better by running applications in the security of the data center and using HDX technologies to deliver a superior user experience to any device, anywhere. XenApp can optimize the application experience for smartphones, tablets and touchscreen laptops, providing intuitive touch capabilities for the latest generation of devices. Keeping applications under the centralized control of IT administrators enhances data security and reduces the costs of managing applications on every PC. XenApp runs on all current versions of Microsoft Windows Server and tightly integrates with the Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack, Microsoft App-V, and Microsoft System Center. Our joint solution lowers the cost of delivering and maintaining Windows applications for all users in the enterprise. The capabilities of XenApp are available standalone as well as seamlessly integrated within with XenDesktop Enterprise and Platinum Editions.Mobile App DeliveryOur Enterprise Mobility Management, or EMM products help organizations secure and manage mobile devices along with the apps and data that reside on the mobile device. XenMobile allows IT to easily meet mobile device security and compliance requirements for BYO and corporate liable devices while giving users the freedom to experience work and life their way. Unlike other mobile device management, or MDM and mobile application management, or MAM products, XenMobile provides the quickest path to productivity for mobile users with a low cost of ownership for IT:•XenMobile Enterprise is a comprehensive solution to manage mobile devices, apps, and data. Users have single-click access to all of their mobile, SaaS and Windows apps from a unified corporate app store, including seamlessly integrated email, browser, data sharing, IT support and collaboration apps. IT can deliver a rich user experience with WorxMail for secure mobile email, calendar and contact access, WorxWeb for secure browsing and ShareFile for enterprise data syncing. IT gains control over mobile devices with full configuration, security, provisioning and support capabilities. Flexible deployment options give IT the choice to manage XenMobile in the cloud or on-premise. In addition, XenMobile securely delivers Worx Mobile Apps, mobile apps built for businesses using the Worx App Software Development Kit, or SDK and found through the Worx App Gallery. With XenMobile, IT can meet their compliance and control needs while users get the freedom to experience work and life their way.Citrix Workspace SuiteWe offer customers the opportunity to acquire our mobility, desktop and app products through a single integrated product offering - the Citrix Workspace Suite. Citrix Workspace Suite is a complete, integrated business mobility solution for helping people and business become more productive with an on-demand mobile workspace. •Citrix Workspace Suite delivers the user experience for any app or desktop using a universal client - Citrix Receiver - available on all tablets, smartphones, PCs, Macs or thin clients, IT can securely deliver content over low bandwidth high latency WANs, highly variable 3G/4G mobile networks or a reliable corporate LAN to ensure native experience. Citrix Workspace Suite offers enterprise grade security to ensure data and applications are always secure and compliant. Workers can access and sync all of their data from any device and securely share it with colleagues and customers. Organizations can minimize loss of intellectual property and sensitive private information through data encryption, password authentication, secure lock and wipe on the device or through centralization of applications and desktops which keeps all content in the datacenter. Citrix Workspace Suite provides a single, flexible solution that can streamline application and desktop deployment and lifecycle management to reduce IT costs. By centrally managing and delivering on-demand standard images, IT can improve the success rate of application and desktop image updates and provide role-based management, configuration, security and support for corporate and employee-owned devices. Delivery NetworkingOur Delivery Networking products allow organizations to deliver cloud services to any device with high performance, security and reliability.  4•NetScaler is an all-in-one application delivery controller designed to make applications run up to five times faster by application accelerator methods such as hypertext transfer protocol, or HTTP compression and caching, ensuring application availability through the advanced L4-7 load balancer and content switching methods; increase application security with an integrated application firewall; ensure client security with integrated SSL VPN gateway; and substantially lower costs by offloading servers to enable server consolidation.Mobility AppsCommunications Cloud and Workflow Cloud products allow organizations to enable mobile workstyles and offer employees the ability to move seamlessly across a diverse mix of devices and collaborate and share information. Communications Cloud•GoToMeeting is an easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective product for online meetings, sales demonstrations and collaborative gatherings. GoToMeeting users can easily host, or participate in online meetings from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone, Windows 8 tablet, Windows Phone or Android device. GoToMeeting comes equipped with integrated conference dial-in numbers, Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP and HDFaces high-definition video conferencing. It features an advanced, secure communication architecture that uses industry-standard secure sockets layer, or SSL, encryption.•GoToWebinar is an easy-to-use, do-it-yourself webinar product, allowing organizations to increase market reach and effectively present online to geographically dispersed audiences. GoToWebinar users can easily host, attend or participate in a webinar session from a Mac, PC or mobile device without significant training or IT support; attendees can join from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone or Android device. GoToWebinar includes such features as full-service registration with real-time reports; customized branding; automated email templates; polling and survey capabilities; a webinar dashboard for monitoring attendance and participation; easy presenter controls for changing presenters; high-definition webcam sharing for up to 6 organizers and panelists and VoIP and toll-based phone options. •GoToTraining is an easy-to-use and secure online training product that enables individuals and enterprises to provide interactive training sessions to customers and employees in any location. GoToTraining users can easily create curriculums for their students from a Mac or PC without significant training or IT support; attendees can join from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone or Android device. GoToTraining includes such features as full-service registration with real-time reports; materials; automated email templates; polling and survey capabilities as well as testing; and high-definition webcam sharing for up to 6 participants and VoIP and toll-based phone options. •OpenVoice is a reservation-less audio conferencing service, providing robust web-based account tools that allows user provisioning and audio meeting controls for users to manage small and large audio conferences without operator assistance. OpenVoice Integrates seamlessly with all Communications Cloud products, adding a toll-free number to online sessions.•Grasshopper is a provider of cloud-based telephony solutions for small businesses that allows organizations to establish professional voice presence (e.g., interactive voice response (IVR), routing, voicemail) without costly hardware investments. Additionally, Grasshopper enables employees to use their personal devices to make and receive calls from their business line via a mobile app. Workflow Cloud•ShareFile is a secure, cloud-based file sharing and storage solution built for business. ShareFile enables business professionals to manage and share data securely and easily and solves the mobility and collaboration needs of users. It replaces insecure and inconsistent methods of transferring large and confidential files including email attachment, FTP and consumer cloud storage services. ShareFile protects client data throughout the storage and transfer process, using up to 256-bit encryption and SSL or Transport Layer Security, or TLS encryption protocols for transfer and 256-bit encryption for files at rest on ShareFile servers. Password protection and granular access to folders and files stored with ShareFile ensure that data remains in control of the company. With ShareFile Enterprise, organizations can manage their data on premises in customer managed StorageZones, choose Citrix managed secure cloud options or create a mix of both to meet the needs for data sovereignty, compliance, performance and costs. In addition, ShareFile supports e-signature and approval workflows.•GoToMyPC is an online service that enables mobile workstyles by providing secure, remote access to a PC or Mac from virtually any Internet-connected computer, as well as from supported iOS or Android mobile devices, such as the iPad, iPhone, Kindle Fire, and Samsung Galaxy. GoToMyPC sets up easily with a secure encrypted connection and enables individuals to remotely use any resources hosted on their desktop just as though they were sitting in front of it.  5•GoToAssist provides easy-to-use cloud-based IT support solutions to deliver maximum uptime for people and their computers, mobile devices and apps. GoToAssist's integrated toolset is built specifically for IT managers, consultants and managed service providers. License Updates and MaintenanceWe provide several ways for customers to receive upgrades, support and maintenance for products.•Subscription Advantage provides customers access to the latest product version updates when made available during their membership term. These updates include major changes to the product architecture and updates to the feature set of a product. Citrix software products eligible for participating in the Subscription Advantage program come with the first year of Subscription Advantage embedded into the cost of the product.•Technical Support Services are specifically designed to address the variety of challenges facing our customers’ IT environments. We offer several support-level options, global coverage and personalized relationship management. Post-sale technical support is offered through Citrix-operated support centers located in the United States, Ireland, Japan, Hong Kong, Australia, Singapore and India. In most cases, we provide technical advice to distributors, resellers, service providers and entities with which we have a technology relationship, who act as the first line of technical assistance for end-users.•Hardware Maintenance provides technical support from Citrix experts to diagnose and resolve issues encountered with appliances. It also offers the latest software upgrades and replacement of malfunctioning appliances to minimize organizational downtime. Additionally, dedicated account management is available as an add-on to the program for an even higher level of service.•Software Maintenance combines 24x7x365 unlimited worldwide support with product version upgrades when available. The first year of Software Maintenance is required with certain corresponding product purchases. Effective February 16, 2015, we introduced Software Maintenance across all Citrix software products and discontinued our existing Premier Support offering.Professional Services We provide a portfolio of professional services to our business partners and customers to manage the quality of implementation, operation and support of our solutions. These services are available for additional fees paid on an annual or transactional basis.•Citrix Consulting helps guide the successful implementation of Citrix technologies and solutions through the use of proven methodologies, tools and leading practices. Citrix Consulting focuses on strategic engagements with enterprise customers who have complex, mission-critical, or large-scale Citrix deployments. These engagements are typically fee-based engagements for the most challenging projects in scope and complexity, requiring consultants who are uniquely qualified with project methodology and Citrix product expertise. Citrix Consulting is also responsible for the development of best practice knowledge that is disseminated to businesses with which we have a business relationship and end-users through training and written documentation. Leveraging these best practices enables our integration resellers to provide more complex systems, reach new buyers within existing customer organizations and provide more sophisticated system proposals to prospective customers. Citrix Consulting has worked with Fortune Global 500 companies, technology providers, and government organizations to deliver solutions that achieve their unique technical and business objectives.•Product Training & Certification helps enable our customers and partners to be successful with Citrix and achieve their business objectives faster. Authorized Citrix training is available when and how it is needed. Traditional or virtual instructor-led training offerings feature Citrix Certified Instructors delivering training in a classroom or remote setting at one of our Citrix Authorized Learning Centers, or CALCs, worldwide. CALCs are staffed with instructors that have been certified by us and teach their students using Citrix-developed courseware. Self-Paced Online offerings, available to students 24 hours a day, seven days a week, provide technically robust course content without an instructor and include hands-on practice via virtual labs. Certifications validate key skills and are available for administrators, engineers, architects and sales professionals. Technology Our products are based on a full range of industry-standard open source technologies. In addition, certain of our products are also based on our proprietary technologies.•Citrix HDX Technologies is a family of innovations that optimize the end-to-end user experience in virtual desktop and virtual application environments. These technologies incorporate our ICA protocol, which consists of server- and client-side technology that allows graphical user interfaces to be transmitted securely over any network, and include  6optimizations for multimedia, unified communications, high-end graphics and mobile networks which work together to provide a high-definition user experience across a wide array of applications, devices and networks. •Citrix SmartAccess technologies provide granular, policy-based control over access and features that enable the best balance of security, compliance and end-user experience. These capabilities can dynamically enforce higher levels of security based on the device, network or user accessing the applications.•NetScaler Software Packet Engine, or the Packet Engine, forms the foundation of our NetScaler line of products. The Packet Engine allows high-performance networking and packet processing without the need for special purpose hardware.•NetScalernCore Technology is an architecture which enables execution of multiple Packet Engines in parallel. nCore technology allows the distribution of packet flows across multiple central processing unit cores to achieve efficient, high-performance parallel processing across multiple Packet Engines. The architecture incorporates innovations in flow distribution and state sharing and provides for efficient execution across Packet Engines.•XenMobile is our foundational technology that delivers a holistic mobile computing platform for enterprises. Its main components include MDM, MAM and a set of mobile applications including secure email, corporate app store, web browsing, data sharing, secure note taking and document editing on a host of mobile platforms including iOS, Android and Windows mobile.•Citrix Internet Overlay Platform is our foundational technology for GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, GoToTraining and GoToAssist. The platform implements one of the largest multicast overlay data networks in the world using the Internet. It provides proprietary screen-sharing technology that separately optimizes screen transmission for each endpoint device (such as a remote PC during an online meeting or remote access session).•Citrix PSTN/VoIP Bridge is core technology that allows the seamless integration of Public Switched Telephone Network/Voice over Internet Protocol, or PSTN/VoIP, in our products that use our audio conferencing.•HDFaces in GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining delivers high-definition video conferencing and one-to-many video streaming over the public Internet. It includes proprietary network transport protocols and transcoding software that optimize video quality for each endpoint device.Innovation is a core Citrix competency. We have many additional unique inventions that are important enablers of our continued leadership in delivery networking, workspace services and mobility apps. Customers We believe that the primary IT buyers involved in decision-making related to our solutions are the following:•Strategic IT Executives including chief information officers, chief technology officers, chief information security officers and vice presidents of infrastructure, who have responsibility for ensuring that IT services are enablers to business initiatives and are delivered with the best performance, availability, security and cost.•Desktop Operations Managers who are responsible for managing Windows Desktop environments including corporate help desks.•IT Infrastructure Managers who are responsible for managing and delivering Windows-based applications.•Directors of Messaging and Mobility, who are, respectively, responsible for Exchange and defining mobile strategies and solutions for securing and managing mobile devices including their content and applications. •Network Architects who are responsible for delivering Web-based applications who have primary responsibility for the WAN infrastructure for all applications. •Server Operations Managers who are responsible for specifying datacenter systems and managing daily operations.•Individuals and prosumers, who are responsible for choosing personal solutions and helping small businesses select simple-to-use computing solutions.•Small business owners who are responsible for choosing the systems needed to support their business goals, such as SaaS.•Line of business and functional executives that determine the need for our mobility apps offerings at certain enterprises.•Chief technology officer and engineering department (managers, architects, etc.) for telecommunications service providers are the primary buyers of our ByteMobile Smart Capacity solutions.•Chief information officer and engineering departments within service providers, using Citrix products to deliver desktops and applications as hosted cloud services.The IT buyers for our products include a wide variety of industries including those in financial services, technology, healthcare, education, government and telecom. 7We offer perpetual and term-based software licenses for our products, along with annual subscriptions for software updates, technical support and SaaS. Perpetual licenses allow our customers to use the version of software initially purchased into perpetuity, while term-based licenses are limited to a specified period of time. Software update subscriptions give customers the right to upgrade to new software versions if and when any updates are delivered during the subscription term. Perpetual license software products come primarily in electronic-based forms and, in selected markets, we offer pre-packaged shrink-wrap products to meet local customer needs. We also offer subscription licenses to service providers via a Service Provider License Agreement, which are invoiced on a monthly basis or based on reported license usage. Our Mobility Apps products are accessed over the Internet for usage during the subscription period. Our hardware appliances come pre-loaded with software for which customers can purchase perpetual licenses and annual support and maintenance.Technology Relationships We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future products and go-to-market. These relationships include cross-licensing, OEM, resell, joint reference architectures, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers. Microsoft For over 25 years, Citrix and Microsoft have maintained a very strategic partnership spanning product development, go-to-market initiatives and partner development, with the goal of helping customers to enable secure delivery of applications and data on any device, wherever they go. We continue to invest and make progress on moving from an on-premises centric approach to a hybrid and cloud model. This next-generation model encompasses not just the Microsoft platform but extends to enable customers to leverage other platforms to deliver the best experiences through Microsoft and Citrix technologies.GoogleTogether, Google and Citrix offer today’s enterprise a new approach to end user computing. Google and Citrix empower organizations to provide secure, scalable, app-centric, mobile workspace solutions that deliver an exceptional user experience. Our technology and marketing collaboration across app virtualization and mobility builds on a natural alignment to enable people to both work better and live better. The two companies continue working to optimize Citrix Receiver for Chrome to enable organizations to easily provision, centrally manage and deliver enterprise apps and data with high security over any network on any Chrome-based device. Our mobility technology and marketing collaboration ensures that XenMobile offers complete enterprise mobility management support for Android in the enterprise. Citrix is a founding partner for the Google Android for Work industry program.  Our partnership has grown quickly and will continue to expand as we introduce new joint solutions for Citrix products to leverage Google Cloud Platform.IntelCitrix and Intel have a long tradition of collaborating on various technologies, including client and server virtualization, remote 3D graphics visualization, cloud security, networking and mobility to enable enterprises to deliver a seamless, scalable and secure mobile workspace experience to anyone working from anywhere on any device. The two companies have recently built a go-to-market partnership to deliver cost effective and enterprise ready rich, virtual apps and desktops hosted on either a cloud or on-premise in the datacenter to any Intel architecture-based end point device including Windows, Mac, Chrome and Linux operating systems. In addition, both companies are increasing joint market programs to drive enterprise adoption of Application Delivery Controllers and SD-WAN on our Intel Xeon processor-based NetScaler SDX and MDX product families.Additional Relationships Our partners continue to expand their focus on the broad range of Citrix products. Some examples include Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Dell, IBM and Fujitsu which have multiple offerings in the market with our workspace services solutions and delivery networking products. We also have strongly established relationships with SAP, Samsung, Nutanix, and NVIDIA that complement the benefits provided by Citrix products. Amazon continues to market Citrix NetScaler, Citrix CloudBridge, and Citrix XenMobile in its Amazon Web Services (AWS) Marketplace, and we collaborate to help customers to run XenApp and XenDesktop on the AWS platform.Through our Citrix Ready program, more than 27,000 products have been verified to work with Citrix technologies. The program is trusted by customers, providing them choice and confidence when identifying Citrix verified partner products critical to their solution deployment. In addition, numerous partners proactively incorporate Citrix products and technologies such as Receiver, XenDesktop, XenApp, NetScaler, and HDX (ICA) technologies into their customer offerings. Our HDX and Receiver technologies are often included with or offered for thin clients, industry-standard servers and mobile devices, such as  8Apple's iPhone and iPad, Windows Mobile and Google Android devices. Licensees include Dell, Samsung, Fujitsu and Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, among others. Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and core technologies in our core markets and to further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing products. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers, both directly from and indirectly through our channel distributors. We believe that our software development teams and core technologies represent a significant competitive advantage for us. Included in each of the business unit software development teams are individuals focused on research activities that include prototyping ways to integrate emerging technologies and standards into our product offerings, such as emerging Web services technologies, management standards and Microsoft's newest technologies. Many groups within the software development teams have expertise in Extensible Markup Language, or XML, based software development, integration of acquired technology, multi-tier Web-based application development and deployment, SSL secure access, hypervisor technologies, cloud technologies, networking technologies, VoIP-based audio technology, Web-based video technology and building SaaS. We incurred research and development expenses of approximately $564.0 million in 2015, $553.8 million in 2014 and $516.3 million in 2013.Sales, Marketing and Services We market and license our products and services through multiple channels worldwide, including selling through resellers and direct over the Web. Our partner community comprises thousands of value-added resellers known as Citrix Solution Advisors, VADs, cloud service providers, SIs, Independent Software Vendors, or ISVs and OEMs. Distribution channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. Partners receive training and certification opportunities to support our portfolio of products, solutions and services. In addition, our Mobility Apps business unit provides our collaboration and data sharing offerings through direct corporate sales, our partner community, and direct through our web sites. We reward our partners that provide sales expertise, services delivery, customer education, technical implementation and support of the Citrix portfolio of products through our Citrix Advisor Rewards program. We continue to focus on increasing the productivity of our existing partners, and building capacity through targeted recruitment, introducing programs to increase partner mindshare, limit channel conflict and increase partner loyalty to us.As Citrix continues to lead with cloud services, we have been cultivating a global base of partners within the Citrix Service Provider program. These partners, consisting of managed service providers, IT hosting companies and Telcos, license Citrix desktop, application, networking and enterprise mobility management products on a monthly subscription basis. With these technologies partners then create various vertically differentiated offers of their own, consisting of cloud-hosted applications and cloud-hosted desktops, which they then resell both to SMBs and to enterprise IT. Besides supplying technology, Citrix is actively engaged in assisting these partners develop their hosted businesses by supplying business and marketing assistance. For all of our channels, we regularly take actions to improve the effectiveness of our partner programs and further strengthen our channel relationships through management of non-performing partners, recruitment of partners with expertise in selling into new markets and forming additional strategic global and national partnerships. Engagement with SIs and ISVs continues to be a substantial part of our strategic roadmap within large enterprise and government markets. Our integrator partnerships include organizations such as Accenture, Capgemini, Computer Sciences Corporation, Dimension Data, Hewlett Packard, Fujitsu, IBM Global Services, and Wipro, among others. Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu, Hewlett Packard, IBM and Wipro all deliver offerings powered by the Citrix Workspace Suite. The ISV program maintains a strong representation across targeted industry verticals including healthcare, financial services and telecommunications. Members in the ISV program include Allscripts, Cerner Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation, McKesson Corporation, and Siemens Medical Health Solutions, among several others.Our corporate marketing organization provides sales and industry event support, demand generation, web and social marketing, sales tools and collateral, advertising, direct mail, industry analyst relations and public relations coverage to our indirect channels to aid in market development and in attracting new customers. Our partner development organization actively supports our partners to improve their commitment and capabilities with Citrix solutions. Our customer sales organization consists of field-based sales engineers and corporate sales professionals who work directly with our largest customers, and coordinate integration services provided by our partners. Additional sales personnel, working in central locations and in the field, provide support including recruitment of prospective partners and technical training with respect to our products.  9In fiscal year 2015, there was no individual customer that accounted for over 10% of our total net revenues. In fiscal years 2014 and 2013, one distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted for 13% and 14%, respectively, of our total net revenues. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its subsidiaries, each of which covers different countries or regions. Each agreement is negotiated separately and is independent of any other contract (such as a master distribution agreement), one of which was individually responsible for over 10% of our total net revenues in fiscal years 2014 and 2013. We are not obligated to accept product returns from our distributors under any conditions, unless the product item is defective in manufacture. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 for information regarding our revenue recognition policy.International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for approximately 43.1% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, 45.2% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 and 45.4% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. For detailed information on our international revenues, please refer to Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015.Segment RevenueOur revenues are derived from our Enterprise and Service Provider products, which primarily include Workspace Services solutions, Delivery Networking products and related license updates and maintenance, support and professional services and from our Mobility Apps business unit's Communications Cloud and Workflow Cloud products. The Enterprise and Service Provider and the Mobility Apps business units constitute our two reportable segments. As part of our continued transformation, effective January 1, 2016, we reorganized a part of our business by creating a new Cloud Services business unit that will include our ShareFile product line. The ShareFile product line is currently included within our Workflow Cloud products under the Mobility Apps segment. We are currently evaluating our segment reporting for 2016 as a result of these changes. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015.OperationsFor our Delivery Networking products, which include NetScaler, we use independent contractors to provide a redundant source of manufacture and assembly capabilities. Independent contractors provide us with the flexibility needed to meet our product quality and delivery requirements. We have manufacturing relationships that we enter into in the ordinary course of business, primarily with Flextronics and IBM (primarily for ByteMobile Smart Capacity) under which we have subcontracted the majority of our hardware manufacturing activity, generally on a purchase order basis. These third-party contract manufacturers also provide final test, warehousing and shipping services. This subcontracting activity extends from prototypes to full production and includes activities such as material procurement, final assembly, test, control, shipment to our customers and repairs. Together with our contract manufacturers, we design, specify and monitor the tests that are required to meet internal and external quality standards. Our contract manufacturers manufacture our products based on forecasted demand for our products. Each of the contract manufacturers procures components necessary to assemble the products in our forecast and test the products according to our specifications. We are dual-sourced on our components, however, in some instances, those sources may be located in the same geographic area. Accordingly, if a natural disaster occurred in one of those areas, we may need to seek additional sources. Products are then shipped to our distributors, VARs or end-users. If the products go unsold for specified periods of time, we may incur carrying charges or obsolete material charges for products ordered to meet our forecast or customer orders. In 2015, we did not experience any material difficulties or significant delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products.We control all purchasing, inventory, scheduling, order processing and accounting functions related to our operations. For our software products, production, warehousing and shipping are performed by our independent contractors Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Ireland and Digital River. Master software, development of user manuals, packaging designs, initial product quality control and testing are primarily performed at our facilities. In some cases, independent contractors also duplicate master software, print documentation and package and assemble products to our specifications. While it is generally our practice to promptly ship product upon receipt of properly finalized purchase orders, we sometimes have orders that have not shipped upon receipt of a purchase order. Although the amount of such product license orders may vary, the amount, if any, of such orders at the end of a fiscal year is not material to our business. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance.We believe that our fourth quarter revenues and expenses are affected by a number of seasonal factors, including the lapse of many corporations' fiscal year budgets and an increase in amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans due to  10compensation plan accelerators that are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. Such factors historically have resulted in first quarter revenues in any year being lower than the immediately preceding fourth quarter. We expect this trend to continue through the first quarter of 2016. In addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues. Competition We sell our products in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. As the markets for our products and services continue to develop, additional companies, including those with significant market presence in the computer appliances, software and networking industries, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Technology Relationships” and Part I- entitled “Risk Factors” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Available InformationOur Internet address is http://www.citrix.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 9,500 employees. In November 2015, we announced a strategic restructuring program which included steps to reduce our headcount by approximately 700 full-time positions over its term, which extends into 2016. We believe our relations with employees are good. In certain countries outside the United States, our relations with employees are governed by labor regulations that provide for specific terms of employment between our company and our employees. 12ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain “forward-looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements concerning new products, product development and offerings of products and services market positioning, distribution and sales channels, our partners and other strategic or technology relationships, financial information and results of operations for future periods, product and price competition, strategy, operational and growth initiatives, seasonal factors, natural disasters, stock-based compensation, licensing and subscription renewal programs, international operations and expansion, investment transactions and valuations of investments and derivative instruments, reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, tax matters, acquisitions, stock repurchases, our debt, changes in accounting rules or guidance, changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions and credit markets, delays or reductions in technology purchases, liquidity, litigation matters, intellectual property matters, and the proposed spinoff of our GoTo family of products, constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition could vary materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYA significant portion of our revenues has historically come from our Windows App Delivery products, and decreases in sales for certain of these products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.A significant portion of our revenues has historically come from our Windows App Delivery products. We continue to anticipate that sales of our Windows App Delivery products and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future, and if the proposed spinoff of our GoTo family of products is completed, our business will be further dependent upon sales of these products. Recently, product license sales for certain of our Windows App Delivery products have declined year-over-year. Further declines and variability in sales of certain of our Windows App Delivery products could occur as a result of:•new competitive product releases and updates to existing products;•industry trend to focus on the secure delivery of applications, especially on mobile devices;•introduction of new or alternative technologies, products or service offerings by third parties;•termination or reduction of our product offerings and enhancements;•potential market saturation;•failure to enter new markets;•price and product competition resulting from rapid and frequent technological changes and customer needs;•general economic conditions; •complexities and cost in implementation; •failure to deliver satisfactory technical support;•dissatisfied customers; or•lack of commercial success of our technology relationships. In addition, we recently have experienced increased competition in the Windows App Delivery business from directly competing products, alternative products and products on new platforms. For example, in 2014 VMWare introduced Horizon Suite, which competes with our XenApp product offerings. Further, there continues to be an increase in the number of alternatives to Windows operating system powered desktops, in particular mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers. Users may increasingly turn to these devices to perform functions that would have been traditionally performed on desktops and laptops, which in turn may reduce the market for our Windows App Delivery products. If sales of our Windows App Delivery products decline as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, modifications to certain of our Windows App Delivery products may cause variability in our Windows App Delivery revenue, and make it difficult to predict our revenue growth and trends, as our customers adjust their purchasing decisions in response to such events. 13Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market.The demand for our products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. Moreover, the purchase of our products and services is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. U.S economic forecasts for the information technology, or IT, sector are uncertain and continue to highlight an industry in transition from legacy platforms to mobile, cloud, big data and social solutions. If our current and prospective customers cut costs, they may significantly reduce their information technology expenditures. Additionally, if our current and prospective customers shift their IT spending more rapidly towards newer technologies and solutions as mobile, cloud, big data and social platforms evolve, the demand for our products and services most aligned with legacy platforms (such as our desktop virtualization products) could decrease. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We face intense competition, which could result in customer loss, fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We sell our products and services in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. We compete based on our ability to offer to our customers the most current and desired product and services features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors’ products may be less costly, more heavily discounted or, especially with respect to our Mobility Apps products, free, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products. Additionally, there is a risk that our products may become outdated or that our market share may erode. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new products incorporating similar features to our products could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future product and service offerings. Existing or new products and services that provide alternatives to our products and services could materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. As the markets for our products and services, especially those products in early stages of development, continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software, cloud, networking, mobile, collaboration, data sharing and related industries, could enter, or increase their footprint in, the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter our markets and as our current competitors seek to increase market share. Further, we may see new and increased competition in different geographic regions. The generally low barriers to entry in certain of our businesses increase the potential for challenges from new industry competitors, whether small and medium sized businesses or larger, more established companies. Smaller companies new to our market may have more flexibility to develop on more agile platforms and have greater ability to adapt their strategies and cost structures, which may give them a competitive advantage with our current or prospective customers. We may also experience increased competition from new types of products as the options for workspace services, delivery networking and mobility apps increase. Further, as our industry evolves and if our company grows, companies with which we have strategic alliances may become competitors in other product areas, or our current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, all of which may further increase the competitive pressures we face.In order to be successful, we must attract, engage, retain and integrate key employees and have adequate succession plans in place, and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, engage, retain, and integrate qualified executives and other key employees throughout all areas of our business. Identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining highly-skilled managerial, technical, sales and services, finance and marketing personnel are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of products in our industry. The loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring may harm our business and results of operations. 14Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. We recently have experienced significant changes in our senior management team, including the appointment of Kirill Tatarinov as our new President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2016. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Returning to growth may require us to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and develop enhancements for our existing products and services; and if we are unable to successfully accomplish this, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are characterized by:•rapid technological change; •evolving industry standards; •fluctuations in customer demand; •changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs; and •frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. U.S. economic forecasts for the IT sector are uncertain and continue to highlight an industry in transition from legacy platforms to mobile, cloud, big data and social solutions. Our ability to return to growth depends on our ability to adapt to this fluid market and continually enhance our current products and services, integrate acquired products and services, and develop and introduce new products and services that our customers choose to buy. The emerging markets for our next generation of products and services have yet to be defined. The introduction of third-party solutions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing and future software solutions obsolete and unmarketable. If we are unable to keep pace with technological developments of third parties, expectations of the emerging markets and customer demands by introducing new products, services and enhancements (especially with respect to cloud-based solutions), our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success could be hindered by:•failure to identify new products and services; •delays in or lack of market acceptance of any new products and services or new releases of our current products and services; •our failure to support services in a timely manner;•our failure to identify and address significant product quality issues;•our inability to position and/or price our products and services to meet the market demand;•our failure to maintain relevance and brand loyalty in the evolving marketplace; and •the introduction of new products, services or technologies from third parties that could replace, make obsolete or shorten the life cycle of our existing product and service offerings. We believe the demand for technology has and will continue to shift from the types of products and services we and our competitors have sold in the past to a new generation of products and services. We cannot guarantee that our Workspace Services solutions, Delivery Networking products and Mobility Apps products will achieve the broad market acceptance by our channel and strategic partners, customers and prospective customers necessary to generate significant revenue in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If we experience material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to our new products and services or new releases of our current products and services, those delays or shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Adverse changes in general global economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results.As a globally operated company, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and market conditions. Continued economic uncertainty across all geographic locations may adversely affect sales of our products and services and may result in longer sales cycles, slower adoption of technologies and increased price competition. For example, if Russia, Brazil and China experience economic downturn, this could contribute to a decline in business and our customers’ spending. Additionally, in response to sustained economic uncertainty, many governmental organizations outside the U.S. that are current or prospective customers for our products and services continue to make significant spending cutbacks, which may continue to reduce the amount of government spending on IT and demand for our products and services from government organizations. Adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. 15Industry volatility may result in increased competition. The industry has been volatile and there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving and volatile industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had previously offered. Further, some companies are making plans or may be under pressure by stockholders to divest businesses and such divestitures may result in stronger competition. Additionally, as IT companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving workspace services, delivery networking and mobility apps markets, these companies continue to seek to deliver comprehensive IT solutions to end users and combine enterprise-level hardware and software solutions that may compete with our Workspace Services, Delivery Networking and Mobility Apps solutions. These consolidators or potential consolidators may have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources and brand loyalty than we do, and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and services. The companies resulting from these possible combinations may create more compelling product and service offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility or sales and marketing support for such offerings than we can. These heightened competitive pressures could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues or revenue growth rates, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services or cyberattacks on our networks could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Use of our products and services may involve the transmission and/or storage of data, including in certain instances customers' business and personally identifiable information. Thus, maintaining the security of products, computer networks and data storage resources is important as security breaches could result in product or service vulnerabilities and loss of and/or unauthorized access to confidential information. We devote significant resources to addressing security vulnerabilities in our products and services through our efforts to engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features in our products and services, deploy security updates to address security vulnerabilities and seek to respond to known security incidents in sufficient time to minimize any potential adverse impact. Despite our efforts, from time to time, we experience attacks and other cyber-threats, none of which to our knowledge have resulted in data exfiltration. Generally speaking, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions, product or service vulnerabilities or cause shutdowns. These perpetrators of cyberattacks also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware and other malicious software programs that directly or indirectly, for example, through a vendor or other third-party, attack our products, services or networks, or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, services and networks. Because techniques used by these perpetrators to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until long after being launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We can make no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, timely and adequately address, or mitigate the negative effects of cyberattacks or other security breaches.A breach of our security measures as a result of third-party action, malware, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise could result in (among other consequences):•harm to our reputation or brand, which could lead some customers to seek to cancel subscriptions, stop using certain of our products or services, reduce or delay future purchases of our products or services, or use competing products or services;•individual and/or class action lawsuits, which could result in financial judgments against us or the payment of settlement amounts, which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs;•state or federal enforcement action, which could result in fines and/or penalties or other sanctions and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs; and/or•in the event that we or one of our customers were the victim of a cyberattack or other security breach, additional costs associated with responding to such breach, such as investigative and remediation costs, and the costs of providing data owners or others with notice of the breach, legal fees, costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by such customers' credit card issuers, and costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise and additional monitoring of systems for further fraudulent activity.Any of these actions could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations. 16We may not achieve the expected benefits from our strategic and operational review and related initiatives. Building upon our previous initiatives to increase our strategic focus and operational efficiency, our Board formed an Operations Committee in July 2015 to work with our management team on a comprehensive operational review, including, among other things, a review of our operating margins, profitability and capital structure. In November 2015, we announced the initial results of our operational review and a plan to focus on our strategic solutions for secure and reliable delivery of applications and data, which included, among other things:•the proposed spinoff of our GoTo family of products into a separate, publicly-traded company;•the rationalization of our product portfolio, including plans to increase our emphasis and resources on our core enterprise products, the end of investment in certain other products and programs, and further evaluation of our products, technologies, offerings and programs, with a focus on enterprise readiness, ability to drive customer value, and growth and profitability prospects; and•the realignment of our resources to focus on simplification of our enterprise go-to-market motion and roles while improving coverage, reflect changes in our product focus, and balance resources with demand across our marketing, general and administration areas.We cannot assure you that such activities will result in the anticipated benefits to our business, results of operations and financial condition in a timely manner if at all. Further, we could experience unexpected delays, business disruptions resulting from supporting these initiates during and following completion of these activities, decreased productivity, and employee turnover as a result of such initiatives. The review by the Operations Committee remains on-going and may result in changes to or abandonment of certain initiatives, additional activities by our company focused on reducing costs, improving margins and increasing efficiency, and/or other organizational changes, including, but not limited to, the elimination of full-time and contractor positions. In addition, due to potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We recently implemented restructuring programs, which could have a material negative impact on our business. On January 28, 2015, we announced the implementation of a restructuring program, or the 2015 Restructuring Plan, designed to increase our strategic focus and operational efficiency. The actions related to this program were completed by the end of 2015. As a result of this program, we eliminated approximately 700 full-time positions and incurred costs of approximately $68.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2015, primarily related to employee severance arrangements and the consolidation of leased facilities. On November 17, 2015, we announced the implementation of an additional restructuring program, or the 2015 Other Restructuring Program, that will focus on the simplification of our enterprise go-to-market motion and roles while improving coverage, reflect changes in our product focus, and balance resources with demand across our marketing, general and administration areas. As a result of this subsequent program, we will eliminate approximately an additional 700 full-time positions, of which 350 were communicated in 2015. It is anticipated that the aggregate total pre-tax restructuring charges for this subsequent program, which primarily relate to employee severance arrangements, will be in the range of $55.0 million to $60.0 million. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve or sustain the targeted benefits under these restructuring programs, or that the benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate to meet our long-term growth expectations. Risks associated with these restructuring programs also include additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated results or otherwise harm our business. Regulation of the Web and telecommunications, privacy and data security may adversely affect sales of our products and result in increased compliance costs. As Web commerce and telecommunications continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies and industry groups becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely with respect to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal, financial and consumer information as regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, privacy and data security. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws and industry standards in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. The application of existing laws to cloud-based solutions is particularly uncertain and cloud-based solutions may be subject to further regulation, the impact of which cannot be fully understood at this time. Moreover, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data and privacy practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data and  17privacy practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Also, any new regulation, or interpretation of existing regulation, imposing greater fees or taxes on Web-based services, such as Mobility Apps services and audio services, or restricting information exchange over the Web, could result in a decline in the use and adversely affect sales of our products and our results of operations.Our Mobility Apps products may involve the storage and transmission of protected health information, or PHI, that is subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA. HIPAA, amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH ACT, has significantly increased the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under HIPAA. As a result of the HITECH ACT, business associates who have access to PHI provided by hospitals, healthcare providers, health insurance companies and other covered entities are now directly subject to HIPAA, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. To the extent we are required to comply with HIPAA's data security provisions, we may be liable for sanctions and penalties for any failure to so comply. Furthermore, we may be required to incur additional expenses in order to comply with the HITECH Act and any further amendments to and/or modifications of these requirements.Our products could contain errors that could delay the release of new products or that may not be detected until after our products are shipped.Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third-party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may experience outages, data loss and service disruptions of our Mobility Apps products and Delivery Networking products, which could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.The increasing user traffic and complexity of our Mobility Apps products, specifically those using Voice over Internet protocol and high-definition video conferencing features, and Delivery Networking products demands more computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of time and cost to adequately resource our Mobility Apps products and Delivery Networking products and to maintain and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle the increased traffic of our Mobility Apps products. Maintaining and expanding the capacity and geographic footprint of our infrastructure is expensive and complex. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary service outages and temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the perceived quality and reliability of our services, and result in liability claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential customers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Certain of the offerings from our Enterprise and Service Provider business unit have sales cycles which are long and/or unpredictable which could cause significant variability and unpredictability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. Generally, a substantial portion of our large and medium-sized customers implement our Workspace Services solutions on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. We have a long sales cycle for these departmental or enterprise-wide sales because:•our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale; •our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services; •our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and •before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. Our long sales cycle for these products makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. In addition, the long sales cycle for these products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any  18particular period, and large projects with significant IT components may fail to meet our customers’ business requirements or be canceled before delivery, which likewise could adversely affect our revenue and operating results for any particular period.Overall the timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Our quarterly sales have historically reflected an uneven pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of a quarter’s total sales occur in the last month, weeks and days of each quarter. In addition, our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and such fluctuations are generally most significant in our fourth fiscal quarter, which we believe is due to the impact on revenue from the availability (or lack thereof) in our customers’ fiscal year budgets and an increase in expenses resulting from amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans as performance milestones are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. In addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer.If we fail to convert our free users to paying customers or retain existing customers of our Mobility Apps products, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected.Initially, many users of our Mobility Apps products utilize such products free of charge through free trials or freemium versions of the products or lower priced/limited functionality versions of the products. We seek to convert these free trial users to paying customers and, where appropriate, we encourage customers utilizing a lower priced/limited functionality versions of our product to upgrade to higher priced/full functionality versions. If our rate of conversion or upgrade suffers for any reason, our revenue may decline. We sell our Mobility Apps products pursuant to subscription agreements. Such customers may not renew their subscription after their subscription period expires. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer cancellation, and our customers’ continuation rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our Mobility Apps products, the prices of such products, the prices of products offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers fail to renew or cancel their subscriptions for our Mobility Apps products, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted.Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain and further access large enterprise customers. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and access large enterprise customers by adding effective value-added distributors, or VADs, system integrators, or SIs, and other partners, as well as expanding our direct sales teams and consulting services. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and purchase of multiple years of subscription and maintenance up-front and generally have longer sales cycles. By allowing these customers to purchase multiple years of subscription or maintenance up-front and by granting special pricing, such as bundled pricing or discounts, to these large customers, we may have to defer recognition of some or all of the revenue from such sales. This deferral, compounded with the longer sales cycles, could reduce our revenues and operating profits for a given reporting period and make revenues difficult to predict. Changes to our licensing or subscription renewal programs, or bundling of our products, could negatively impact the timing of our recognition of revenue. We continually re-evaluate our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future products and services. We could implement new licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including promotional trade-up programs or offering specified enhancements to our current and future product and service lines. Such changes could result in deferring revenue recognition until the specified enhancement is delivered or at the end of the contract term as opposed to upon the initial shipment or licensing of our software product. We could implement different licensing models in certain circumstances, for which we would recognize licensing fees over a longer period, including offering additional products in a SaaS model. Changes to our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including the timing of the release of enhancements, upgrades, maintenance releases, the term of the contract, discounts, promotions and other factors, could impact the timing of the recognition of revenue for our products, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.Further, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue that we receive from the sale of certain bundled products if we have not established vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, for the undelivered elements in the arrangement in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. A delay in the recognition of revenue from sales of these bundled products may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. Similarly, companies that we acquire may operate with different cost and margin structures, which could further cause fluctuations in our operating results and adversely affect our operating margins. Moreover, if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. 19Sales and renewals of our license updates and maintenance products constitute a large portion of our deferred revenue. We anticipate that sales and renewals of our license updates and maintenance products will continue to constitute a substantial portion of our deferred revenue. Our ability to continue to generate both recognized and deferred revenue from our license updates and maintenance products will depend on our customers continuing to perceive value in automatic delivery of our software upgrades and enhancements. A decrease in demand for our license updates and maintenance products could occur as a result of a decrease in demand for our Workspace Services solutions and our Delivery Networking products. If our customers do not continue to purchase our license updates and maintenance products, our deferred revenue would decrease significantly and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.Our international presence subjects us to additional risks that could harm our business.We conduct significant sales and customer support, development and engineering operations in countries outside of the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we derived approximately 43.1% of our revenues from sales outside the United States. Potential growth and profitability could require us to further expand our international operations. To successfully maintain and expand international sales, we may need to establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. In addition, there is significant competition for entry into high growth markets where we may seek to expand, such as China, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which could adversely affect the results of our international operations. These risks include: •compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements; •variability of foreign economic, political and labor conditions; •changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by U.S. export laws; •regional data privacy laws that apply to the transmission of our customers’ data across international borders;•health or similar issues such as pandemic or epidemic;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;•longer accounts receivable payment cycles; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •difficulties in enforcing and protecting intellectual property rights; •burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and •as we generate cash flow in non-U.S. jurisdictions, if required, we may experience difficulty transferring such funds to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot guarantee that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or results of operations. We rely on indirect distribution channels and major distributors that we do not control.We rely significantly on independent distributors and resellers to market and distribute our products and services. Our distributors generally sell through resellers. Our distributor and reseller base is relatively concentrated. We maintain and periodically revise our sales incentive programs for our independent distributors and resellers, and such program revisions may adversely impact our results of operations. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential distributors and resellers to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. The loss of or reduction in sales to our distributors or resellers could materially reduce our revenues. Further, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances with certain distributors. The financial condition of our distributors could deteriorate and distributors could significantly delay or default on their payment obligations. Any significant delays, defaults or terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are in the process of diversifying our base of channel relationships by adding and training more channel partners with abilities to reach larger enterprise customers and additional mid-market customers and to sell our newer products and services. We are also in the process of building relationships with new types of channel partners, such as systems integrators and service providers. In addition to this diversification of our partner base, we will need to maintain a healthy mix of channel members who service smaller customers. We may need to add and remove distribution partners to maintain customer satisfaction and a steady adoption rate of our products, which could increase our operating expenses. Through our Citrix Partner Network and other programs, we are currently investing, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these channels, which could reduce our profits if such channels do not result in increased revenues. 20Our Delivery Networking business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays in the supply of hardware or hardware components from our third-party sources.We rely on a concentrated number of third-party suppliers, who provide hardware or hardware components for our Delivery Networking products, and contract manufacturers. If we are required to change suppliers, there could be a delay in the supply of our hardware or hardware components and our ability to meet the demands of our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of Delivery Networking sales and existing or potential customers and delayed revenue recognition and adversely affect our results of operations. While we have not, to date, experienced any material difficulties or delays in the manufacture and assembly of our Delivery Networking products, our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, or the need to implement costly or time-consuming protocols to comply with applicable regulations (including regulations related to conflict minerals), equipment malfunction, natural disasters and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand.We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our future operating results. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates, which could adversely affect our future revenue and overall operating results. In order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar, we use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies as we deem appropriate for a portion of our expenses, which are denominated in the local currency of our foreign subsidiaries. We generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks one year in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses for those currencies to which we have the greatest exposure. When the dollar is weak, foreign currency denominated expenses will be higher, and these higher expenses will be partially offset by the gains realized from our hedging contracts. If the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower. These lower expenses will in turn be partially offset by the losses incurred from our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the one year timeframe for which we hedge our risk and there is no guarantee that we will accurately forecast the expenses we are hedging. Further, a substantial portion of our overseas assets and liabilities are denominated in local currencies. To protect against fluctuations in earnings caused by changes in currency exchange rates when remeasuring our balance sheet, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge our exposure to this potential volatility. There is no assurance that our hedging strategies will be effective. In addition, as a result of entering into these contracts with counterparties who are unrelated to us, the risk of a counterparty default exists in fulfilling the hedge contract. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions.Potential new product and technology initiatives subject us to additional business, legal and competitive risks. While we intend to focus in the short-term on the rationalization of our product portfolio, it is likely that any future growth will depend on the success of new products and technology initiatives yet to be identified. These potential initiatives subject us to additional risks, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks include:•certain of our new product initiatives have a subscription model and we may not be able to accurately predict subscription renewal rates or their impact on results;•if customers do not adopt our new product or service offerings, we may be unable to recoup or realize a reasonable return on our investment in these new products and services; •sales of existing products and service offerings may be delayed while customers are investigating our new offerings;•competitive product and service offerings in emerging IT sectors may gain broad adoption before our products and services and, it may be difficult for us to displace such offerings regardless of the comparative technical merit, efficacy or cost of our products and services; •we may not be able to develop and implement effective go-to-market strategies and train our sales team and channel partners in order to effectively market offerings in product categories in which we have less experience than our competitors;•we may not be able to develop effective pricing strategies for our new products and services;•hardware, software and cloud hosting vendors may not be able to ensure interoperability with our products and offer compatible products and services to end users; •our new initiatives may be hosted by third parties whom we do not control but whose failure to prevent service disruptions, or other failures or breaches may require us to compensate, indemnify or otherwise be liable to customers or third parties for business interruptions or damages that may occur; and 21•Our operating margins in our new initiatives may be lower than those we have achieved in our more mature products and services markets, and our new initiatives may not generate sufficient revenue to recoup our investments in them.A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are held overseas. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash domestically in order to fund our U.S. operations, stock repurchases and strategic opportunities, and to service our debt, we may incur a significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the future. As of December 31, 2015, $1.61 billion of our cash, cash equivalents and investments were held in foreign countries. These amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the U.S. without triggering significant adverse tax consequences in the U.S. As a result, if the cash generated by our domestic operations is not sufficient to fund our domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities, and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to obtain new credit facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. Such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders’ ownership. Furthermore, lenders may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign sources of liquidity and incur a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products, respond to competitive pressures, repurchase outstanding stock or repay our outstanding indebtedness. In any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted. For further information, please refer to “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.”RISKS RELATED TO THE PROPOSED SPINOFF OF OUR GOTO FAMILY OF PRODUCTS The proposed spinoff of our GoTo family of products is subject to various risks and uncertainties, and there is no assurance that the spinoff will be completed on the terms or timeline contemplated, if at all.On November 17, 2015, we announced plans to spin off our GoTo family of products into a separate, publicly-traded company following a review of strategic alternatives for those products. As of the date of this report, we expect the spinoff to be completed during the second half of 2016. This process is time-consuming and involves significant costs and expenses and presents additional risks during the pendency of the separation and following its completion, including:•diversion of management’s and our employees’ attention from other business concerns; •disruption of our business; •loss of customers and other business opportunities;•challenges in attracting, retaining and motivating key employees; •continued expenses as a result of any ongoing obligations to provide transition services to the new spinoff company; and •difficulties associated with the separation of operations, services, products and personnel. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in working towards completion of the spinoff and following its completion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Moreover, unanticipated developments could delay or prevent the completion of the spinoff, or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms and conditions that are different or less favorable than expected, including disruptions in the financial markets or possible problems or delays in obtaining various approvals. In addition, completion of the proposed spinoff will require final approval of our Board of Directors. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the spinoff on the terms or on the timeline that we announced, if at all.We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the spinoff, and the spinoff could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to achieve some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits expected to result from the spinoff, or such benefits may be delayed. As independent, publicly-traded companies, Citrix and the new spinoff company will be smaller, less diversified companies with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially adversely affect their respective businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Separating the businesses may also eliminate or reduce certain synergies that existed prior to the spinoff, which could harm each business.  22There can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies following completion of the proposed spinoff will be equal to or greater than what the market value of Citrix common stock would have been had the proposed spinoff not occurred, and may be higher or lower than the market value of Citrix common stock immediately prior to the spinoff. The combined value of the common stock of the two companies could be lower than anticipated for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the inability of the new spinoff company to operate and compete effectively as an independent company. Further, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a smaller company with its business concentrated in the delivery of apps and data. These changes may not meet some shareholders’ investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their shares of our common stock. Excessive selling could cause the relative market price of our common stock to decrease following the consummation of the proposed spin-off.If the spinoff, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Citrix and its stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities.  We intend to obtain an opinion of outside counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion will be based on and rely on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of Citrix and the new spinoff company, including those relating to the past and future conduct of Citrix and the new spinoff company. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if Citrix or the new spinoff company breach any of their respective covenants in the separation documents, the opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings are incorrect or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or any court and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the conclusions reached in the opinion. The IRS will not provide a ruling in advance of the separation that the proposed transaction will be tax-free. If the distribution, together with certain related transactions, is ultimately determined to be taxable, Citrix and its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS AND DIVESTITURESAcquisitions and divestitures present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we anticipate.In recent years, we have addressed the development of new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines and/or technologies. However, acquisitions, including those of high-technology companies, are inherently risky. We cannot provide any assurance that any of our acquisitions or future acquisitions will be successful in helping us reach our financial and strategic goals. The risks we commonly encounter in undertaking, managing and integrating acquisitions are:•an uncertain revenue and earnings stream from the acquired company, which could dilute our earnings;•difficulties and delays integrating the personnel, operations, technologies, products and systems of the acquired companies; •undetected errors or unauthorized use of a third-party’s code in products of the acquired companies; •our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; •challenges with implementing adequate and appropriate controls, procedures and policies in the acquired business;•difficulties managing or integrating an acquired company’s technologies or lines of business;•potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-process research and development; •entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions and which are highly competitive; •the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; •potential difficulties integrating the acquired products and services into our sales channel;•assuming pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; •being subject to unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company’s practices; and•intellectual property claims or disputes. 23Our failure to successfully integrate acquired companies due to these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any future divestitures we make may also involve risks and uncertainties. Any such divestitures could result in disruption to other parts of our business, potential loss of employees or customers, exposure to unanticipated liabilities or result in ongoing obligations and liabilities to us following any such divestiture. For example, in connection with a divestiture, we may enter into transition services agreements or other strategic relationships, including long-term research and development arrangements, sales arrangements or agree to provide certain indemnities to the purchaser in any such transaction, which may result in additional expense. Further, if we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our operating results and financial conditions could be adversely affected. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as product related intangible assets, from our acquisitions. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives. However, we do amortize certain product related technologies, trademarks, patents and other intangibles and we periodically evaluate them for impairment. We review goodwill for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value, at the reporting unit level, which for us also represents our operating segments. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, estimating the applicable tax rates, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, projecting the future industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Although we believe the assumptions, judgments and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions, judgments and estimates, materially affect our results of operations. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including changes in our reporting structure, could materially affect our determinations of fair value. In addition, due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in 2015, in connection with prior acquisitions, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $123.0 million. Also, we may make divestitures of businesses in the future. If we determine that any of the intangible assets associated with our acquisitions is impaired or goodwill is impaired, then we would be required to reduce the value of those assets or to write them off completely by taking a charge to current earnings. If we are required to write down or write off all or a portion of those assets, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.Our inability to maintain or develop our strategic and technology relationships could adversely affect our business.We have several strategic and technology relationships with large and complex organizations, such as Microsoft and Cisco, and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services. We depend on the companies with which we have strategic relationships to successfully test our products, to incorporate our technology into their products and to market and sell those products. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic relationships or that they will continue in the future. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth. However, such relationships carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic relationship and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development, reduced sales or other operational difficulties and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND BRAND RECOGNITIONOur efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our business.We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our source code, innovations and other intellectual property, all of which offer only limited protection. The loss of any material trade secret, trademark, tradename, patent or copyright could have a material adverse effect on our business. Despite our precautions, it could be possible for unauthorized third parties to infringe our intellectual property rights or misappropriate, copy, disclose or reverse engineer our proprietary information, including certain portions of our products or to otherwise obtain and use our proprietary source code. In addition, our ability to monitor and control such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. If we cannot protect our  24intellectual property from infringement and our proprietary source code against unauthorized copying, disclosure or use, loss of our market share could result, including as a result of unauthorized third parties’ development of products and technologies similar to or better than ours.The scope of our patent protection may be affected by changes in legal precedent and patent office interpretation of these precedents. Further, any patents owned by us could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of protection we seek, if at all; and if issued, may not provide any meaningful protection or competitive advantage.Our ability to protect our proprietary rights could be affected by differences in international law and the enforceability of licenses. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. For example, we derive a significant portion of our sales from licensing our products under “click-to-accept” license agreements that are not signed by licensees and through electronic enterprise customer licensing arrangements that are delivered electronically, all of which could be unenforceable under the laws of many foreign jurisdictions in which we license our products. Moreover, with respect to the various confidentiality, license or other agreements we utilize with third parties related to their use of our products and technologies, there is no guarantee that such parties will abide by the terms of such agreements.Our products and services, including products obtained through acquisitions, could infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which could result in material litigation costs.We are increasingly subject to patent infringement claims and may in the future be subject to an increased number of claims, including claims alleging the unauthorized use of a third-party's code in our products. This may occur for a variety of reasons, including:•the expansion of our product lines, such as our Workspace Services and Delivery Networking products, and related technical services and expansion of our Mobility Apps products, through product development and acquisitions; •the volume of patent infringement litigation commenced by non-practicing entities; •an increase in the number of competitors in our industry segments and the resulting increase in the number of related products and services and the overlap in the functionality of those products and services; •an increase in the number of our competitors and third parties that use their own intellectual property rights to limit our freedom to operate and exploit our products, or to otherwise block us from taking full advantage of our markets; •our products and services may rely on the technology of others and, therefore, require us to obtain intellectual property licenses from third parties in order for us to commercialize our products or services and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms; and •the unauthorized or improperly licensed use of third-party code in our products.Further, responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity or merit, could result in costly litigation. Further, intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following:•pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement;•stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property;•obtain a license from the owner of the asserted intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or•redesign the challenged technology, which could be time consuming and costly, or not be accomplished. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be impacted.Our use of “open source” software could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation.The products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, “Apache-style” licenses, “Berkeley Software Distribution,” “BSD-style” licenses, and other open source licenses. Even though we attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, it is possible that not all instances of our open source code usage are properly reviewed. Further, although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for  25open source software that we use such that we have not triggered any of these conditions, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation or enforcement of many of the terms of these types of licenses. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations. If our defenses were not successful, we could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the distribution of our products that contained open source software, and required to comply with the terms of the applicable license, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in an unintended manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to publicly release the source code of our proprietary software, offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon incorporating or using the open source software, and/or license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license.In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide technology support, maintenance, warranties or assurance of title or controls on the origin of the software.Our business depends on maintaining and protecting the strength of our collection of brands.The Citrix product and service brands that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the Citrix product and service brands is critical to expanding our base of customers and partners. We may be subject to reputational risks and our brand loyalty may decline if others adopt the same or confusingly similar marks in an effort to misappropriate and profit on our brand name and do not provide the same level of quality as is delivered by our products and services. Additionally, we may be unable to use some of our brands in certain countries or unable to secure trademark rights in certain jurisdictions where we do business. In order to police, maintain, enhance and protect our brands, we may be required to make substantial investments that may not be successful. If we fail to police, maintain, enhance and protect the Citrix brands, if we incur excessive expenses in this effort or if customers or potential customers are confused by others’ trademarks, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.If we lose access to third-party licenses, releases of our products could be delayed.We believe that we will continue to rely, in part, on third-party licenses to enhance and differentiate our products. Third-party licensing arrangements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:•undetected errors or unauthorized use of another person’s code in the third party’s software; •disagreement over the scope of the license and other key terms, such as royalties payable and indemnification protection; •infringement actions brought by third-parties; •that third parties will create solutions that directly compete with our products; and•termination or expiration of the license. If we lose or are unable to maintain any of these third-party licenses or are required to modify software obtained under third-party licenses, it could delay the release of our products. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK, OUR DEBT AND EXTERNAL FACTORS Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes that result in a disruption of our operations could negatively impact our results of operations.Our worldwide operations are dependent on our network infrastructure, internal technology systems and website. Significant portions of our computer equipment, intellectual property resources and personnel, including critical resources dedicated to research and development and administrative support functions are presently located at our corporate headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, an area of the country that is particularly prone to hurricanes, and at our various locations in California, an area of the country that is particularly prone to earthquakes. We also have operations in various domestic and international locations that expose us to additional diverse risks. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophes, such as telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, fires or terrorist attacks, at any of the locations in which we or our key partners, suppliers and customers do business, could cause interruptions in our operations. For example, hurricanes have passed through southern Florida causing extensive damage to the region. In addition, even in the absence of direct damage to our operations, large disasters, terrorist attacks or other casualty events could have a significant impact on our partners’, suppliers’ and customers’ businesses, which in turn could result in a negative impact on our  26results of operations. Extensive or multiple disruptions in our operations, or our partners’, suppliers’ or customers’ businesses, due to natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have aggregate indebtedness of approximately $1.4 billion that we have incurred in connection with the issuance of our Convertible Notes and under our Credit Agreement, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our future indebtedness, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Notes 12 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 for information regarding our Convertible Notes and our Credit Facility.In addition, holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Further, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, we will be required to make cash payments for each $1,000 in principal amount of Convertible Notes converted of at least the lesser of $1,000 and the sum of the daily conversion values thereunder. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Convertible Notes surrendered therefor or Convertible Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Convertible Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Convertible Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Convertible Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Convertible Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under our Credit Agreements or agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Convertible Notes or make cash payments upon conversions of the Convertible Notes.Further, the Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain leverage and interest ratios and contains various affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, change our business or incur subsidiary indebtedness. If we fail to comply with these covenants or any other provision of the Credit Agreement, we may be in default under the Credit Agreement, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments of such default. Upon an event of default under our Credit Agreement, if not otherwise amended or waived, the affected lenders could accelerate the repayment of any outstanding principal and accrued interest on their outstanding loans and terminate their commitments to lend additional funds, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position and, further, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness.In addition, our indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could:•make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;•place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and•limit our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund acquisitions, for working capital and for other general corporate purposes. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase. 27The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, or ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders’ equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results as reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the instrument’s coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results.In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.Our portfolios of liquid securities and strategic investments may lose value or become impaired. Our investment portfolio consists of agency securities, corporate securities, money market funds, municipal (including auction rate) securities, government securities and commercial paper. Although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the credit risk associated with investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting exposure to any one issuer depending on credit quality, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value, become impaired, or suffer from illiquidity.Changes in our tax rates or our exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our operating results and financial condition.Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the geographic mix of our revenue, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance, however, that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our stock price could be volatile, particularly during times of economic uncertainty and volatility in domestic and international stock markets, and you could lose the value of your investment.Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future. Your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include:•actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; analyst reports or recommendations; •rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our or our competitors’ operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements; and •other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control.  28The stock market in general, The NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the market for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These fluctuations may continue in the future and this could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of operating performance.Changes or modifications in financial accounting standards may have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations or financial condition.A change or modification in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, including the potential impact of the adoption and implementation of the accounting standard update on revenue recognition issued in May 2014 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could materially adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 29ITEM 1B