Item 1A.         Risk
Factors

Our business is subject to various industry,
economic, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties. These risks include
those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not
presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial.

Risks Related to the Proposed Merger

Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact
the stock prices and our future business and financial results.

If
the merger is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected
and we will be subject to several risks, including the following:

·                  having to pay
certain costs relating to the merger;

·                  the attention of
our management will have been diverted to the merger instead of on our
operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial
to us;

·                  customer
perception may be negatively impacted which could affect Pharmacare’s ability
to compete for, or to win, new and renewal business in the marketplace; and

·                  being required,
under certain circumstances under the merger agreement, to pay a termination
fee of $675 million to Caremark.


 7 






Even if the merger is completed, the pendency of the
merger could impact or cause disruptions in CVS’ and the combined company’s
businesses, which could have an adverse effect on results of operations and
financial condition.

Specifically:

·                  current and
prospective clients of PharmaCare and Caremark may experience uncertainty
associated with the merger, including with respect to current or future
business relationships with PharmaCare, Caremark or the combined company and
may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider
entering into business relationships with parties other than PharmaCare,
Caremark or the combined company, either before or after completion of the
merger;

·                  Caremark and CVS
employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined
company, which might adversely affect CVS’ and the combined company’s ability
to retain and hire key managers and other employees;

·                  the attention of
management of each of Caremark and CVS may be directed toward the completion of
the merger and transaction-related considerations and may be diverted from the
day-to-day business operations of their respective companies; and

·                  pharmaceutical
manufacturers, retail pharmacies, pharmacy benefit management companies or
other vendors or suppliers may seek to modify or terminate their business
relationships with CVS, Caremark or the combined company.

Approximately one third
of a PBM’s customer base typically is subject to renewal each year, and
therefore Caremark and CVS may face additional challenges in competing for new
business and retaining or renewing business. Caremark’s largest client, the
Federal Employees Health Benefits Plan, is currently subject to renewal for
services beginning January 1, 2008. There can be no assurance that Caremark
will be able to secure renewal of this business; however, such renewal is not a
condition to the completion of the merger. These disruptions and business
challenges could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the merger or
termination of the merger agreement and could have an adverse effect on the
businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of CVS if
the merger is not completed or of the combined company if the merger is
completed.

We may be unable to successfully integrate Caremark’s
operations or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits of the
merger. As a result, the value of our common stock may be adversely affected.

We entered into a merger
agreement because we believe that the merger will be beneficial to us and our
stockholders. Currently, Caremark operates as an independent public company.
Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend in part upon
whether we can integrate Caremark’s business in an efficient and effective
manner. We may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or
successfully. The necessity of coordinating geographically separated
organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in
business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may
increase the difficulties of integration. We and Caremark operate numerous
systems, including those involving management information, purchasing,
accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll and regulatory
compliance. The integration of certain operations following the merger will
require the dedication of significant management resources, which may
temporarily distract management’s attention from our day-to-day business.
Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also
disrupt our business. Any inability of management to integrate successfully the
operations of Caremark could have a material adverse effect on our business and
results of operations. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated operating
and cost synergies or long-term strategic benefits of the merger. An inability
to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the
merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could
have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which may
affect the value of the shares of our common stock after the completion of the
merger.


 8 






Our success after the
merger will depend in part upon our ability to retain key employees.
Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. In addition, key
employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty or
difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key
employees.

Certain legal
restrictions have limited our ability to complete and finalize an integration
plan relating to the merger of the two companies. The actual integration may
result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of
the integration plan may not be realized.

Following the merger our common stock may be affected
by factors different from those affecting the price of our common stock
historically.

As our business and the
business of Caremark are different, our results of operations as well as the
price of our common stock following the merger may be affected by factors
different than those factors affecting us and Caremark as independent
stand-alone entities. Following the merger we will face additional risks and
uncertainties not otherwise facing each independent company prior to the
merger. For a discussion of certain factors to consider in connection with the
combined company, see the below section titled “—Risks Related to CVS, Caremark
and the Combined Company.”

The merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution
to our earnings per share, which may harm the market price of our common stock.

We currently anticipate
that the merger will be accretive to earnings per share during the first full
calendar year after the merger. However, due to legal restrictions, we have
been limited in our ability to complete and finalize an integration plan
relating to the merger of the two companies. Accordingly, this expectation is
based on preliminary estimates which may materially change after the completion
of the merger. We could also encounter additional transaction and
integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all
of the benefits anticipated in the merger. All of these factors could cause
dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive
effect of the merger and cause a decrease in the price of our common stock.

Charges to earnings resulting from the application of
the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our
common stock following the merger.

In accordance with U.S.
GAAP, we will be considered the acquiror for accounting purposes. We will
account for the merger using the purchase method of accounting, which will
result in charges to our earnings that could adversely affect the market value
of our common stock following the completion of the merger. Under the purchase
method of accounting, we will allocate the total purchase price to the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed from Caremark based on their fair values as of
the date of the completion of the merger, and record any excess of the purchase
price over those fair values as goodwill. For certain tangible and intangible
assets, reevaluating their fair values as of the completion date of the merger
will result in our incurring additional depreciation and/or amortization
expense that exceed the combined amounts recorded by CVS and Caremark prior to
the merger. This increased expense will be recorded by us over the useful lives
of the underlying assets. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or
intangible assets were to become impaired, we may be required to incur charges
relating to the impairment of those assets.

We will incur significant
transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the merger.

We expect to incur a
number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the
two companies. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses resulting from
the merger will be comprised of transaction costs related to the merger,
facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment–related costs. We
will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration
plans. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the
two companies’ businesses. Due to legal restrictions, we have been unable
to  finalize an integration plan (which
includes plans related to delivery of anticipated synergies) relating to the
merger of the two companies. Although we expect that the elimination of
duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to
the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental
transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be
achieved in the near term, or at all.


 9 






Risks Related to CVS, Caremark and the Combined
Company

The industries in which we operate are extremely
competitive and competition could adversely affect our business and results of operations
following the merger.

We and Caremark currently
operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete, and after the
completion of the merger, we will continue to compete, with other drugstore
chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs and Internet
companies. Following the merger we will continue to face competition from other
mail order pharmacies and PBMs.

The pharmacy benefits management industry in which Caremark
and, to a lesser extent, we through PharmaCare, operate is extremely
competitive. Competitors in the pharmacy benefits management industry include
large national pharmacy benefit management companies, such as Medco Health
Solutions, Inc. and Express Scripts, as well as many local or regional PBMs. In
addition, there are several large health insurers and managed care plans (e.g.,
Wellpoint, Aetna, CIGNA, UnitedHealthcare) and retail pharmacies (e.g.,
Walgreens, Longs and Rite Aid) which have their own PBM capabilities as well as
several other national and regional companies that provide some or all of the
same services. Some of these competitors may offer services and pricing terms
that following the merger we, even if the anticipated benefits of the merger
are realized in full, may not be able to offer. In addition, competition may
also come from other sources in the future. As a result, competition could have
an adverse effect on our business and results of operations following the
merger.

Efforts to reduce reimbursement levels and alter
healthcare financing practices could adversely affect CVS’ and the combined
company’s businesses.

The continued efforts of
health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, other pharmacy
benefit management companies, government entities, and other third party payors
to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates may impact
the profitability of CVS and the combined company. In particular, increased
utilization of generic pharmaceuticals, (which normally yield a higher gross
profit rate than equivalent brand named drugs) has resulted in pressure to
decrease reimbursement payments to pharmacies for generic drugs, causing a
reduction in the generic profit rate. In addition, during the past several
years, the U.S. healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in
governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Efforts to
control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at
the federal and state government levels. Changing political, economic and
regulatory influences may affect healthcare financing and reimbursement
practices. If the current healthcare financing and reimbursement system changes
significantly, the combined company’s business could be materially adversely
affected.

On February 8, 2006, the
President signed into law the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the “DRA”). The
DRA seeks to reduce federal spending by altering the Medicaid reimbursement
formula for multi-source (i.e., generic) drugs. According to the Congressional
Budget Office, retail pharmacies are expected to negotiate with individual
states for higher dispensing fees to mitigate the adverse effect of these
changes. These changes are expected to begin to take effect in late spring 2007
and to result in reduced Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies.
The extent of these reductions and the impact on the combined company cannot be
determined at this time.

In addition, Congress
periodically considers proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system. These proposals
may increase government involvement in healthcare and regulation of PBM or
pharmacy services, or otherwise change the way the combined company or its
clients do business. Health plan sponsors may react to these proposals and the
uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying purchases of cost control
mechanisms and related services that the combined company would provide. CVS
and Caremark cannot predict what effect, if any, these proposals may have on
the combined company’s business. Other legislative or market-driven changes in
the healthcare system that CVS and Caremark cannot anticipate could also
materially adversely affect the combined company’s consolidated results of
operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from
operations.


 10










Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely
affect the financial performance of CVS and the Combined Company.

Contracts in the
prescription drug industry, including Caremark’s and PharmaCare’s contracts
with retail pharmacy networks as well as their contracts with clients for PBM
and Specialty services, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish
pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include average wholesale
price (“AWP”), average selling price (“ASP”), and wholesale acquisition cost (“WAC”).
Most of Caremark’s and PharmaCare’s PBM client contracts utilize the AWP
standard. Further, most of the contracts governing the participation of CVS
stores in retail pharmacy networks also utilize the AWP standard.

Recent events have raised
uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and others in the
prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously
been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for
establishing prices within the industry.

Specifically, in the
proposed settlement in the case of New England Carpenters
Health Benefits Fund, et al. v. First DataBank, et al., a civil
class action case brought against First DataBank (“FDB”), one of several
companies that report data on prescription drug prices, and McKesson
Corporation, FDB has agreed to reduce the reported AWP of certain drugs by four
percent at a future time as contemplated by the settlement. At this time, the
proposed settlement has not received final court approval. The court could
approve the proposed settlement in part, in its entirety, or not at all. We
cannot predict the outcome of this case, or, if the settlement is approved, the
precise timing of any of the proposed AWP changes or the effect of such
changes, if any, on our financial performance.

Over 90% of Caremark’s
client relationships and most of its relationships with other affected parties
contain terms that following the merger we believe will enable us to mitigate
any adverse effect of this proposed reduction in FDB’s reported AWP. Two other
publicly traded large national PBMs have also stated that their contractual
relationships contain similar terms. However, because in some cases payors may
seek to negotiate with PBMs in an effort to reduce prescription drug costs as a
result of a reduction in FDB’s reported AWP, the ultimate effect of this
development on the business of the combined company cannot be precisely
predicted.

Whatever the
outcome of the FDB case, it is possible that payors, pharmacy providers and
PBMs will begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for
contracting for prescription drugs and pharmacy benefit management services in
the future.

Uncertainty regarding the
impact of Medicare Part D may adversely impact the business and financial
results of CVS and the Combined Company.

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, created a new, voluntary prescription
drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries entitled to Medicare benefits under
Part A or enrolled in Medicare Part B. The Medicare Drug Benefit became
effective on January 1, 2006. Since its inception the program has resulted in increased
utilization and decreased pharmacy gross margin rates as higher margin business
(such as cash and state Medicaid customers) migrated to the new Medicare Part D
coverage. The full impact on CVS’ or the combined company’s sales and gross
margin rates cannot yet be determined and could have different effects on
different segments of business.

Caremark and PharmaCare participate in the
administration of the Medicare Drug Benefit through the provision of PBM
services to their health plan clients and other clients that have qualified as
a Medicare Part D prescription drug plan. Caremark also participates (1)
through the offering of Medicare Part D pharmacy benefits by its subsidiary,
SilverScript Insurance Company, which has been approved by the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, as a prescription drug plan sponsor
under Medicare Part D in all regions of the country, and (2) by assisting
employer, union and other health plan clients that qualify for the retiree drug
subsidy available under Medicare Part D by collecting and submitting
eligibility and/or drug cost data to CMS for them in order to obtain the
subsidy. In addition, PharmaCare, through a joint venture with Universal
American Insurance Corp, also participates in the offering of Medicare Part D
pharmacy benefits by affiliated entities of Universal American. Clients could
decide to discontinue providing prescription drug benefits to their
Medicare-eligible members. If this occurs, the adverse effects of the Medicare
Drug Benefit may outweigh any opportunities for new business generated by the
new benefit. We are not yet able to assess the impact that Medicare Part D will
have on clients’ decisions to continue to offer a prescription drug benefit to
their Medicare-eligible members. In addition, if the cost and complexity of the
Medicare Drug Benefit exceed management’s


 11 






expectations or prevent effective program
implementation or administration; if the government alters or reduces funding
of Medicare programs because of the higher-than-anticipated cost to taxpayers
of the MMA or for other reasons; if we fail to design and maintain programs
that are attractive to Medicare participants; or if we are not successful in
retaining enrollees, or winning contract renewals or new contracts under the
MMA’s competitive bidding process, our Medicare business and the ability to
expand our Medicare operations could be materially and adversely affected, and
our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Finally, the
MMA mandated risk corridors (in which the federal government shares in the drug
cost risk borne by Part D plans) are scheduled to change in 2008. Both the risk
corridor thresholds and the level of risk-sharing will change with the result
that Medicare Drug Benefit sponsors will assume an increased level of drug cost
risk starting in 2008. Therefore, to the extent that SilverScript Insurance
Company’s actual drug costs are higher or lower than those estimated by it in
its bid in 2008 onwards, the federal government will share a smaller portion of
the losses or gains respectively than it otherwise would have prior to 2008.

Existing and new government legislative and regulatory
action could adversely affect the business and financial results of CVS and the
Combined Company.

We are subject to changes
in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and taxation
requirements and interpretations. As a participant in the healthcare and PBM
industries, our operations are subject to complex and evolving federal and state
laws and regulations and enforcement by federal and state governmental
agencies.

The pharmacy benefit
services business and retail drugstore business are subject to numerous
federal, state and local laws and regulations. Changes in these regulations may
require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to
implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations
could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties that could
adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including, but not
limited to: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required
government certification; approvals; loss of authorizations to participate in
or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and
Medicaid programs; loss of licensure; or significant fines or monetary
penalties, and could adversely affect the continued operation of our business.
The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to:
federal, state and local registration and regulation of pharmacies, pharmacy
benefit managers and healthcare insurance companies; applicable Medicare and
Medicaid regulations; accounting standards; tax laws and regulations; laws and
regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety
matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal
of, hazardous substances; regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the
Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities,
governing the sale, advertisement and promotion of products that we sell;
anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; and federal and state laws governing the
practice of the profession of pharmacy. In that regard, the business and
results of operations of CVS and the combined company could be affected by one
or more of the following:

·                  federal and
state laws and regulations governing the purchase, distribution, management,
dispensing and reimbursement of prescription drugs and related services,
whether at retail or mail, and applicable licensing requirements;

·                  the effect of
the expiration of patents covering brand name drugs and the introduction of
generic products;

·                  the frequency
and rate of approvals by the FDA of new brand named and generic drugs, or of
over-the-counter status for brand name drugs;

·                  FDA regulation
affecting the retail or PBM industry;

·                  rules and
regulations issued pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”); and other federal and state laws
affecting the use, disclosure and transmission of health information, such as
state security breach laws and state laws limiting the use and disclosure of
prescriber information;

·                  administration
of the Medicare Drug Benefit, including legislative changes and/or CMS
rulemaking and interpretation;

·                  government
regulation of the development, administration, review and updating of
formularies and drug lists;

·                  state laws and
regulations establishing or changing prompt payment requirements for payments
to retail pharmacies;

·                  impact of
network access (any willing provider) legislation on ability to manage pharmacy
networks;

·                  managed care
reform and plan design legislation;


 12 






·                  insurance
licensing and other insurance regulatory requirements applicable to offering a
prescription drug plan in connection with the Medicare Drug Benefit; and

·                  direct regulation
of pharmacies or PBMs by regulatory and quasi-regulatory bodies.

Caremark faces litigation
risks and is the subject of various legal proceedings.

In addition to our own
litigation, Caremark is currently subject to various litigation matters. If
following the merger any of these or new proceedings are determined adversely,
it could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business and
results of operations.

In November 2006, the
Iron Workers of Western Pennsylvania Pension Plan filed a purported class
action lawsuit purportedly on behalf of Caremark stockholders in the United
States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee against Caremark and
its directors. The complaint alleged, among other things, that the directors
breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the proposed merger with CVS.
The plaintiff sought, among other things, preliminary and permanent injunctive
relief to prevent the proposed merger, to direct the defendants to obtain a
transaction that is in the best interests of Caremark stockholders, and to
impose a constructive trust upon any benefits improperly received by the
defendants. In December 2006, the plaintiff moved for a temporary restraining
order enjoining certain provisions of the merger agreement, expedited
discovery, and an order to show cause why the proposed merger should not be
preliminary enjoined. On December 22, 2006, the court denied the plaintiff’s
motion for a temporary restraining order. In January 2007, the defendants moved
to stay the lawsuit. On January 5, 2007, the court stayed the lawsuit and
denied the plaintiff’s motion to expedite discovery and for an order to show
cause.

The Sheetmetal Workers
Local 28 Pension Fund also filed a purported class action lawsuit in the
Chancery Court of Davidson County, Tennessee against Caremark and its
directors. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the directors
breached their fiduciary duties in approving the proposed merger. The plaintiff
seeks, among other things, a declaration that the directors breached their
fiduciary duties and injunctive relief preventing the proposed merger. In
December 2006, the plaintiff sought to transfer the case to the Circuit Court
for Davidson County, Tennessee and to consolidate it with the pending In Re:
Caremark Rx, Inc. Stock Option Litigation, as described below. The defendants
opposed the proposed transfer and consolidation. On January 12, 2007, the
Circuit Court denied the proposed transfer and consolidation.

In December 2006,
Laurence M. Silverstein filed a purported class action lawsuit purportedly on
behalf of Caremark stockholders relating to the proposed merger between
Caremark and CVS in the United States District Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee. The suit is brought against Caremark, its directors, CVS, and CVS’
chief executive officer. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the
Caremark directors breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the
proposed merger with CVS and that the CVS defendants aided and abetted such
breaches of duty. The plaintiff seeks, among other things, preliminary and
permanent injunctive relief to prevent the proposed merger, to direct the
defendants to obtain a transaction that is in the best interests of Caremark,
and to impose a constructive trust upon any benefits improperly received by the
defendants. In January 2007, the plaintiff filed an amended class action
complaint and moved for expedited discovery and preliminary injunctive relief.
The amended class action complaint adds allegations that the joint proxy
statement/prospectus filed on December 19, 2006 omits certain material
information. On January 8, 2007, the court stayed the lawsuit. On January 10,
2007, the plaintiff moved to vacate the stay order. On January 19, 2007, that motion
was denied.

The Louisiana Municipal
Police Employees’ Retirement System also filed a purported class action lawsuit
purportedly on behalf of Caremark stockholders in the Delaware Court of
Chancery against Caremark’s directors and CVS. The complaint alleges, among
other things, that the directors breached their fiduciary duties by entering
into the proposed merger with CVS. The complaint also alleges that the joint
proxy statement/prospectus filed on December 19, 2006 omits certain material
information. The plaintiff seeks, among other things, preliminary and permanent
injunctive relief to prevent the proposed merger. The lawsuit was amended in
January 2007 to add the R.W. Grand Lodge of Free & Accepted Masons of
Pennsylvania as a plaintiff and to add Caremark Rx, Inc. as a defendant. On
February 12, 2007, Caremark filed a Form 8-K containing supplemental
disclosures concerning the proposed merger between Caremark and CVS. That same
day, plaintiffs moved to delay the Caremark shareholder meeting, then scheduled
for February 20, 2007. On February 13, 2007, the court enjoined any shareholder
vote concerning a merger between Caremark and any other party until at least
March 9, 2007 in order to afford time for shareholders to fully consider the
Caremark supplemental disclosures. A hearing on the plaintiffs’ request for
preliminary injunctive relief was held on February 16, 2007. On February 23,
2007, the Court denied plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction
enjoining the planned merger 


 13 






between CVS and Caremark,
but delayed the Caremark shareholder vote on the CVS merger until twenty days
after Caremark makes supplemental disclosures regarding Caremark shareholders’ right
to seek appraisal and the structure of fees to be paid by Caremark to its
financial advisors. The supplemental disclosures were mailed to Caremark
shareholders on February 24, 2007.

In January 2007, Express
Scripts and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP (“Skadden”), filed a
lawsuit in the Delaware Court of Chancery against Caremark, its directors, CVS,
and AdvancePCS. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the directors
breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the proposed transaction with
CVS. The plaintiffs seek, among other things, declaratory relief and
preliminary and permanent injunctive relief to prevent the proposed merger. The
plaintiffs also seek declaratory relief holding that Skadden’s representation
of Express Scripts does not violate Skadden’s professional, ethical, or
contractual obligations. This lawsuit is proceeding on a coordinated basis with
the earlier filed lawsuit in the Delaware Court of Chancery as described in the
preceding paragraph.

In January 2007, Pirelli
Armstrong Tire Corporation Retiree Medical Benefits Trust filed a shareholder
derivative action in United States District Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee on behalf of Caremark against the Caremark board of directors and
CVS. The complaint alleges that the defendants disseminated misleading proxy
materials and seeks preliminary and permanent injunctive relief. In particular,
plaintiff seeks to enjoin the Caremark shareholder vote on the proposed merger
until such time as defendants’ failure to disclose material information is
remedied, and all material information regarding the proposed transaction is
made available to Caremark’s shareholders. On January 24, 2007, plaintiff filed
motions for a preliminary injunction and for expedited discovery. On January
30, 2007, that motion was denied and the case was stayed pending the outcome of
the Delaware litigation.

In addition to these
recently filed lawsuits, a second amended shareholder derivative and class
action complaint purportedly on behalf of Caremark stockholders was filed in
November 2006 by the plaintiffs in the pending In Re: Caremark Rx, Inc. Stock
Option Litigation in the Circuit Court for Davidson County, Tennessee. The
purported second amended complaint includes purported class action allegations
challenging the proposed merger and adds CVS as a defendant. Among other
things, the second amended complaint alleges that the Caremark directors
approved the merger agreement to avoid personal liability in the pending
derivative litigation relating to the alleged backdating of stock options. The
second amended complaint also alleges that CVS aided and abetted the alleged
wrongdoing by the directors of Caremark. The plaintiffs seek, among other things,
a declaration that the directors breached their fiduciary duties, injunctive
relief preventing the defendants from completing the proposed merger,
imposition of a constructive trust upon any illegal profits received by the
defendants, and punitive damages. In December 2006, the plaintiffs moved for
leave to file a third amended shareholder derivative and class action complaint
and moved for expedited discovery. In January 2007, the defendants opposed the
addition of merger-related claims and expedited discovery. On January 12, 2007,
the court ruled that the plaintiffs will be permitted to file an amended
complaint addressing only their alleged stock options claims and will not be
permitted to seek relief with respect to the proposed merger.

In November 2006, the
plaintiffs in the pending In Re: Caremark Rx, Inc. Derivative Litigation in the
United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee moved for
leave to file a first amended shareholder derivative and class action complaint
to add class action allegations challenging the proposed merger. Among other
things, the proposed first amended complaint alleges that the Caremark
directors approved the merger agreement to avoid personal liability in the
pending derivative litigation relating to the alleged backdating of stock
options. In the proposed first amended complaint, the plaintiffs seek, among
other things, a declaration that the proposed merger is unfair to the
plaintiffs, injunctive relief preventing the defendants from completing the proposed
merger, and imposition of a constructive trust upon any illegal profits
received by the defendants. The plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend, which is
opposed, is pending.

We have been
informed by Caremark that it believes the allegations made in these stockholder
lawsuits lack merit and intends to defend them vigorously. CVS believes the
allegations pertaining to CVS in the stockholder lawsuits are void of merit and
intends to defend them vigorously. The
foregoing is not a comprehensive listing and there can be no assurance that we
have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting the
business. As such, we refer you to the “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which includes our “Cautionary
Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” at the end of such section, on
pages 26 through 27 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year
ended December 30, 2006, which is incorporated by reference herein.


 14 






Item 1B