. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various industry, economic, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially adversely affected by any one or more of the following risk factors and by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial: Risks of declining gross margins in the PBM and retail pharmacy. The PBM industry has been experiencing margin pressure as a result of competitive pressures and increased client demands for lower prices, enhanced service offerings and/or higher service levels. In that regard, we maintain contractual relationships with generic pharmaceutical manufacturers and brand name pharmaceutical manufacturers that provide for purchase discounts and/or rebates on drugs dispensed by pharmacies in our retail network and by our mail order pharmacies (all or a portion of which may be passed on to clients). Manufacturer rebates often depend on a PBM’s ability to meet contractual market share or other requirements, including in some cases the placement of a manufacturer’s products on the PBM’s formularies. If we lose our relationship with one or more pharmaceutical manufacturers, or if the discounts or rebates provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Further, competitive pressures in the PBM industry have resulted in our clients sharing in a larger portion of rebates and/or discounts received from pharmaceutical manufacturers. Market dynamics and regulatory changes have impacted our ability to offer plan sponsors pricing that includes the use of retail “differential” or “spread”, which could negatively impact our future profitability. Further, changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, purchase discount and rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, or to formulary management or other PBM services could also reduce the discounts or rebates we receive. In addition, changes in federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to claims processing and billing, including our ability to collect transmission fees, could adversely impact our profitability.  Our Retail Pharmacy Segment has also been impacted by the margin pressures described above including client demands for lower prices, generic pricing and network reimbursement pressure. In addition, as competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, and this could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. In addition, many pharmacy benefit plans have implemented plan designs that mandate or provide incentives to fill maintenance medications through mail order pharmacies. To the extent this trend continues, any negative impact in our retail pharmacy could outweigh an increase in our own mail order business and/or an increase in participation in our Maintenance Choice program.Efforts to reduce reimbursement levels and alter health care financing practices. The continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, PBM companies, government entities, and other third party payors to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates may impact our profitability. In particular, increased utilization of generic pharmaceuticals (which normally yield a higher gross profit rate than equivalent brand named drugs) has resulted in pressure to decrease reimbursement payments to retail and mail order pharmacies for generic drugs, causing a reduction in the generic profit rate. Historically, the effect of this trend on generic profitability has been mitigated by our efforts to negotiate reduced acquisition costs of generic pharmaceuticals with manufacturers. However, in recent years, there has been significant consolidation within the generic manufacturing industry, and it is possible that this and other external factors may enhance the ability of manufacturers to sustain or increase pricing of generic pharmaceuticals and diminish our ability to negotiate reduced acquisition costs. Any inability to offset increased costs or to modify our activities to lessen the impact could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, during the past several years, the United States health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation and audits at both the federal and state levels. Efforts to control health care costs, including prescription drug costs, are continuing at the federal and state government levels. Changing political, economic and regulatory influences may significantly affect health care financing and reimbursement practices. A change in the composition of pharmacy prescription volume toward programs offering lower reimbursement rates could negatively impact our profitability.  ACA made several significant changes to Medicaid rebates and to reimbursement. One of these changes was to revise the definition of the Average Manufacturer Price, a pricing element common to most payment formulas, and the reimbursement formula for multi-source (i.e., generic) drugs. In addition, ACA made other changes that affect the coverage and plan designs that are or will be provided by many of our health plan clients, including the requirement for health insurers to meet a minimum medical loss ratio to avoid having to pay rebates to enrollees. These ACA changes may not affect our business directly, but they could indirectly impact our services and/or business practices.15A highly competitive business environment. Each of the retail pharmacy business and the pharmacy services business currently operates in a highly competitive and evolving health care environment. Our competitive success is impacted by the ability of our retail pharmacy business to establish and maintain contractual relationships with PBMs and other payors on acceptable terms and by the ability of our pharmacy services business to establish and maintain contractual relationships with network pharmacies in an environment where some PBM clients are considering adopting narrow or restricted retail pharmacy networks. As a pharmacy retailer, we compete with other drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, independent pharmacies, membership clubs, Internet companies, convenience stores and mass merchants, many of which are expanding into markets we serve. We also face competition from retail health clinics, as well as other mail order pharmacies and PBMs. In addition, some of these competitors may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. Competition may also come from other sources in the future. Competitors in the PBM industry (e.g., Express Scripts, OptumRx, Catamaran, Prime Therapeutics, MedImpact and Humana), include large, national PBM companies, PBMs owned by large national health plans and smaller standalone PBMs. Some of these competitors may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. In addition, competition may also come from other sources in the future. Unless we can demonstrate enhanced value to our clients through innovative product and service offerings, particularly in a rapidly changing industry, we may be unable to remain competitive. In addition, changes in the overall composition of our pharmacy networks, or reduced pharmacy access under our networks, could adversely affect our claims volume and/or our competitiveness generally.Risks related to compliance with a broad and complex regulatory framework. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. See “Business - Government Regulation.” In addition, during the past several years, the United States health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation and enforcement activity at both the federal and state levels. Changes in these regulations may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including, but not limited to: imposition of civil or criminal penalties; suspension or disgorgement of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications or approvals; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; or loss of registrations or licensure. The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: the laws and regulations described in the Government Regulation section; accounting standards; securities laws and regulations; tax laws and regulations; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous materials and wastes; and laws and regulations of the FTC, the FCC, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the sale, advertisement and promotion of products that we sell, such as Boards of Pharmacy. The FDA, DEA and various states regulate the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level registrations and licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substances Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding and distribution of controlled substances. The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our registrations and licenses, seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. In addition, our business interests outside of the United States are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable domestic and international laws and regulations. We are also subject to the terms of various government agreements and mandates, including those described in the Government Regulation section. In that regard, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected by existing and new government legislative, regulatory action and enforcement activity, including, without limitation, any one or more of the following: •federal and state laws and regulations concerning the submission of claims for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs;•federal and state laws and regulations governing the purchase, distribution, tracking, management, compounding, dispensing and reimbursement of prescription drugs and related services, whether at retail or mail, and applicable registration or licensing requirements; •the effect of the expiration of patents covering brand name drugs and the introduction of generic products; 16•the frequency and rate of approvals by the FDA of new brand name and generic drugs, or of over-the-counter status for brand name drugs;•rules and regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA and the HITECH Act; and other federal and state laws affecting the collection, use, disclosure and transmission of health or other personal information, such as federal laws on information privacy precipitated by concerns about information collection through the Internet, state security breach laws and state laws limiting the use and disclosure of prescriber information; •consumer protection laws affecting our health care services, our loyalty programs, the products we sell, the informational calls we make and/or the marketing of our goods and services;•federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business, including the management of hazardous substances, storage and transportation of hazardous materials, and various recordkeeping disclosure and procedure requirements promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration that may apply to our operations;•health care reform, managed care reform and plan design legislation;•FDA regulation affecting the retail or PBM industry;•government regulation of the development, administration, review and updating of formularies and drug lists including requirements and/or limitations around formulary tiering and patient cost sharing; •federal and state laws and regulations establishing or changing prompt payment requirements for payments to retail pharmacies; •impact of network access legislation or regulations, including “any willing provider” laws, on our ability to manage pharmacy networks;•administration of Medicare Part D, including legislative changes and/or CMS rulemaking and interpretation; •insurance licensing and other insurance regulatory requirements applicable to offering Medicare Part D programs and services or other health care services; •government regulation allowing the importation of prescription drugs from Canada and elsewhere into the United States; and •direct regulation of pharmacies or PBMs by regulatory and quasi-regulatory bodies. The health of the economy in general and in the markets we serve. Our business is affected by the economy in general, including changes in consumer purchasing power, preferences and/or spending patterns. Although an economic recovery might be underway, it is possible that a worsening of the economic environment will cause a decline in drug utilization, and dampen demand for pharmacy benefit management services as well as consumer demand for products sold in our retail stores. Further, interest rate fluctuations, changes in capital market conditions and regulatory changes may affect our ability to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, our ability to secure suitable store locations under acceptable terms and our ability to execute sale-leaseback transactions under acceptable terms. These circumstances could result in an adverse effect on our business and financial results. The possibility of PBM client loss and/or the failure to win new PBM business. Our PBM business generates net revenues primarily by contracting with clients to provide prescription drugs and related health care services to plan members. PBM client contracts often have terms of approximately three years in duration, so approximately one third of a PBM’s client base typically is subject to renewal each year. In some cases, however, PBM clients may negotiate a shorter or longer contract term or may require early or periodic renegotiation of pricing prior to expiration of a contract. In addition, the reputational impact of a service-related incident could negatively affect our ability to grow and retain our client base. Further, the PBM industry has been impacted by consolidation activity that may continue in the future. In the event one or more of our PBM clients is acquired by an entity that is not also our client, we may be unable to retain all or a portion of the acquired business. These circumstances, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in an adverse effect 17on our business and financial results. Therefore, we continually face challenges in competing for new PBM business and retaining or renewing our existing PBM business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to win new business or secure renewal business on terms as favorable to us as the present terms.Risks related to the frequency and rate of the introduction of generic drugs and brand name prescription products. The profitability of our business is dependent upon the utilization of prescription drug products. Utilization trends are affected by, among other factors, the introduction of new and successful prescription pharmaceuticals as well as lower-priced generic alternatives to existing brand name products. Accordingly, our business could be impacted by a slowdown in the introduction of new and successful prescription pharmaceuticals and/or generic alternatives (the sale of which normally yield higher gross profit margins than brand name equivalents).The failure or disruption of our information technology systems, our information security systems and our infrastructure to support our business and to protect the privacy and security of sensitive customer and business information. Many aspects of our operations are dependent on our information systems and the information collected, processed, stored, and handled by these systems. We rely heavily on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, claims processing, ExtraCare customer loyalty program, finance, human resource and other processes. Throughout our operations, we receive, retain and transmit certain confidential information, including PII that our customers and clients provide to purchase products or services, enroll in programs or services, register on our websites, interact with our personnel, or otherwise communicate with us. In addition, for these operations, we depend in part on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches including credit card information breaches, vandalism, catastrophic events and human error. Although we deploy a layered approach to address information security threats and vulnerabilities, including ones from a cybersecurity standpoint, designed to protect confidential information against data security breaches, a compromise of our information security controls or of those businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions and claims from customers and clients, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. Moreover, a data security breach could require that we expend significant resources related to our information systems and infrastructure, and could distract management and other key personnel from performing their primary operational duties. If our information systems are damaged, fail to work properly or otherwise become unavailable, or if we are unable to successfully complete our planned consolidation of our PBM claims adjudication platforms, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience reputational damage, loss of critical information, customer disruption and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform essential functions and implement new and innovative services. In addition, compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may result in considerable expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. Risks relating to the market availability, suppliers and safety profiles of prescription drugs that we purchase and sell.  We dispense significant volumes of brand-name and generic drugs from our retail and mail-order pharmacies and through our PBM’s network of retail pharmacies. When increased safety risk profiles or manufacturing or other supply issues of specific drugs or classes of drugs occur, or drugs become subject to greater restrictions as controlled substances, physicians may cease writing prescriptions for these drugs or the utilization of these drugs may be otherwise reduced. For example, on October 6, 2014, the final DEA rule moving hydrocodone combination products from schedule III to schedule II became effective. Additionally, adverse publicity regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs. On occasion, products are withdrawn by their manufacturers or transition to over-the-counter products, which can result in lower prescription utilization. In addition, future FDA rulings could restrict the supply or increase the cost of products sold to our customers. Our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline as a result of such regulatory rulings or market changes.Regulatory and business changes relating to our participation in Medicare Part D. Since its inception in 2006, Medicare Part D has resulted in increased utilization and decreased pharmacy gross margin rates due to regulatory and competitive pressures. Further, as a result of ACA and changes to the retiree drug subsidy rules, our PBM clients could decide to discontinue providing prescription drug benefits to their Medicare-eligible members. To the extent this 18occurs, the adverse effects of increasing customer migration into Medicare Part D may outweigh the benefits we realize from growth of our Medicare Part D business. In addition, if the cost and complexity of Medicare Part D exceed management’s expectations or prevent effective program implementation or administration; if changes to the regulations regarding how drug costs are reported for Medicare Part D are implemented in a manner that impacts the profitability of our Medicare Part D business; if changes to the regulations impact our ability to retain fees from third parties including network pharmacies; if the government alters Medicare program requirements or reduces funding because of the higher-than-anticipated cost to taxpayers of Medicare Part D or for other reasons; if we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants; if CMS imposes restrictions on our Medicare Part D business as a result of audits or other regulatory actions; if we fail to successfully implement corrective action or other remedial measures sufficient to prevent or remove any applicable restrictions that may be imposed by CMS; or if we are not successful in retaining enrollees, or winning contract renewals or new contracts under Medicare Part D’s competitive bidding process, our Medicare Part D services and the ability to expand our Medicare Part D services could be negatively impacted.  Reform of the United States health care system. Congressional efforts to reform the United States health care system finally came to fruition in 2010 with the passage of ACA, which is resulting in significant structural changes to the health insurance system. See “Business - Government Regulation”.Although many of the structural changes enacted by ACA were implemented in 2014, some of the applicable regulations and sub-regulatory guidance have not yet been issued and/or finalized. Therefore, there remains considerable uncertainty as to the full impact of ACA on our business. While these reforms may not affect our business directly, they affect the coverage and plan designs that are or will be provided by many of our health plan clients, including plan designs that include limited networks, a requirement to use mail service pharmacies for certain medications or formulary tiering. As a result, they could indirectly impact many of our services and business practices. We cannot predict what effect, if any, all of the ACA changes may have on our retail pharmacy and pharmacy services businesses, and it is possible that other legislative or market-driven changes in the health care system that we cannot anticipate could also occur.Possible changes in industry pricing benchmarks. It is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace Average Wholesale Price (“AWP”), which is the pricing reference used for many of our PBM client contracts, pharmaceutical purchase agreements, retail network contracts, specialty payor agreements and other contracts with third party payors in connection with the reimbursement of drug payments. Future changes to the use of AWP or to other published pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by federal and state health programs and/or other payors, could impact the reimbursement we receive from Medicare and Medicaid programs, the reimbursement we receive from PBM clients and other payors and/or our ability to negotiate rebates and/or discounts with pharmaceutical manufacturers, wholesalers, PBMs and retail pharmacies. The effect of these possible changes on our business cannot be predicted at this time.Product liability, product recall or personal injury issues could damage our reputation; failure to maintain adequate liability insurance coverage. The products that we sell could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling, recall or other damage. In addition, errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. Product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell or services we provide. Our business involves the provision of professional services including by pharmacists, nurses and nurse practitioners that exposes us to professional liability claims. Should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us may not be adequate to protect us against claims. We also may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Damage to our reputation in the event of a product liability or personal injury issue or judgment against us or a product recall could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Relationship with our retail customers and the demand for our products and services, including propriety brands.The success of our business depends in part on customer loyalty, superior customer service and our ability to persuade customers to purchase products in additional categories and our proprietary brands. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and spending patterns, an inability to expand the products being purchased by our clients and customers, or the failure or inability to obtain or offer particular categories of products could negatively affect our relationship with our clients and customers and the demand for our products and services.19We offer our retail customers proprietary brand products that are available exclusively at our retail stores and through our online retail sites. The sale of proprietary products subjects us to unique risks including potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls, our ability to successfully protect our intellectual property rights and the rights of applicable third parties, and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, market and sell private-label products. Any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, an increase in the sales of our proprietary brands may negatively affect our sales of products owned by our suppliers which, consequently, could adversely impact certain of our supplier relationships. Our ability to locate qualified, economically stable suppliers who satisfy our requirements, and to acquire sufficient products in a timely and effective manner, is critical to ensuring, among other things, that customer confidence is not diminished. Any failure to develop sourcing relationships with a broad and deep supplier base could adversely affect our financial performance and erode customer loyalty.Finally, customer expectations and new technology advances from our competitors have required that our business evolve so that we are able to interface with our retail customers not only face-to-face in our stores but also online and via mobile and social media. Our customers are using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other electronic devices to shop in our stores and online, as well as to provide public reactions concerning each facet of our operation. If we fail to keep pace with dynamic customer expectations and new technology developments, our ability to compete and maintain customer loyalty could be adversely affected. Risks related to the seasonality of our business.Although the majority of our revenues, particularly pharmacy revenues, are generally not seasonal in nature, front store revenues tend to be higher during the December holiday season. Uncharacteristic or extreme weather conditions can adversely impact consumer shopping patterns as well. This could lead to lost sales, as well as increased snow removal and other costs, thereby negatively affecting our short-term results of operations. In addition, both pharmacy and front store revenues are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, which is susceptible to large fluctuations from year to year. Risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. Pharmacy services and retail pharmacy are highly regulated and litigious industries. We are currently subject to various litigation matters, investigations, audits, government inquiries, regulatory and legal proceedings. Litigation, and particularly securities and collective or class action litigation, is often expensive and disruptive. We cannot predict the outcome of such matters, and the costs incurred may be substantial regardless of outcome. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, or we may be required to materially change our business practices, as a result of such proceedings. We refer you to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for additional information. The foregoing is not a comprehensive listing of all possible risks and there can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting the business. As such, we refer you to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which includes our “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” at the end of such section, of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2014, which section is incorporated by reference herein.Item 1B