Item 1A.    Risk
    Factors


 


    Chevron is a major fully integrated petroleum company with a
    diversified business portfolio, a strong balance sheet, and a
    history of generating sufficient cash to fund capital and
    exploratory expenditures and to pay dividends. Nevertheless,
    some inherent risks could materially impact the company’s
    financial results of operations or financial condition.


 



    Chevron
    is exposed to the effects of changing commodity
    prices.


 


    Chevron is primarily in a commodities business with a history of
    price volatility. The single largest variable that affects the
    company’s results of operations is crude-oil prices. Except
    in the ordinary course of running an integrated petroleum
    business, Chevron does not seek to hedge its exposure to price
    changes. A significant, persistent decline in crude-oil prices
    may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations
    and its capital and exploratory expenditure plans.


 



    The
    scope of Chevron’s business will decline if the company
    does not successfully develop resources.


 


    The company is in an extractive business; therefore, if Chevron
    is not successful in replacing the crude oil and natural gas it
    produces with good prospects for future production, the
    company’s business will decline. Creating and maintaining
    an inventory of projects depends on many factors, including
    obtaining and renewing rights to explore, develop and produce
    hydrocarbons; drilling success; ability to bring long-lead-time,
    capital-intensive projects to completion on budget and schedule;
    and efficient and profitable operation of mature properties.


 



    The
    company’s operations could be disrupted by natural or human
    factors.


 


    Chevron operates in both urban areas and remote and sometimes
    inhospitable regions. The company’s operations and
    facilities are therefore subject to disruption from either
    natural or human causes, including hurricanes, floods and other
    forms of severe weather, war, civil unrest and other political
    events, fires, earthquakes, and explosions, any of which could
    result in suspension of operations or harm to people or the
    natural environment.


 



    Chevron’s
    business subjects the company to liability risks.


 


    The company produces, transports, refines and markets materials
    with potential toxicity, and it purchases, handles and disposes
    of other potentially toxic materials in the course of the
    company’s business. Chevron operations also produce
    byproducts, which may be considered pollutants. Any of these
    activities could result in liability, either as a result of an
    accidental, unlawful discharge or as a result of new conclusions
    on the effects of the company’s operations on human health
    or the environment.


 



    Political
    instability could harm Chevron’s business.


 


    The company’s operations, particularly exploration and
    production, can be affected by changing economic, regulatory and
    political environments in the various countries in which it
    operates. As has occurred in the past, actions could be taken by
    governments to increase public ownership of the company’s
    partially or wholly owned businesses
    and/or to
    impose additional taxes or royalties.


 


    In certain locations, governments have imposed restrictions,
    controls and taxes, and in others, political conditions have
    existed that may threaten the safety of employees and the
    company’s continued presence in those countries. Internal
    unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a
    government and the company or other governments may affect the
    company’s operations. Those developments have, at times,
    significantly affected the company’s related operations and
    results and are carefully considered by management when
    evaluating the level of current and future activity in such
    countries. At December 31, 2007, 26 percent of the
    company’s proved reserves were located in Kazakhstan. The
    company also has significant interests in Organization of
    Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)–member countries
    including Angola, Indonesia, Nigeria and Venezuela. Twenty-eight
    percent of the company’s net proved reserves, including
    affiliates, were located in OPEC countries at December 31,
    2007.



    
    32



Table of Contents





    Regulation
    of greenhouse gas emissions could increase Chevron’s
    operational costs and reduce demand for Chevron’s
    products.


 


    Management believes it is reasonably likely that the scientific
    and political attention to issues concerning the existence and
    extent of climate change, and the role of human activity in it,
    will continue, with the potential for further regulation that
    affects the company’s operations. Although uncertain, these
    developments could increase costs or reduce the demand for the
    products the company sells. The company’s production and
    processing operations (e.g., the production of crude oil at
    offshore platforms and the processing of natural gas at
    liquefied natural gas facilities) typically result in emissions
    of greenhouse gases. Likewise, emissions arise from midstream
    and downstream operations, including crude oil transportation
    and refining. Finally, although beyond the control of the
    company, the use of passenger vehicle fuels and related products
    by consumers also results in greenhouse gas emissions that may
    be regulated.


 


    International agreements, domestic legislation and regulatory
    measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions are currently in
    various phases of discussion or implementation. These include
    the Kyoto Protocol, proposed federal legislation and current
    state-level actions. Some of the countries in which Chevron
    operates have ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and the company is
    currently complying with greenhouse gas emissions limits within
    the European Union. Although resolutions supporting “cap
    and trade” systems have been introduced in the
    U.S. Congress, no bill restricting greenhouse gas emissions
    has been passed to date.


 


    In California, the Global Warming Solutions Act became effective
    on January 1, 2007. This law caps California’s
    greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels by 2020; directs the Air
    Resources Board, the responsible state agency, to determine
    certain greenhouse gas emissions in and outside California to
    adopt mandatory reporting rules for significant sources of
    greenhouse gases; delegates to the agency the authority to adopt
    compliance mechanisms (including market-based approaches); and
    permits a one-year extension of the targets under extraordinary
    circumstances. Related regulatory activity is under way within
    the California Public Utilities Commission. The Air Resources
    Board and the California Energy Commission are also in the
    process of developing a “Low Carbon Fuel Standard” for
    transportation fuels used in California, as directed by Governor
    Arnold Schwarzenegger. The company extracts crude oil and
    natural gas, operates refineries, and markets and sells
    gasoline, diesel and jet fuel in California. The extent to which
    the state and local agencies’ regulations will affect the
    company’s California operations was not known as of early
    2008.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B