Item 1A. Risk Factors on pages 32
    through 34 for a discussion of greenhouse gas regulation and
    climate change.



 



    Web Site
    Access to SEC Reports


 


    The company’s Internet Web site is www.chevron.com.
    Information contained on the company’s Internet Web site is
    not part of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    The company’s Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available free of charge on the company’s Web site
    soon after such reports are filed with or furnished to the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The reports are also
    available on the SEC’s Web site at www.sec.gov.




    
    31



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Chevron is a global energy company with a diversified business
    portfolio, a strong balance sheet, and a history of generating
    sufficient cash to fund capital and exploratory expenditures and
    to pay dividends. Nevertheless, some inherent risks could
    materially impact the company’s financial results of
    operations or financial condition.


 



    Chevron
    is exposed to the effects of changing commodity
    prices.


 


    Chevron is primarily in a commodities business with a history of
    price volatility. The single largest variable that affects the
    company’s results of operations is the price of crude oil,
    which can be influenced by general economic conditions and
    geopolitical risk. Chevron accepts the risk of changing
    commodity prices as part of its business planning process. As
    such, an investment in the company carries significant exposure
    to fluctuations in crude oil prices.


 


    During extended periods of historically low prices for crude
    oil, the company’s upstream earnings and capital and
    exploratory expenditure programs will be negatively affected.
    Upstream assets may also become impaired. The impact on
    downstream earnings is dependent upon the supply and demand for
    refined products and the associated margins on refined product
    sales.


 



    The
    scope of Chevron’s business will decline if the company
    does not successfully develop resources.


 


    The company is in an extractive business; therefore, if Chevron
    is not successful in replacing the crude oil and natural gas it
    produces with good prospects for future production or through
    acquisitions, the company’s business will decline. Creating
    and maintaining an inventory of projects depends on many
    factors, including obtaining and renewing rights to explore,
    develop and produce hydrocarbons; drilling success; ability to
    bring long-lead-time, capital-intensive projects to completion
    on budget and schedule; and efficient and profitable operation
    of mature properties.


 



    The
    company’s operations could be disrupted by natural or human
    factors.


 


    Chevron operates in both urban areas and remote and sometimes
    inhospitable regions. The company’s operations and
    facilities are therefore subject to disruption from either
    natural or human causes beyond its control, including
    hurricanes, floods and other forms of severe weather, war, civil
    unrest and other political events, fires, earthquakes,
    explosions and system failures, any of which could result in
    suspension of operations or harm to people or the natural
    environment.


 



    The
    company’s operations have inherent risks and hazards that
    require significant and continuous oversight.


 


    Chevron’s results depend on its ability to identify and
    mitigate the risks and hazards inherent to operating in the
    crude oil and natural gas industry. The company seeks to
    minimize these operational risks by carefully designing and
    building its facilities and conducting its operations in a safe
    and reliable manner. However, failure to manage these risks
    effectively could result in unexpected incidents, including
    releases, explosions or mechanical failures resulting in
    personal injury, loss of life, environmental damage, loss of
    revenues, legal liability
    and/or
    disruption to operations. Chevron has implemented and maintains
    a system of policies, behaviors and compliance mechanisms to
    manage safety, health, environmental, reliability and efficiency
    risks; to verify compliance with applicable laws and policies;
    and to respond to and learn from unexpected incidents.
    Nonetheless, in certain situations where Chevron is not the
    operator, the company may have limited influence and control
    over third parties, which may limit its ability to manage and
    control such risks.


 



    Chevron’s
    business subjects the company to liability risks from litigation
    or government action.


 


    The company produces, transports, refines and markets materials
    with potential toxicity, and it purchases, handles and disposes
    of other potentially toxic materials in the course of the
    company’s business. Chevron operations also produce
    byproducts, which may be considered pollutants. Often these
    operations are conducted through joint ventures over which the
    company may have limited influence and control. Any of these
    activities could result in liability arising from private
    litigation or government action, either as a result of an
    accidental, unlawful discharge or as a result of new conclusions
    on the effects of the company’s operations on human health
    or the environment. In addition, to the extent that societal
    pressures or political or other factors are involved, it is
    possible that such liability could be imposed without regard to
    the company’s causation of or contribution to the asserted
    damage, or to other mitigating factors.




    
    32



Table of Contents






    Political
    instability could harm Chevron’s business.


 


    The company’s operations, particularly exploration and
    production, can be affected by changing economic, regulatory and
    political environments in the various countries in which it
    operates. As has occurred in the past, actions could be taken by
    governments to increase public ownership of the company’s
    partially or wholly owned businesses or to impose additional
    taxes or royalties.


 


    In certain locations, governments have imposed restrictions,
    controls and taxes, and in others, political conditions have
    existed that may threaten the safety of employees and the
    company’s continued presence in those countries. Internal
    unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a
    government and the company or other governments may affect
    the company’s operations. Those developments have, at
    times, significantly affected the company’s related
    operations and results and are carefully considered by
    management when evaluating the level of current and future
    activity in such countries. At December 31, 2010,
    25 percent of the company’s net proved reserves were
    located in Kazakhstan. The company also has significant
    interests in Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
    (OPEC)-member countries including Angola, Nigeria and
    Venezuela and in the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and
    Kuwait. Twenty-three percent of the company’s net proved
    reserves, including affiliates, were located in OPEC countries
    at December 31, 2010.


 



    Regulation
    of greenhouse gas emissions could increase Chevron’s
    operational costs and reduce demand for Chevron’s
    products.


 


    Continued political attention to issues concerning climate
    change, the role of human activity in it, and potential
    mitigation through regulation could have a material impact on
    the company’s operations and financial results.


 


    International agreements and national or regional legislation
    and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse emissions are
    currently in various stages of discussion or implementation. For
    instance, the Kyoto Protocol and California’s Global
    Warming Solutions Act, along with other actual or pending
    federal, state and provincial regulations, envision a reduction
    of greenhouse gas emissions through market-based regulatory
    programs, technology-based or performance-based standards or a
    combination of them. The company is subject to existing
    greenhouse gas emissions limits in jurisdictions where such
    regulation is currently effective, including the European Union
    and New Zealand.


 


    In 2010, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
    finalized two regulations under the Clean Air Act that establish
    greenhouse gas emission standards for new light-duty vehicles
    and clarify preconstruction permitting requirements for new or
    modified stationary source facilities with greenhouse gas
    emissions that exceed 75,000 tons per year of carbon dioxide
    equivalent. In addition, the EPA recently agreed to develop
    additional regulations on greenhouse gas emissions from
    utilities and refineries. The agency is beginning to develop
    these new regulations, which are scheduled to be effective in
    May 2012 (utilities) and November 2012 (refineries), so it is
    not possible to predict their impact at this time.


 


    The U.S. Congress has previously considered and may in the
    future consider legislation aimed at reducing greenhouse gas
    emissions. At this time it is not possible to predict any
    specific Congressional actions in 2011 or beyond, and it is
    unclear how any such legislation would reconcile with the Clean
    Air Act or current EPA regulations.


 


    In December 2010, California adopted regulations implementing
    the cap and trade program requirements of the state’s
    Global Warming Solutions Act, also known as AB32. The first
    compliance period of the cap and trade program begins in 2012
    and ends in December 2014. Chevron may incur costs associated
    with emissions reduction activities, and the purchase of
    allowances or credits for its facilities in California. In
    addition, Chevron’s purchased energy costs from utilities
    may increase starting in January 2012, when electricity
    generators are required to purchase allowances or credits for
    electricity sold in California.


 


    These and other greenhouse gas emissions-related laws, policies
    and regulations may result in substantial capital, compliance,
    operating and maintenance costs. The level of expenditure
    required to comply with these laws and regulations is uncertain
    and is expected to vary by jurisdiction depending on the laws
    enacted in each jurisdiction, the company’s activities in
    it and market conditions. The company’s exploration and
    production of crude oil, natural gas and various minerals such
    as coal; the upgrading of production from oil sands into
    synthetic oil; power generation; the conversion of crude oil and
    natural gas into refined products; the processing, liquefaction
    and regasification of natural gas; the transportation of crude
    oil, natural gas and related products and consumers’ or
    customers’ use of the company’s products result in
    greenhouse gas emissions that could well be regulated. Some of
    these activities, such as consumers’ and customers’
    use of the company’s products, as well as actions taken by
    the company’s competitors in response to such laws and
    regulations, are beyond the company’s control.


 


    The effect of regulation on the company’s financial
    performance will depend on a number of factors including, among
    others, the sectors covered, the greenhouse gas emissions
    reductions required by law, the extent to which Chevron would





    
    33



Table of Contents





    be entitled to receive emission allowance allocations or would
    need to purchase compliance instruments on the open market or
    through auctions, the price and availability of emission
    allowances and credits, and the impact of legislation or other
    regulation on the company’s ability to recover the costs
    incurred through the pricing of the company’s products.
    Material price increases or incentives to conserve or use
    alternative energy sources could reduce demand for products the
    company currently sells and adversely affect the company’s
    sales volumes, revenues and margins.


 



    Changes
    in management’s estimates and assumptions may have a
    material impact on the company’s consolidated financial
    statements and financial or operations performance in any given
    period.


 


    In preparing the company’s periodic reports under the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including its financial
    statements, Chevron’s management is required under
    applicable rules and regulations to make estimates and
    assumptions as of a specified date. These estimates and
    assumptions are based on management’s best estimates and
    experience as of that date and are subject to substantial risk
    and uncertainty. Materially different results may occur as
    circumstances change and additional information becomes known.
    Areas requiring significant estimates and assumptions by
    management include measurement of benefit obligations for
    pension and other postretirement benefit plans; estimates of
    crude oil and natural gas recoverable reserves; accruals for
    estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves; and
    impairments to property, plant and equipment. Changes in
    estimates or assumptions or the information underlying the
    assumptions, such as changes in the company’s business
    plans, general market conditions or changes in commodity prices,
    could affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities or expenses.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B