Item 1A.    

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Chevron is a major fully integrated petroleum company with a
    diversified business portfolio, a strong balance sheet, and a
    history of generating sufficient cash to fund capital and
    exploratory expenditures and to pay dividends. Nevertheless,
    some inherent risks could materially impact the company’s
    financial results of operations or financial condition.


 



    Chevron
    is exposed to the effects of changing commodity
    prices.


 


    Chevron is primarily in a commodities business with a history of
    price volatility. The single largest variable that affects the
    company’s results of operations is the price of crude oil,
    which can be influenced by general economic conditions and
    geopolitical risk.


 


    During extended periods of historically low prices for crude
    oil, the company’s upstream earnings and capital and
    exploratory expenditure programs will be negatively affected.
    Upstream assets may also become impaired. The impact on
    downstream earnings is dependent upon the supply and demand for
    refined products and the associated margins on refined-product
    sales.


 



    The
    scope of Chevron’s business will decline if the company
    does not successfully develop resources.


 


    The company is in an extractive business; therefore, if Chevron
    is not successful in replacing the crude oil and natural gas it
    produces with good prospects for future production, the
    company’s business will decline. Creating and maintaining
    an inventory of projects depends on many factors, including
    obtaining and renewing rights to explore, develop and produce
    hydrocarbons; drilling success; ability to bring long-lead-time,
    capital-intensive projects to completion on budget and schedule;
    and efficient and profitable operation of mature properties.


 



    The
    company’s operations could be disrupted by natural or human
    factors.


 


    Chevron operates in both urban areas and remote and sometimes
    inhospitable regions. The company’s operations and
    facilities are therefore subject to disruption from either
    natural or human causes, including hurricanes, floods and other
    forms of severe weather, war, civil unrest and other political
    events, fires, earthquakes, and explosions, any of which could
    result in suspension of operations or harm to people or the
    natural environment.


 



    Chevron’s
    business subjects the company to liability risks.


 


    The company produces, transports, refines and markets materials
    with potential toxicity, and it purchases, handles and disposes
    of other potentially toxic materials in the course of the
    company’s business. Chevron operations also produce
    byproducts, which may be considered pollutants. Any of these
    activities could result in liability, either as a result of an
    accidental, unlawful discharge or as a result of new conclusions
    on the effects of the company’s operations on human health
    or the environment.


 



    Political
    instability could harm Chevron’s business.


 


    The company’s operations, particularly exploration and
    production, can be affected by changing economic, regulatory and
    political environments in the various countries in which it
    operates. As has occurred in the past, actions could be taken by
    governments to increase public ownership of the company’s
    partially or wholly owned businesses
    and/or to
    impose additional taxes or royalties.


 


    In certain locations, governments have imposed restrictions,
    controls and taxes, and in others, political conditions have
    existed that may threaten the safety of employees and the
    company’s continued presence in those countries. Internal
    unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a
    government and the company or other governments may affect the
    company’s operations. Those developments have, at times,
    significantly affected the company’s related operations and
    results and are carefully considered by management when
    evaluating the level of current and future activity in such
    countries. At December 31, 2008, 29 percent of the
    company’s net proved reserves were located in Kazakhstan.
    The company also has significant interests in Organization of
    Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)-member countries including
    Angola, Nigeria and Venezuela and in the Partitioned Neutral
    Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. Twenty-three percent of
    the company’s net proved reserves, including affiliates,
    were located in OPEC countries at December 31, 2008
    (excluding reserves in Indonesia, which relinquished its OPEC
    membership at the end of 2008).



    
    30



Table of Contents





    Regulation
    of greenhouse gas emissions could increase Chevron’s
    operational costs and reduce demand for Chevron’s
    products.


 


    Management expects continued political attention to issues
    concerning climate change, and the role of human activity in it
    and potential remediation or mitigation through regulation that
    could materially affect the company’s operations.


 


    International agreements and national or regional legislation
    and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse emissions are
    currently in various phases of discussion or implementation. The
    Kyoto Protocol, California’s Global Warming Solutions Act
    and Australia’s proposed Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme,
    along with other actual or pending federal, state and provincial
    regulations, envision a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
    through market-based trading schemes. The company is currently
    complying with greenhouse gas emissions limits within the
    European Union.


 


    As a result of these and other environmental regulations, the
    company expects to incur substantial capital, compliance,
    operating, maintenance and remediation costs. The level of
    expenditure required to comply with these laws and regulations
    is uncertain and may vary by jurisdiction depending on the laws
    enacted in each jurisdiction and the company’s activities
    in it. The company’s production and processing operations
    (e.g., the production of crude oil at offshore platforms and the
    processing of natural gas at liquefied natural gas facilities)
    typically result in emission of greenhouse gases. Likewise,
    emissions arise from power and downstream operations, including
    crude oil transportation and refining. Finally, although beyond
    the control of the company, the use of passenger vehicle fuels
    and related products by consumers also results in greenhouse gas
    emissions that may be regulated.


 


    The company’s financial performance will depend on a number
    of factors, including, among others, the greenhouse gas
    emissions reductions required by law, the price and availability
    of emission allowances and credits, the extent to which Chevron
    would be entitled to receive emission allowances or need to
    purchase them in the open market or through auctions and the
    impact of legislation on the company’s ability to recover
    the costs incurred through the pricing of the company’s
    products. Material cost increases or incentives to conserve or
    use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for products
    the company currently sells. To the extent these costs are not
    ultimately reflected in the price of the company’s
    products, the company’s operating results will be adversely
    affected.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B