Item 1A. Risk Factors,” as well as
    those factors summarized below:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    sustained or further declines in the prices we receive for our
    oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties about the estimated quantities of oil and natural
    gas reserves, including uncertainties about the effects of the
    SEC’s new rules governing oil and natural gas reserve
    reporting;




 



     
        • 

    
    drilling and operating risks;




 



     
        • 

    
    the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity including,
    but not limited to, access to additional borrowing capacity
    under our credit facility;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effects of government regulation, permitting and other legal
    requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficult and adverse conditions in the domestic and global
    capital and credit markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    risks related to the concentration of our operations in the
    Permian Basin of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential financial losses or earnings reductions from our
    commodity price risk management program;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of oilfield equipment, services and qualified
    personnel and increased costs for such equipment, services and
    personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    risks and liabilities associated with acquired properties or
    businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties about our ability to successfully execute our
    business and financial plans and strategies;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties about our ability to replace reserves and
    economically develop our current reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic and business conditions, either internationally
    or domestically or in the jurisdictions in which we operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition in the oil and natural gas industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainty concerning our assumed or possible future results of
    operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    our existing indebtedness.





 


    Reserve engineering is a process of estimating underground
    accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in
    an exact way. The accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on
    the quality of available data, the interpretation of such data
    and price and cost assumptions made by our reserve engineers. In
    addition, the results of drilling, testing and production
    activities may justify revisions of estimates that were made
    previously. If significant, such revisions would change the
    schedule of any further production and development drilling.
    Accordingly, reserve estimates may differ from the quantities of
    oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered.




    
    1



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business






 



    General


 


    Concho Resources Inc., a Delaware corporation
    (“Concho,” “Company,” “we,”
    “us” and “our”) is an independent oil and
    natural gas company engaged in the acquisition, development and
    exploration of oil and natural gas properties. Our core
    operating areas are located in the Permian Basin region of
    Southeast New Mexico and West Texas, a large onshore oil and
    natural gas basin in the United States. The Permian Basin is one
    of the most prolific oil and natural gas producing regions in
    the United States and is characterized by an extensive
    production history, mature infrastructure, long reserve life,
    multiple producing horizons and enhanced recovery potential. We
    refer to our two core operating areas as the (i) New Mexico
    Permian, where we primarily target the Yeso formation, and
    (ii) Texas Permian, where we primarily target the
    Wolfberry, a term applied to the combined Wolfcamp and Spraberry
    horizons. These core operating areas are complemented by
    activities in our emerging plays, which include the Lower Abo
    horizontal play in Southeast New Mexico and the Bakken/Three
    Forks play in North Dakota. We intend to grow our reserves and
    production through development drilling and exploration
    activities on our multi-year project inventory and through
    acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial objectives.


 


    We were formed in February 2006 as a result of the combination
    of Concho Equity Holdings Corp. and a portion of the oil and
    natural gas properties and related assets owned by Chase Oil
    Corporation (“Chase Oil”) and certain of its
    affiliates. Concho Equity Holdings Corp., which was subsequently
    merged into one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, was formed in
    April 2004 and represented the third of three Permian
    Basin-focused companies that have been formed since 1997 by
    certain members of our current management team (the prior two
    companies were sold to large domestic independent oil and
    natural gas companies).



 



    Wolfberry
    Acquisitions


 


    In December 2009, we closed two significant acquisitions of
    interests in producing and non-producing assets in the Wolfberry
    play in the Permian Basin for approximately $260 million,
    subject to usual and customary post-closing adjustments (the
    “Wolfberry Acquisitions”). The Wolfberry Acquisitions
    were primarily funded with borrowings under our credit facility.
    As of December 31, 2009, these acquisitions included
    estimated total proved reserves of 19.9 MMBoe, of which
    69 percent were oil and 25 percent were proved
    developed. Our 2009 results of operations do not include any
    production, revenues or costs from the Wolfberry Acquisitions.



 



    Henry
    Entities Acquisition


 


    On July 31, 2008, we closed our acquisition of Henry
    Petroleum LP and certain entities affiliated with Henry
    Petroleum LP (which we refer to collectively as the “Henry
    Entities”), together with certain additional non-operated
    interests in oil and natural gas properties from persons
    affiliated with the Henry Entities. In August 2008 and September
    2008, we acquired additional non-operated interests in oil and
    natural gas properties from persons affiliated with the Henry
    Entities (known as “along-side interests”). We paid
    approximately $583.7 million in net cash for the
    acquisition of the Henry Entities and the related acquisition of
    the along-side interests, which was funded with
    (i) borrowings under our credit facility and (ii) net
    proceeds of approximately $242.4 million from our private
    placement of 8,302,894 shares of our common stock. The oil
    and natural gas assets acquired in the acquisition of the Henry
    Entities and the along-side interests (which we refer to as the
    “Henry Properties”) contained approximately
    30.1 MMBoe of net proved reserves at the acquisition date.



 



    Business
    and Properties


 


    Our core operations are focused in the Permian Basin of
    Southeast New Mexico and West Texas. It underlies an area of
    Southeast New Mexico and West Texas approximately 250 miles
    wide and 300 miles long. Commercial accumulations of
    hydrocarbons occur in multiple stratigraphic horizons, at depths
    ranging from approximately 1,000 feet to over
    25,000 feet. At December 31, 2009, 97.3 percent
    of our total estimated net proved reserves were located in our
    core operating areas and consisted of approximately
    67.2 percent oil and 32.8 percent natural gas. We have
    assembled a multi-year inventory of development drilling and
    exploration projects, including projects to





    
    2



Table of Contents





    further evaluate the aerial extent of the Yeso formation and the
    Wolfberry play, that we believe will allow us to grow proved
    reserves and production. We also have significant acreage
    positions in active emerging plays in the Lower Abo horizontal
    play in Southeast New Mexico and the Bakken/Three Forks play in
    North Dakota. We view an emerging play as an area where we can
    acquire large undeveloped acreage positions and apply horizontal
    drilling
    and/or
    advanced fracture stimulation technologies to achieve economic
    and repeatable production results.


 


    The following table sets forth information with respect to
    drilling wells commenced during the periods indicated:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Years Ended December 31,




 


 


    2009


 


    2008



 






    Gross wells



 


 


    361.0


 


 


 


    243.0


 





    Net wells



 


 


    230.3


 


 


 


    157.2


 





    Percent of gross wells:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Producers



 


 


    81.7


    %


 


 


    86.8


    %





    Unsuccessful



 


 


    0.6


    %


 


 


    0.4


    %





    Awaiting completion at year-end



 


 


    17.7


    %


 


 


    12.8


    %




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


    100.0


    %


 


 


    100.0


    %




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    We produced approximately 10.9 MMBoe and 7.1 MMBoe of
    oil and natural gas during 2009 and 2008, respectively. In
    addition, we increased our average net daily production from
    25.4 MBoe during the fourth quarter of 2008 to
    30.9 MBoe during the fourth quarter of 2009. During 2009,
    we increased our total estimated net proved reserves by
    approximately 74.2 MMBoe, including acquisitions.



 



    Summary
    of Core Operating Areas and Emerging Plays


 


    The following is a summary of information regarding our core
    operating areas and emerging plays that are further described
    below:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Year Ended
    


 




 


 


    December 31, 2009


 


 


    December 31,
    


 




 


 


    Total 
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Gross
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    2009 Average
    


 




 


 


    Proved
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Identified
    


 


 


    Total 
    


 


 


    Total 
    


 


 


    Net Daily
    


 




 


 


    Reserves
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    % Proved
    


 


 


    Drilling
    


 


 


    Gross
    


 


 


    Net
    


 


 


    Production
    


 




    Areas


 


    (Mboe)


 


 


    PV-10


 


 


    % Oil


 


 


    Developed


 


 


    Locations


 


 


    Acreage


 


 


    Acreage


 


 


    (Boe per Day)


 




 


 


 


 


 


    ($ in millions)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 



 






    Core Operating Areas:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    New Mexico Permian



 


 


    128,605


 


 


    $


    1,824.3


 


 


 


    65.2


    %


 


 


    52.1


    %


 


 


    1,592


 


 


 


    150,214


 


 


 


    69,931


 


 


 


    19,586


 





    Texas Permian



 


 


    77,173


 


 


 


    856.9


 


 


 


    70.5


    %


 


 


    44.0


    %


 


 


    1,795


 


 


 


    287,961


 


 


 


    91,135


 


 


 


    8,113


 





    Emerging Plays:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Lower Abo



 


 


    2,707


 


 


 


    51.3


 


 


 


    63.3


    %


 


 


    54.6


    %


 


 


    152


 


 


 


    59,179


 


 


 


    48,401


 


 


 


    1,581


 





    Bakken/Three Forks



 


 


    2,642


 


 


 


    30.4


 


 


 


    77.6


    %


 


 


    35.2


    %


 


 


    146


 


 


 


    42,210


 


 


 


    11,193


 


 


 


    511


 





    Other



 


 


    376


 


 


 


    1.9


 


 


 


    3.0


    %


 


 


    83.8


    %


 


 


    10


 


 


 


    140,238


 


 


 


    56,287


 


 


 


    155


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    211,503


    (a)


 


    $


    2,764.8


    (b)


 


 


    67.1


    %


 


 


    49.0


    %


 


 


    3,695


    (c)


 


 


    679,802


 


 


 


    276,947


 


 


 


    29,946


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (a) 
    
    
    Includes additions of 13.6 MMBoe resulting from the
    adoption of the new SEC rules related to disclosures of oil and
    natural gas reserves that are effective for fiscal years ending
    on or after December 31, 2009. For more information on the
    comparability of our reserves as a result of the new SEC rules,
    see “Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 2.
    Properties.”



 


    
    (b) 
    
    
    Our Standardized Measure at December 31, 2009 was
    $1,922.0 million.
    PV-10 is a
    Non-GAAP financial measure and is derived from the Standardized
    Measure which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial
    measure.
    PV-10 is a
    computation of the Standardized Measure on a pre-tax basis.
    PV-10 is
    equal to the Standardized Measure at the applicable date, before
    deducting future income taxes, discounted at 10 percent. We
    believe that the presentation of the
    PV-10 is
    relevant and useful to investors because it presents the 







    
    3



Table of Contents







    
    
    



    

    
    
    discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated
    net proved reserves prior to taking into account future
    corporate income taxes, and it is a useful measure for
    evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and
    natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the
    measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value
    of our reserves to other companies. We use this measure when
    assessing the potential return on investment related to our oil
    and natural gas properties.
    PV-10,
    however, is not a substitute for the Standardized Measure. Our
    PV-10
    measure and the Standardized Measure do not purport to present
    the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves. See
    “Item 1. Business — Non-GAAP Financial
    Measures and Reconciliations.”



 


    
    (c) 
    
    
    Of the 3,695 gross identified drilling locations, 1,726
    locations were associated with proved reserves.




 



    Core
    operating areas


 


    New Mexico Permian.  This area
    represents our most significant concentration of assets and, at
    December 31, 2009, we had estimated proved reserves in this
    area of 128.6 MMBoe, or 60.8 percent of our total net
    proved reserves and 66.0 percent of our
    PV-10.


 


    Within this area we target two distinct producing areas, which
    we refer to as the shelf properties and the basinal properties.
    The shelf properties generally produce from the Yeso,
    San Andres and Grayburg formations, with producing depths
    ranging from approximately 900 feet to 7,500 feet. The
    basinal properties generally produce from the Strawn, Atoka,
    Morrow, Delaware and Bone Springs formations, with producing
    depths generally ranging from 5,000 feet to
    15,000 feet.


 


    During the year ended December 31, 2009, we commenced
    drilling or participated in the drilling of 205 (188.8 net)
    wells in this area, of which 180 (169.3 net) wells were
    completed as producers and 25 (19.5 net) wells were in various
    stages of drilling and completion at December 31, 2009.
    During 2009, we continued our (i) development of the
    Blinebry interval of the Yeso formation, the top of which is
    located approximately 400 feet below the top of the Paddock
    interval of the Yeso formation, (ii) evaluation of drilling
    on 10 acre spacing in the Blinebry interval and
    (iii) evaluation of the use of larger fracture stimulation
    procedures in the completion of certain wells.


 


    At December 31, 2009, we had 150,214 gross (69,931
    net) acres in this area. At December 31, 2009, on our
    properties in this area, we had identified 1,592 drilling
    locations, with proved undeveloped reserves attributed to 676 of
    such locations. Of these drilling locations, we identified 915
    locations intended to evaluate both the Blinebry and the Paddock
    intervals, while 15 locations are intended to target only the
    Blinebry interval and 188 locations are intended to target only
    the Paddock interval.


 


    Texas Permian.  At December 31,
    2009, our estimated proved reserves of 77.2 MMBoe in this
    area accounted for 36.5 percent of our total net proved
    reserves and 31.0 percent of our
    PV-10.


 


    Our primary objective in the Texas Permian area is the Wolfberry
    in the Midland Basin. “Wolfberry” is the term applied
    to the combined production from the Spraberry and Wolfcamp
    horizons, which are typically encountered at depths of 7,500 to
    10,500 feet. These formations are comprised of a sequence
    of basinal, interbedded shales and carbonates. We also operate
    and develop properties on the Central Basin Platform targeting
    the Grayburg, San Andres and Clearfork formations, which
    are shallower, and are typically encountered at depths of 4,500
    to 7,500 feet. The reservoirs in these formations are
    largely carbonates, limestones and dolomites.


 


    At December 31, 2009, we had 287,961 gross (91,135
    net) acres in this area. In addition, at December 31, 2009,
    we had identified 1,795 drilling locations, with proved
    undeveloped reserves attributed to 966 of such locations.


 


    During 2009, we commenced drilling or participated in the
    drilling of 120 (34.9 net) wells in this area, of which 84 (23.3
    net) wells were completed as producers, 2 (0.4 net) wells were
    unsuccessful and 34 (11.2 net) wells were in various stages of
    drilling and completion at December 31, 2009.


 



    Emerging
    plays


 


    We are actively involved in drilling or participating in
    drilling activities in two emerging plays, in which we had
    5.3 MMBoe of proved reserves at December 31, 2009.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    Lower Abo horizontal play.  The Lower
    Abo horizontal play is an oil play along the northwestern rim of
    the Delaware Basin in Lea, Eddy and Chaves Counties, New Mexico.
    This play is found at vertical depths ranging from
    6,500 feet to 10,000 feet and is being developed
    utilizing horizontal drilling techniques and advanced fracture
    and stimulation technology.


 


    At December 31, 2009, we held interests in
    59,179 gross (48,401 net) acres in this play. During 2009,
    we commenced participation in the drilling of 8 (2.9 net) wells
    in this play, of which 6 (1.9 net) wells were completed as
    producers and 2 (1.0 net) wells were in various stages of
    drilling and completion at December 31, 2009. At
    December 31, 2009, we had 2.7 MMBoe of proved reserves
    in this play.


 


    Bakken/Three Forks play.  Our acreage in
    the Bakken/Three Forks play is in the Williston Basin in
    North Dakota, primarily in Mountrail and McKenzie Counties.
    These Mississippian/Devonian age horizons consist of siltstones
    encased within and below a highly organic oil-rich shale
    package. These horizons are found at vertical depths ranging
    from 9,000 feet to 11,000 feet and are being developed
    utilizing horizontal drilling techniques and advanced fracture
    and stimulation technology.


 


    At December 31, 2009, we held interests in
    42,210 gross (11,193 net) acres in this play. During 2009,
    we commenced participation in the drilling of 25 (3.7 net) wells
    in this play which 18 (2.8 net) wells were producing and 7 (0.8
    net) wells were in various stages of drilling and completion at
    December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, we had
    2.6 MMBoe of proved reserves in this play.



 



    Drilling
    Activities


 


    The following table sets forth information with respect to wells
    drilled and completed during the periods indicated. The
    information should not be considered indicative of future
    performance, nor should a correlation be assumed between the
    number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found
    or economic value.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Years Ended December 31,




 


 


    2009


 


    2008


 


    2007




 


 


    Gross


 


    Net


 


    Gross


 


    Net


 


    Gross


 


    Net



 






    Development wells



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Productive



 


 


    211.0


 


 


 


    139.2


 


 


 


    118.0


 


 


 


    76.8


 


 


 


    60.0


 


 


 


    38.5


 





    Dry



 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 





    Exploratory wells



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Productive



 


 


    125.0


 


 


 


    83.3


 


 


 


    93.0


 


 


 


    63.2


 


 


 


    55.0


 


 


 


    48.0


 





    Dry



 


 


    3.0


 


 


 


    0.6


 


 


 


    1.0


 


 


 


    1.0


 


 


 


    2.0


 


 


 


    1.2


 





    Total wells



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Productive



 


 


    336.0


 


 


 


    222.5


 


 


 


    211.0


 


 


 


    140.0


 


 


 


    115.0


 


 


 


    86.5


 





    Dry



 


 


    3.0


 


 


 


    0.6


 


 


 


    1.0


 


 


 


    1.0


 


 


 


    2.0


 


 


 


    1.2


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    339.0


 


 


 


    223.1


 


 


 


    212.0


 


 


 


    141.0


 


 


 


    117.0


 


 


 


    87.7


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    The following table sets forth information about our wells for
    which drilling was in progress or are pending completion at
    December 31, 2009, which are not included in the above
    table:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Drilling In-progress


 


    Pending Completion




 


 


    Gross


 


    Net


 


    Gross


 


    Net



 






    Development wells



 


 


    11.0


 


 


 


    5.3


 


 


 


    35.0


 


 


 


    19.8


 





    Exploratory wells



 


 


    7.0


 


 


 


    2.5


 


 


 


    11.0


 


 


 


    2.9


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    18.0


 


 


 


    7.8


 


 


 


    46.0


 


 


 


    22.7


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 










    
    5



Table of Contents





 



    Our
    Production, Prices and Expenses


 


    The following table sets forth summary information concerning
    our production results, average sales prices and operating costs
    and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
    and 2007. See additional information on individual fields that
    are 15 percent or more of proved reserves at
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Results of Operations.” The actual historical data in this
    table excludes results from the (i) Wolfberry Acquisitions
    and (ii) Henry Properties for periods prior to
    August 1, 2008.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Years Ended December 31,




 


 


    2009


 


    2008


 


    2007



 






    Production and operating data:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Net production volumes:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Oil (MBbl)



 


 


    7,336


 


 


 


    4,586


 


 


 


    3,014


 





    Natural gas (MMcf)



 


 


    21,568


 


 


 


    14,968


 


 


 


    12,064


 





    Total (MBoe)



 


 


    10,931


 


 


 


    7,081


 


 


 


    5,025


 





    Average daily production volumes:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Oil (Bbl)



 


 


    20,099


 


 


 


    12,530


 


 


 


    8,258


 





    Natural gas (Mcf)



 


 


    59,090


 


 


 


    40,896


 


 


 


    33,052


 





    Total (Boe)



 


 


    29,947


 


 


 


    19,346


 


 


 


    13,766


 





    Average prices:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Oil, without derivatives (Bbl)



 


    $


    57.98


 


 


    $


    91.92


 


 


    $


    68.58


 





    Oil, with derivatives (Bbl)(a)



 


    $


    68.18


 


 


    $


    83.55


 


 


    $


    64.90


 





    Natural gas, without derivatives (Mcf)



 


    $


    5.52


 


 


    $


    9.59


 


 


    $


    8.08


 





    Natural gas, with derivatives (Mcf)(a)



 


    $


    6.03


 


 


    $


    9.64


 


 


    $


    8.33


 





    Total, without derivatives (Boe)



 


    $


    49.81


 


 


    $


    79.80


 


 


    $


    60.52


 





    Total, with derivatives (Boe)(a)



 


    $


    57.65


 


 


    $


    74.49


 


 


    $


    58.93


 





    Operating costs and expenses per Boe:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Lease operating expenses and workover costs



 


    $


    5.82


 


 


    $


    6.31


 


 


    $


    5.56


 





    Oil and natural gas taxes



 


    $


    4.07


 


 


    $


    6.57


 


 


    $


    5.24


 





    General and administrative



 


    $


    4.78


 


 


    $


    5.76


 


 


    $


    5.01


 





    Depreciation, depletion and amortization



 


    $


    18.86


 


 


    $


    17.50


 


 


    $


    15.28


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (a) 
    
    
    Includes the effect of (i) commodity derivatives designated
    as hedges and reported in oil and natural gas sales and
    (ii) includes the cash payments/receipts from commodity
    derivatives not designated as hedges and reported in operating
    costs and expenses. The following table reflects the amounts of
    cash payments/receipts from commodity derivatives not designated
    as hedges that were included in computing average prices with 







    
    6



Table of Contents







    
    
    



    

    
    
    derivatives and reconciles to the amount in gain (loss) on
    derivatives not designated as hedges as reported in the
    statements of operations:




 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Years Ended December 31,


 




 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 




 


 


    (In thousands)


 



 






    Oil and natural gas sales:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Cash payments on oil derivatives



 


    $


    —


 


 


    $


    (30,591


    )


 


    $


    (11,091


    )





    Cash receipts from natural gas derivatives



 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    188


 





    Designated natural gas cash flow hedges reclassified from
    accumulated other comprehensive income



 


 


    —


 


 


 


    (696


    )


 


 


    1,103


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total effect on oil and natural gas sales



 


    $


    —


 


 


    $


    (31,287


    )


 


    $


    (9,800


    )




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Gain (loss) on derivatives not designated as hedges:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Cash (payments on) receipts from oil derivatives



 


    $


    74,796


 


 


    $


    (7,780


    )


 


    $


    —


 





    Cash receipts from natural gas derivatives



 


 


    10,955


 


 


 


    1,426


 


 


 


    1,815


 





    Cash payments on interest rate derivatives



 


 


    (3,335


    )


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 





    Unrealized
    mark-to-market
    gain (loss) on commodity and interest rate derivatives



 


 


    (239,273


    )


 


 


    256,224


 


 


 


    (22,089


    )




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Gain (loss) on derivatives not designated as hedges



 


    $


    (156,857


    )


 


    $


    249,870


 


 


    $


    (20,274


    )




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    The presentation of average prices with derivatives is a
    non-GAAP measure as a result of including the cash
    payments/receipts from commodity derivatives that are presented
    in gain (loss) on derivatives not designated as hedges in the
    statements of operations. This presentation of average prices
    with derivatives is a means by which to reflect the actual cash
    performance of our commodity derivatives for the respective
    periods and presents oil and natural gas prices with derivatives
    in a manner consistent with the presentation generally used by
    the investment community.



 



    Productive
    Wells


 


    The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and
    natural gas wells on our properties at December 31, 2009:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Gross Productive Wells


 


    Net Productive Wells




 


 


 


 


    Natural
    


 


 


 


 


 


    Natural
    


 


 




 


 


    Oil


 


    Gas


 


    Total


 


    Oil


 


    Gas


 


    Total



 






    Core Operating Areas:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    New Mexico Permian



 


 


    1,744


 


 


 


    191


 


 


 


    1,935


 


 


 


    1,171.6


 


 


 


    55.4


 


 


 


    1,227.0


 





    Texas Permian



 


 


    1,740


 


 


 


    69


 


 


 


    1,809


 


 


 


    463.7


 


 


 


    10.8


 


 


 


    474.5


 





    Emerging Plays:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Lower Abo



 


 


    20


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    20


 


 


 


    9.2


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    9.2


 





    Bakken/Three Forks



 


 


    40


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    40


 


 


 


    5.2


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    5.2


 





    Other



 


 


    25


 


 


 


    131


 


 


 


    156


 


 


 


    1.2


 


 


 


    5.9


 


 


 


    7.1


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    3,569


 


 


 


    391


 


 


 


    3,960


 


 


 


    1,650.9


 


 


 


    72.1


 


 


 


    1,723.0


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 









 



    Marketing
    Arrangements


 


    General.  We market our crude oil and
    natural gas in accordance with standard energy practices
    utilizing certain of our employees and external consultants, in
    each case in consultation with our products group, asset
    managers and our corporate reservoir engineers. The marketing
    effort is coordinated with our operations group as it relates to
    the planning and preparation of future drilling programs so that
    available markets can be assessed and





    
    7



Table of Contents





    secured. This planning also involves the coordination of
    procuring the physical facilities necessary to connect new
    producing wells as efficiently as possible upon their completion.


 


    Oil.  We do not refine or process the
    crude oil we produce. A significant portion of our crude oil is
    connected directly to pipelines via gathering facilities in the
    respective field locations throughout Southeast New Mexico,
    while a significant portion of our production in West Texas is
    transported by truck. The oil is then delivered either to hub
    facilities located in Midland, Texas or Cushing, Oklahoma or to
    third party refineries located in Southeast New Mexico and the
    Panhandle and Gulf Coast area of Texas, with the majority of our
    crude oil going to a refinery in Southeast New Mexico. This oil
    is also transported to the hub facilities and refineries
    mentioned above. We sell the majority of the oil we produce
    under contracts using market-based pricing. This price is then
    adjusted for differentials based upon delivery location and oil
    quality.


 


    Natural Gas.  We consider all natural
    gas gathering and delivery infrastructure in the areas of our
    production and evaluate market options to obtain the best price
    reasonably available under the circumstances. We sell the
    majority of our natural gas under individually negotiated
    natural gas purchase contracts using market-based pricing. The
    majority of our natural gas is subject to term agreements that
    extend at least three years from the date of the subject
    contract.


 


    The majority of the natural gas we sell is casinghead gas sold
    at the lease under a percentage of proceeds processing contract.
    The purchaser gathers our casinghead natural gas in the field
    where produced and transports it via pipeline to a natural gas
    processing plant where the liquid products are extracted. The
    remaining natural gas product is residue gas, or dry gas, which
    is gathered at the wellhead and delivered into the
    purchaser’s residue or mainline transportation system.
    Under our percentage of proceeds contract, we receive a
    percentage of the value for the extracted liquids and the
    residue gas. Each of the liquid products has its own individual
    market and is therefore priced separately.


 


    In many cases, the natural gas gathering and transportation is
    performed by a third party gathering company which transports
    the production from the production location to the
    purchaser’s mainline. The majority of our dry gas and
    residue gas is subject to term agreements that extend at least
    three years from the date of the subject contract.



 



    Our
    Principal Customers


 


    We sell our oil and natural gas production principally to
    marketers and other purchasers that have access to pipeline
    facilities. In areas where there is no practical access to
    pipelines, oil is transported to storage facilities by trucks
    owned or otherwise arranged by the marketers or purchasers. Our
    marketing of oil and natural gas can be affected by factors
    beyond our control, the effects of which cannot be accurately
    predicted.


 


    For 2009, revenues from oil and natural gas sales to Navajo
    Refining Company, L.P. and DCP Midstream, LP accounted for
    approximately 38 percent and approximately 13 percent,
    respectively, of our total operating revenues. While the loss of
    either of these purchasers may result in a temporary
    interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our production,
    we believe that the loss of either of these purchasers would not
    have a material adverse effect on our operations, as there are
    alternative purchasers in our producing regions.



 



    Competition


 


    The oil and natural gas industry in the regions in which we
    operate is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition
    from numerous parties, ranging generally from small independent
    producers to major integrated companies. We primarily encounter
    significant competition in acquiring properties, contracting for
    drilling and workover equipment and securing trained personnel.
    Many of these competitors have financial and technical resources
    and staffs substantially larger than ours. As a result, our
    competitors may be able to pay more for desirable properties, or
    to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties
    or prospects than our financial or personnel resources will
    permit.


 


    In addition to the competition for drilling and workover
    equipment we are also affected by the availability of related
    equipment. The oil and natural gas industry periodically
    experiences shortages of drilling and workover rigs, equipment,
    pipe, materials and personnel, which can delay developmental
    drilling, workover and exploration





    
    8



Table of Contents





    activities and cause significant price increases. The past
    shortages of personnel made it difficult to attract and retain
    personnel with experience in the oil and natural gas industry
    and caused us to increase our general and administrative budget.
    We are unable to predict the timing or duration of any such
    shortages.


 


    Competition is also strong for attractive oil and natural gas
    producing properties, undeveloped leases and drilling rights.
    Although we regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities and
    submit bids as part of our growth strategy, we do not have any
    current agreements, understandings or arrangements with respect
    to any material acquisition.



 



    Applicable
    Laws and Regulations


 



    Regulation
    of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry


 


    Regulation of transportation of
    oil.  Sales of crude oil, condensate and
    natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at
    negotiated prices. Nevertheless, Congress could reenact price
    controls in the future.


 


    Our sales of crude oil are affected by the availability, terms
    and cost of transportation. The transportation of oil in common
    carrier pipelines is also subject to rate regulation. The
    Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the “FERC”)
    regulates interstate oil pipeline transportation rates under the
    Interstate Commerce Act. In general, interstate oil pipeline
    rates must be cost-based, although settlement rates agreed to by
    all shippers are permitted and market-based rates may be
    permitted in certain circumstances. Effective January 1,
    1995, the FERC implemented regulations establishing an indexing
    system that permits a pipeline, subject to limited challenges,
    to annually increase or decrease its transportation rates due to
    inflationary changes in costs using a FERC approved index. On
    March 21, 2006, FERC issued a decision setting the index
    for the period July 1, 2006 through July 2011 at the
    Producer Price Index for Finished Goods (the “PPI-FG”)
    plus 1.3 percent. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline
    regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny
    given to intrastate oil pipeline rates, varies from state to
    state. Insofar as effective interstate and intrastate rates are
    equally applicable to all comparable shippers, we believe that
    the regulation of oil transportation rates will not affect our
    operations in any way that is of material difference from those
    of our competitors.


 


    Further, interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines
    must provide service on a non-discriminatory basis at posted
    tariff rates. When oil pipelines operate at full capacity,
    access is governed by prorationing provisions set forth in the
    pipelines’ published tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that
    access to oil pipeline transportation services generally will be
    available to us to the same extent as to our competitors.


 


    Regulation of transportation and sale of natural
    gas.  Historically, the transportation and
    sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce have been
    regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the
    “Natural Gas Act”), the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978
    (the “Natural Gas Policy Act”) and regulations issued
    under those acts by the FERC. In the past, the federal
    government has regulated the prices at which natural gas could
    be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently
    be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact
    price controls in the future, and market participants are
    prohibited from engaging in market manipulation. Deregulation of
    wellhead natural gas sales began with the enactment of the
    Natural Gas Policy Act. In 1989, Congress enacted the Natural
    Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act which removed all Natural Gas Act and
    Natural Gas Policy Act price and non-price controls affecting
    wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993.


 


    The FERC regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates
    and service conditions, which affects the marketing of natural
    gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for
    sales of our natural gas. Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to
    make natural gas transportation more accessible to natural gas
    buyers and sellers on an open and non-discriminatory basis. The
    FERC has stated that open access policies are necessary to
    improve the competitive structure of the interstate natural gas
    pipeline industry and to create a regulatory framework that will
    put natural gas sellers into more direct contractual relations
    with natural gas buyers by, among other things, unbundling the
    sale of natural gas from the sale of transportation and storage
    services. Beginning in 1992, the FERC issued Order No. 636
    and a series of related orders to implement its open access
    policies. As a result of the Order No. 636 program, the
    marketing and pricing of natural gas have been significantly
    altered. The interstate pipelines’ traditional role as
    wholesalers of natural gas has been eliminated and replaced by a
    structure under which pipelines provide transportation and
    storage service on an open access basis to others who buy and
    sell natural gas. Although





    
    9



Table of Contents





    these orders do not directly regulate natural gas producers,
    they are intended to foster increased competition within all
    phases of the natural gas industry.


 


    In 2000, the FERC issued Order No. 637 and subsequent
    orders, which imposed a number of additional reforms designed to
    enhance competition in natural gas markets. Among other things,
    Order No. 637 effected changes in FERC regulations relating
    to scheduling procedures, capacity segmentation, penalties,
    rights of first refusal and information reporting. Most
    pipelines’ tariff filings to implement the requirements of
    Order No. 637 have been accepted by the FERC and placed
    into effect.


 


    In August, 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005
    (the “EPAct 2005”). Among other matters, EPAct 2005
    amends the Natural Gas Act to make it unlawful for “any
    entity”, including otherwise non-jurisdictional producers
    such as us, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or
    contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural
    gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject
    to regulation by the FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed
    by the FERC. The FERC’s rules implementing this provision
    make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of
    natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, or the
    purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the
    jurisdiction of the FERC, for any entity, directly or
    indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to
    defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit
    to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made
    not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that
    operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also
    gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for
    violations of the Natural Gas Act or Natural Gas Policy Act up
    to $1 million per day per violation. The new
    anti-manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate
    only to intrastate or other non-jurisdictional sales, gathering
    or production, but does apply to activities of otherwise
    non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are
    conducted “in connection with” natural gas sales,
    purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which
    now includes the annual reporting requirements under Order 704,
    described below. EPAct 2005 therefore reflects a significant
    expansion of the FERC’s enforcement authority. We do not
    anticipate we will be affected any differently than other
    producers of natural gas.


 


    In December 2007, the FERC issued a rule (“Order 704”)
    requiring that any market participant, including a producer such
    as Concho, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of
    natural gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus during
    a calendar year to annually report, starting May 1, 2009,
    such sales and purchases to the FERC. These rules are intended
    to increase the transparency of the wholesale natural gas
    markets and to assist the FERC in monitoring such markets and in
    detecting market manipulation. We do not anticipate that we will
    be affected by these rules any differently than other producers
    of natural gas.


 


    We cannot accurately predict whether the FERC’s actions
    will achieve the goal of increasing competition in markets in
    which our natural gas is sold. Additional proposals and
    proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are
    pending before the FERC and the courts. The natural gas industry
    historically has been very heavily regulated. Therefore, we
    cannot provide any assurance that the less stringent regulatory
    approach recently established by the FERC will continue.
    However, we do not believe that any action taken will affect us
    in a way that materially differs from the way it affects other
    natural gas producers.


 


    Gathering service, which occurs upstream of jurisdictional
    transmission services, is regulated by the states onshore and in
    state waters. Although its policy is still in flux, the FERC has
    reclassified certain jurisdictional transmission facilities as
    non-jurisdictional gathering facilities, which has the tendency
    to increase our costs of getting natural gas to point of sale
    locations.


 


    Intrastate natural gas transportation is also subject to
    regulation by state regulatory agencies. The basis for
    intrastate regulation of natural gas transportation and the
    degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate
    natural gas pipeline rates and services varies from state to
    state. During the 2007 legislative session, the Texas State
    Legislature passed H.B. 3273 (the “Competition Bill”)
    and H.B. 1920 (the “LUG Bill”). The Competition Bill
    gives the Railroad Commission of Texas the ability to use either
    a
    cost-of-service
    method or a market-based method for setting rates for natural
    gas gathering and intrastate transportation pipelines in formal
    rate proceedings. It also gives the Railroad Commission specific
    authority to enforce its statutory duty to prevent
    discrimination in natural gas gathering and transportation, to
    enforce the requirement that parties participate in an informal
    complaint process and to punish purchasers, transporters, and
    gatherers for taking discriminatory actions against shippers and
    sellers. The Competition Bill also provides producers with the
    unilateral option to determine





    
    10



Table of Contents





    whether or not confidentiality provisions are included in a
    contract to which a producer is a party for the sale,
    transportation, or gathering of natural gas. The LUG Bill
    modifies the informal complaint process at the Railroad
    Commission with procedures unique to lost and unaccounted for
    natural gas issues. It extends the types of information that can
    be requested, provides producers with an annual audit right, and
    provides the Railroad Commission with the authority to make
    determinations and issue orders in specific situations. Both the
    Competition Bill and the LUG Bill became effective
    September 1, 2007, and the Railroad Commission rules
    implementing the Railroad Commission’s authority pursuant
    to the bills became effective on April 28, 2008. Insofar as
    such regulation within a particular state will generally affect
    all intrastate natural gas shippers within the state on a
    comparable basis, we believe that the regulation of similarly
    situated intrastate natural gas transportation in any states in
    which we operate and ship natural gas on an intrastate basis
    will not affect our operations in any way that is of material
    difference from those of our competitors. Like the regulation of
    interstate transportation rates, the regulation of intrastate
    transportation rates affects the marketing of natural gas that
    we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of our
    natural gas.


 


    Regulation of production.  The
    production of oil and natural gas is subject to regulation under
    a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders
    and regulations. Federal, state and local statutes and
    regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling
    bonds and reports concerning operations. All of the states in
    which we own and operate properties have regulations governing
    conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization
    or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment
    of maximum allowable rates of production from oil and natural
    gas wells, the regulation of well spacing, and the plugging and
    abandonment of wells. The effect of these regulations is to
    limit the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce from
    our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at
    which we can drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such
    regulations or to have reductions in well spacing. Moreover,
    each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with
    respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and
    natural gas liquids within its jurisdiction. The failure to
    comply with these rules and regulations can result in
    substantial penalties. Our competitors in the oil and natural
    gas industry are subject to the same regulatory requirements and
    restrictions that affect our operations.


 



    Environmental,
    Health and Safety Matters


 


    General.  Our operations are subject to
    stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and
    regulations governing environmental protection as well as the
    discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and
    regulations may, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    require the acquisition of various permits before drilling
    commences;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various
    substances that can be released into the environment in
    connection with oil and natural gas drilling and production, and
    saltwater disposal activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying
    within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and




 



     
        • 

    
    require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and
    ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug
    abandoned wells.





 


    These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of
    oil and natural gas production below the rate that would
    otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and
    natural gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the
    industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally,
    environmental laws and regulations are revised frequently, and
    any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste
    handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and
    natural gas industry could have a significant impact on our
    operating costs.


 


    The following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules
    and regulations to which our business is subject.


 


    Waste handling.  The Resource
    Conservation and Recovery Act (the “RCRA”) and
    comparable state statutes, regulate the generation,
    transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of
    hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the
    federal Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”),
    the individual states administer some or all of the provisions
    of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent
    requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters, and most of the
    other wastes associated with the exploration,





    
    11



Table of Contents





    development, and production of crude oil or natural gas are
    currently regulated under RCRA’s non-hazardous waste
    provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural
    gas exploration and production wastes now classified as
    non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the
    future. Any such change could result in an increase in our costs
    to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    position.


 


    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
    Liability Act.  The Comprehensive
    Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (the
    “CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, imposes
    joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality
    of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be
    responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the
    environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the
    site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or
    arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at
    the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and
    several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous
    substances that have been released into the environment, for
    damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health
    studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring
    landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal
    injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous
    substances released into the environment.


 


    We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that
    have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and
    production for many years. Although we believe that we have
    utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were
    standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances,
    wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the
    properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other
    locations, including off-site locations, where such substances
    have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of our
    properties have been operated by third parties or by previous
    owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous
    substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control.
    These properties and the substances disposed or released on them
    may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws. Under
    such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed
    substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property, or
    perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination.


 


    Water discharges.  The Federal Water
    Pollution Control Act (the “Clean Water Act”) and
    analogous state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls
    with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills
    and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United
    States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is
    prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit
    issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. Federal and
    state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and
    criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or
    other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state
    laws and regulations.


 


    Air emissions.  The federal Clean Air
    Act, and comparable state laws, regulate emissions of various
    air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the
    imposition of other requirements. In addition, the EPA has
    developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations
    governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified
    sources. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose
    administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance
    with air permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Air
    Act and associated state laws and regulations.


 


    Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of
    certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse
    gases” (“GHGs”) and including carbon dioxide and
    methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s
    atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress
    is considering legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs.
    President Obama has expressed support for legislation to
    restrict or regulate emissions of GHGs. In addition, more than
    one-third of the states, either individually or through
    multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun
    implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs,
    primarily through the planned development of emission
    inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs.
    Depending on the particular program, we could be required to
    purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions
    resulting from our operations. This requirement could increase
    our operational and compliance costs and result in reduced
    demand for our products.


 


    Also, on December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental
    Protection Agency (the “EPA”) officially published its
    findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other
    GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment
    because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA,
    contributing to warming of the earth’s





    
    12



Table of Contents





    atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA
    allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation
    of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under
    existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In late
    September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in
    anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a
    reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles that could
    also lead to the imposition of greenhouse gas emission
    limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary
    sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued
    a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions
    from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the
    United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010.
    Although our facilities were not subject to the EPA’s
    greenhouse gas reporting rule adopted in September 2009, the EPA
    has indicated that it is evaluating whether the rule should be
    applied to oil and natural gas production activities, perhaps on
    a field-wide basis. The adoption and implementation of any
    regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting
    emissions of, GHGs from our equipment and operations could
    require us to incur increased costs or could adversely affect
    demand for the oil and natural gas we produce.


 


    Hydraulic fracturing.  The
    U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend
    the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (the “SDWA”), to
    subject hydraulic fracturing operations to regulation under the
    SDWA and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil
    and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process.
    Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and
    chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil
    and natural gas production. Sponsors of bills currently pending
    before the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have
    asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could
    adversely affect drinking water supplies. Proposed legislation
    would require, among other things, the reporting and public
    disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which
    could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic
    fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings against
    producers. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish
    an additional level of regulation and permitting of hydraulic
    fracturing operations at the federal level, which could lead to
    operational delays, increased operating costs and additional
    regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult for us to
    perform hydraulic fracturing, which is an important component of
    well development. Any impairment of our ability to perform
    hydraulic fracturing would have a material adverse effect on our
    ability to produce oil and natural gas from new wells.


 


    Endangered species.  The federal
    Endangered Species Act and analogous state laws regulate
    activities that could have an adverse effect on threatened or
    endangered species. Some of our well drilling operations are
    conducted in areas where protected species are known to exist.
    In these areas, we may be obligated to develop and implement
    plans to avoid potential adverse impacts to protected species,
    and we may be prohibited from conducting drilling operations in
    certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding
    and nesting seasons, when our operations could have an adverse
    effect on the species. It is also possible that a federal or
    state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities
    in certain locations if it is determined that such activities
    may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. The
    presence of a protected species in areas where we perform
    drilling activities could impair our ability to timely complete
    well drilling and development and could adversely affect our
    future production from those areas.


 


    National Environmental Policy Act.  Oil
    and natural gas exploration and production activities on federal
    lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act (the
    “NEPA”). NEPA requires federal agencies, including the
    Department of Interior, to evaluate major agency actions having
    the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the
    course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an
    environmental assessment that assesses the potential direct,
    indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if
    necessary, will prepare a more detailed environmental impact
    statement that may be made available for public review and
    comment. All of our current exploration and production
    activities, as well as proposed exploration and development
    plans, on federal lands require governmental permits that are
    subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the
    potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas
    projects.


 


    OSHA and other laws and regulation.  We
    are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational
    Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”), and comparable state
    statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA
    community
    right-to-know
    regulations under the Title III of CERCLA and similar state
    statutes require that we organize
    and/or
    disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced
    in our operations. We believe that we are in substantial
    compliance with these applicable requirements and with other
    OSHA and comparable requirements.




    
    13



Table of Contents





    We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all
    existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to our
    current operations and that our continued compliance with
    existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on
    our financial condition and results of operations. For instance,
    we did not incur any material capital expenditures for
    remediation or pollution control activities during 2009.
    Additionally, as of the date of this report, we are not aware of
    any environmental issues or claims that will require material
    capital expenditures during 2010. However, we cannot assure you
    that the passage or application of more stringent laws or
    regulations in the future will not have an negative impact on
    our financial position or results of operation.



 



    Our
    Employees


 


    At December 31, 2009, we employed
    284 persons.  Of these, 253 worked at our
    Midland, Texas headquarters, including Texas field operations
    and 31 in our New Mexico field operations. Our future success
    will depend partially on our ability to attract, retain and
    motivate qualified personnel. We are not a party to any
    collective bargaining agreements and have not experienced any
    strikes or work stoppages. We consider our relations with our
    employees to be good. We also utilize the services of
    independent contractors to perform various field and other
    services.



 



    Available
    Information


 


    We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy
    statements and other documents with the SEC under the Exchange
    Act. The public may read and copy any materials that we file
    with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The
    public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
    Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    Also, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy
    and information statements, and other information regarding
    issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC.
    The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at
    http://www.sec.gov.


 


    We also make available free of charge through our website
    (www.conchoresources.com) our annual report, Quarterly Reports
    on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or
    furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as
    soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.



 



    Non-GAAP Financial
    Measures and Reconciliations


 



    PV-10


 


    PV-10 is
    derived from the standardized measure of discounted future net
    cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial
    measure.
    PV-10 is a
    computation of the standardized measure of discounted future net
    cash flows on a pre-tax basis.
    PV-10 is
    equal to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash
    flows at the applicable date, before deducting future income
    taxes, discounted at 10 percent. We believe that the
    presentation of the
    PV-10 is
    relevant and useful to investors because it presents the
    discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated
    net proved reserves prior to taking into account future
    corporate income taxes, and it is a useful measure for
    evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and
    natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the
    measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value
    of our reserves to other companies. We use this measure when
    assessing the potential return on investment related to our oil
    and natural gas properties.
    PV-10,
    however, is not a substitute for the standardized measure of
    discounted future net cash flows. Our
    PV-10
    measure and the standardized measure of discounted future net
    cash flows do not purport to present the fair value of our oil
    and natural gas reserves.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    The following table provides a reconciliation of
    PV-10 to the
    standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Years Ended December 31,


 




 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 






    PV-10



 


    $


    2,764.8


 


 


    $


    1,663.2


 


 


    $


    2,138.5


 





    Present value of future income taxes discounted at 10%



 


 


    (842.8


    )


 


 


    (464.2


    )


 


 


    (706.7


    )




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows



 


    $


    1,922.0


 


 


    $


    1,199.0


 


 


    $


    1,431.8


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 



    EBITDAX


 


    We define EBITDAX as net income (loss), plus
    (1) exploration and abandonments expense,
    (2) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense,
    (3) accretion expense, (4) impairments of long-lived
    assets, (5) non-cash stock-based compensation expense,
    (6) ineffective portion of cash flow hedges and unrealized
    (gain) loss on derivatives not designated as hedges,
    (7) interest expense, (8) bad debt expense and
    (9) federal and state income taxes. EBITDAX is not a
    measure of net income or cash flow as determined by GAAP.


 


    Our EBITDAX measure provides additional information which may be
    used to better understand our operations, and it is also a
    material component of one of the financial covenants under our
    credit facility. EBITDAX is one of several metrics that we use
    as a supplemental financial measurement in the evaluation of our
    business and should not be considered as an alternative to, or
    more meaningful than, net income, as an indicator of our
    operating performance. Certain items excluded from EBITDAX are
    significant components in understanding and assessing a
    company’s financial performance, such as a company’s
    cost of capital and tax structure, as well as the historic cost
    of depreciable and depletable assets. EBITDAX as used by us may
    not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other
    companies. We believe that EBITDAX is a widely followed measure
    of operating performance and is one of many metrics used by our
    management team and by other users of our consolidated financial
    statements, including by lenders pursuant to a covenant in our
    credit facility. For example, EBITDAX can be used to assess our
    operating performance and return on capital in comparison to
    other independent exploration and production companies without
    regard to financial or capital structure, and to assess the
    financial performance of our assets and our company without
    regard to capital structure or historical cost basis. Further,
    under our credit facility, an event of default could arise if we
    were not able to satisfy and remain in compliance with specified
    financial ratios, including the maintenance of a quarterly ratio
    of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX of no greater than 4.0 to
    1.0. Non-compliance with this ratio could trigger an event of
    default under our credit facility.




    
    15



Table of Contents





    The following table provides a reconciliation of net income
    (loss) to EBITDAX:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


 


    Chase Group
    


 




 


 


 


 


 


    Properties
    


 




 


 


    Concho Resources Inc.


 


 


    Year Ended
    


 




 


 


    Years Ended December 31,


 


 


    December 31,(a)


 




 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 


 


    2006


 


 


    2005


 


 


    2005


 




 


 


    (In thousands)


 



 






    Net income (loss)



 


    $


    (9,802


    )


 


    $


    278,702


 


 


    $


    25,360


 


 


    $


    19,668


 


 


    $


    1,954


 


 


    $


    74,351


 





    Exploration and abandonments



 


 


    10,660


 


 


 


    38,468


 


 


 


    29,098


 


 


 


    5,612


 


 


 


    2,666


 


 


 


    —


 





    Depreciation, depletion and amortization



 


 


    206,143


 


 


 


    123,912


 


 


 


    76,779


 


 


 


    60,722


 


 


 


    11,485


 


 


 


    18,646


 





    Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations



 


 


    1,058


 


 


 


    889


 


 


 


    444


 


 


 


    287


 


 


 


    89


 


 


 


    446


 





    Impairments of long-lived assets



 


 


    12,197


 


 


 


    18,417


 


 


 


    7,267


 


 


 


    9,891


 


 


 


    2,295


 


 


 


    194


 





    Non-cash stock-based compensation



 


 


    9,040


 


 


 


    5,223


 


 


 


    3,841


 


 


 


    9,144


 


 


 


    3,252


 


 


 


    —


 





    Bad debt expense



 


 


    (1,035


    )


 


 


    2,905


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 





    Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges



 


 


    —


 


 


 


    (1,336


    )


 


 


    821


 


 


 


    (1,193


    )


 


 


    1,148


 


 


 


    —


 





    Unrealized (gain) loss on derivatives not designated as hedges



 


 


    239,273


 


 


 


    (256,224


    )


 


 


    22,089


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    1,966


 


 


 


    1,062


 





    Interest expense



 


 


    28,292


 


 


 


    29,039


 


 


 


    36,042


 


 


 


    30,567


 


 


 


    3,096


 


 


 


    —


 





    Income tax expense (benefit)



 


 


    (20,732


    )


 


 


    162,085


 


 


 


    16,019


 


 


 


    14,379


 


 


 


    2,039


 


 


 


    —


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    EBITDAX



 


    $


    475,094


 


 


    $


    402,080


 


 


    $


    217,760


 


 


    $


    149,077


 


 


    $


    29,990


 


 


    $


    94,699


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (a) 
    
    
    The acquisition of the Chase Group Properties was substantially
    consummated on February 27, 2006, as a result of the
    combination of assets owned by Chase Oil and certain of its
    affiliates and Concho Equity Holdings Corp., see
    “Item 1. Business — General.”






    
    16



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    You should consider carefully the following risk factors
    together with all of the other information included in this
    report and other reports filed with the SEC, before investing in
    our shares. If any of the following risks were actually to
    occur, our business, financial condition or results of
    operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case,
    the trading price of our shares could decline and you could lose
    all or part of your investment.



 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 



    Oil
    and natural gas prices are volatile. A decline in oil and
    natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial
    position, financial results, cash flow, access to capital and
    ability to grow.


 


    Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations,
    rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas
    properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our
    oil and natural gas production and the prices prevailing from
    time to time for oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices
    historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to
    be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical
    conditions. This price volatility also affects the amount of our
    cash flow we have available for capital expenditures and our
    ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The prices
    for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors
    beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the level of consumer demand for crude oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the domestic and foreign supply of crude oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability,
    and the availability of refining capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and level of imports of foreign crude oil and natural
    gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum
    Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain crude oil price and
    production controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuel sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas
    producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa and South
    America;




 



     
        • 

    
    technological advances affecting energy consumption;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations between product prices at sales points and applicable
    index prices; and




 



     
        • 

    
    worldwide economic conditions.





 


    Furthermore, crude oil and natural gas prices were particularly
    volatile in 2009. For example, the NYMEX oil prices in 2009
    ranged from a high of $81.37 to a low of $33.98 per Bbl and the
    NYMEX natural gas prices in 2009 ranged from a high of $6.07 to
    a low of $2.51 per MMBtu. Further, the NYMEX oil prices and
    NYMEX natural gas prices reached lows of $71.19 per Bbl and
    $4.78 per MMBtu, respectively, during the period from
    January 1, 2010 to February 24, 2010.


 


    Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce our
    revenue, but could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas
    that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and reserves. If the oil and natural gas industry
    experiences significant price declines, we may, among other
    things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing
    capacity, repay current or future indebtedness or obtain
    additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can
    adversely affect the value of our common stock.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    Our
    estimates of proved reserves have been prepared under new SEC
    rules which went into effect for fiscal years ending on or after
    December 31, 2009, which may make comparisons to prior
    periods difficult and could limit our ability to book additional
    proved undeveloped reserves in the future.


 


    This report presents estimates of our proved reserves as of
    December 31, 2009, which have been prepared and presented
    under new SEC rules. These new rules are effective for fiscal
    years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and require SEC
    reporting companies to prepare their reserves estimates using
    revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on a
    12-month
    unweighted average of the
    first-day-of-the-month
    pricing. The previous rules required that reserve estimates be
    calculated using
    last-day-of-the-year
    pricing. The pricing that was used for estimates of our reserves
    as of December 31, 2009 was based on an unweighted average
    twelve month West Texas Intermediate posted price of $57.65 per
    Bbl for oil and a Henry Hub spot natural gas price of $3.87 per
    MMBtu for natural gas. As a result of this change in pricing
    methodology, direct comparisons of our previously-reported
    reserves amounts may be more difficult.


 


    Another impact of the new SEC rules is a general requirement
    that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves
    may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be
    drilled within five years of the date of booking. This new rule
    has limited and may continue to limit our potential to book
    additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling
    program, particularly as we develop our significant acreage in
    West Texas and Southeast New Mexico. Moreover, we may be
    required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do
    not drill on those reserves within the required five-year
    timeframe.


 


    The SEC has not reviewed our or any reporting company’s
    reserve estimates under the new rules and has released only
    limited interpretive guidance regarding reporting of reserve
    estimates under the new rules and may not issue further
    interpretive guidance on the new rules. Accordingly, while the
    estimates of our proved reserves and related
    PV-10 and
    Standardized Measure at December 31, 2009 included in this
    report have been prepared based on what we and our independent
    reserve engineers believe to be reasonable interpretations of
    the new SEC rules, those estimates could differ materially from
    any estimates we might prepare applying more specific SEC
    interpretive guidance.


 



    Drilling
    for and producing crude oil and natural gas are high-risk
    activities with many uncertainties that could cause our expenses
    to increase or our cash flows and production volumes to
    decrease.


 


    Our future financial condition and results of operations will
    depend on the success of our exploration, development and
    production activities. Our crude oil and natural gas exploration
    and production activities are subject to numerous risks,
    including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially
    viable crude oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to
    purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or
    properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data
    obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production
    data and engineering studies, the results of which are often
    inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of
    drilling, completing, equipping and operating wells is often
    uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted
    expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project
    uneconomical or less economic than forecasted. Further, many
    factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory
    and contractual requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in geological formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified
    personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    reductions in crude oil and natural gas prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    surface access restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    loss of title or other title related issues;







    
    18



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    crude oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas gathering,
    transportation and processing availability restrictions or
    limitations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations in the market for crude oil and natural gas.





 



    Estimates
    of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise.
    The actual quantities of our proved reserves and our future net
    cash flows may prove to be lower than estimated.


 


    Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved
    reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. Our estimates of
    proved reserves and related future net cash flows are based on
    various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate.


 


    Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating
    accumulations of oil
    and/or
    natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner.
    Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas
    reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of
    variable factors and assumptions, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    historical production from the area compared with production
    from other producing areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the quality, quantity and interpretation of available relevant
    data;




 



     
        • 

    
    the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the quality, quantity and interpretation of available relevant
    data;




 



     
        • 

    
    assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and




 



     
        • 

    
    assumptions concerning future operating costs; severance, ad
    valorem and excise taxes; development costs; and workover and
    remedial costs.





 


    Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective,
    each of the following items, or other items not identified
    below, may differ materially from those assumed in estimating
    reserves:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately
    recovered;




 



     
        • 

    
    the production and operating costs incurred;




 



     
        • 

    
    the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and




 



     
        • 

    
    future commodity prices.





 


    Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different
    estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. Our
    actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to
    reserves will likely be different from estimates and the
    differences may be material.


 


    Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a
    common basis for comparing oil and natural gas companies subject
    to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Our non-GAAP financial
    measure,
    PV-10, is a
    similar reporting convention that we have disclosed in this
    report. Both measures require the use of operating and
    development costs prevailing as of the date of computation.
    Consequently, they will not reflect the prices ordinarily
    received or that will be received for oil and natural gas
    production because of varying market conditions, nor may it
    reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or
    develop the oil and natural gas properties. Accordingly,
    estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be
    materially different from the future net cash flows that are
    ultimately received. In addition, the ten percent discount
    factor, which is required by the rules and regulations of the
    SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows
    for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount
    factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and
    risks associated with our company or the oil and natural gas
    industry in general. Therefore, Standardized Measure or
    PV-10
    included or incorporated by reference in this report should not
    be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value
    of our proved reserves. Any adjustments to the estimates of
    proved reserves or decreases in the price of oil or natural gas
    may decrease the value of our common stock.




    
    19



Table of Contents





    If average oil prices were $1.00 per Bbl lower than the average
    price we used, our
    PV-10 at
    December 31, 2009, would have decreased from
    $2,764.8 million to $2,701.5 million. If average
    natural gas prices were $0.10 per Mcf lower than the average
    price we used, our
    PV-10 at
    December 31, 2009, would have decreased from
    $2,764.8 million to $2,742.0 million. Any adjustments
    to the estimates of proved reserves or decreases in the price of
    oil or natural gas may decrease the value of our common stock.


 



    Our
    business requires substantial capital expenditures. We may be
    unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory
    terms or at all, which could lead to a decline in our crude oil
    and natural gas reserves.


 


    The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make
    and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures
    for the acquisition, exploration and development of crude oil
    and natural gas reserves. At December 31, 2009, total debt
    outstanding under our credit facility was $550.0 million,
    and $405.9 million was available to be borrowed. Assuming
    the proceeds of $219.2 million from our February 2010
    equity offering had been received on December 31, 2009 and
    were applied to reduce borrowings under our credit facility, our
    availability under our credit facility would have been
    $625 million. Expenditures for exploration and development
    of oil and natural gas properties are the primary use of our
    capital resources. We incurred approximately $680 million
    in acquisition, exploration and development activities during
    the year ended December 31, 2009 on our properties
    ($280.5 million related to acquisitions), and under our
    2010 capital budget, we intend to invest approximately
    $625 million for exploration and development activities and
    acquisition of leasehold acreage, dependent on our cash flow and
    our commodity price outlook.


 


    We intend to finance our future capital expenditures, other than
    significant acquisitions, primarily through cash flow from
    operations and through borrowings under our credit facility;
    however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase
    our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or
    equity securities. The issuance of additional equity securities
    could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock.
    Additional borrowings under our credit facility or the issuance
    of additional debt securities will require that a greater
    portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment
    of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our
    ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital
    expenditures and acquisitions. In addition, our credit facility
    imposes certain limitations on our ability to incur additional
    indebtedness other than indebtedness under our credit facility.
    If we desire to issue additional debt securities other than as
    expressly permitted under our credit facility, we will be
    required to seek the consent of the lenders in accordance with
    the requirements of the facility, which consent may be withheld
    by the lenders under our credit facility in their discretion. If
    we incur certain additional indebtedness, our borrowing base
    under our credit facility will be reduced. Additional financing
    also may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In the
    event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may
    curtail drilling, development and other activities or be forced
    to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis.


 


    Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject
    to a number of variables, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our proved reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of crude oil and natural gas we are able to produce
    from existing wells;




 



     
        • 

    
    the prices at which our crude oil and natural gas are sold;




 



     
        • 

    
    global credit and securities markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    the ability and willingness of lenders and investors to provide
    capital and the cost of the capital; and




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.





 


    If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility
    decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices,
    operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending
    requirements or regulations, or for any other reason, we may
    have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain
    our operations at current levels. As a result, we may require
    additional capital to fund our operations, and we may not be
    able to obtain debt or equity financing to satisfy our capital
    requirements. If cash generated from operations or cash
    available under our credit facility is not sufficient to meet
    our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional
    financing could result in a curtailment of





    
    20



Table of Contents





    our operations relating to the development of our prospects,
    which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas
    reserves, and could adversely affect our production, revenues
    and results of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and
    regulations that could adversely affect the cost, timing, manner
    or feasibility of conducting our operations.


 


    Our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production,
    and related saltwater disposal operations are subject to complex
    and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our
    operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we
    must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and
    certificates from various federal, state, local and governmental
    authorities. We may incur substantial costs and experience
    delays in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws
    and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may
    increase or our operations may be otherwise adversely affected
    if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted,
    or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our
    operations. These and other costs could have a material adverse
    effect on our production, revenues and results of operations.


 


    Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and
    regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental
    authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the
    exploration for, and the production of, oil and natural gas.
    Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted
    and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our
    production, revenues and results of operations.


 



    Our
    operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with
    respect to environmental and operational safety
    matters.


 


    We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a
    result of environmental, health and safety requirements
    applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration, development
    and production, and related saltwater disposal activities. These
    delays, costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of
    federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to
    protection of the environment, health and safety, including
    regulations and enforcement policies that have tended to become
    increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws
    and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative,
    civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site
    restoration costs and liens, and, in some instances, issuance of
    orders or injunctions limiting or requiring discontinuation of
    certain operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons
    or property, including natural resources, may result from the
    environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations.


 


    Strict as well as joint and several liability may be imposed
    under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become
    liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own
    actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the
    time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or
    enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose
    unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance
    costs. If we were not able to recover the resulting costs
    through insurance or increased revenues, our production,
    revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.


 



    We may
    not be able to obtain funding at all, or obtain funding on
    acceptable terms, to meet our future capital needs because of
    uncertainty in the credit and capital markets.


 


    Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and
    will likely continue to be, uncertain and volatile. These
    issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial
    services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the ongoing
    weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to
    make, it difficult to obtain funding.


 


    In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity
    capital markets has increased while the ability to obtain funds
    from those markets may, depending on the timing, prove
    difficult. Also, as a result of concern about the stability of
    financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties
    specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit
    markets has increased as many lenders and institutional
    investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending
    standards and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide
    funding to borrowers




    
    21



Table of Contents





    In addition, our ability to obtain capital under our credit
    facility may be impaired because of the downturn in the
    financial market, including the issues surrounding the solvency
    of certain institutional lenders and the failure of several
    banks. Specifically, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding
    under our credit facility because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet
    their funding obligations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the borrowing base under our credit facility is redetermined at
    least twice a year and may decrease due to a decrease in crude
    oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in
    reserves, lending requirements or regulations, or for other
    reasons; or




 



     
        • 

    
    if any lender is unable or unwilling to fund their respective
    portion of any advance under our credit facility, then the other
    lenders thereunder are not required to provide additional
    funding to make up the portion of the advance that the
    defaulting lender refused to fund.





 


    Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be
    available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable
    terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available
    only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our
    development plan, enhance our existing business, complete
    acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business
    opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which
    could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues
    and results of operations.


 



    Our
    lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may
    materially impact our operations.


 


    At December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    $550.0 million of outstanding debt under our credit
    facility, and our borrowing base was $955.9 million. The
    borrowing base limitation under our credit facility is
    semi-annually redetermined based upon a number of factors,
    including commodity prices and reserve levels. In addition to
    such semi-annual redeterminations, between redeterminations we
    and, if requested by
    662/3 percent
    of our lenders, our lenders, may each request one special
    redetermination. Upon a redetermination, our borrowing base
    could be substantially reduced, and in the event the amount
    outstanding under our credit facility at any time exceeds the
    borrowing base at such time, we may be required to repay a
    portion of our outstanding borrowings. If we incur certain
    additional indebtedness, our borrowing base under our credit
    facility will be reduced. We expect to utilize cash flow from
    operations, bank borrowings, equity financings and asset sales
    to fund our acquisition, exploration and development activities.
    A reduction in our borrowing base could limit our activities. In
    addition, we may significantly alter our capitalization in order
    to make future acquisitions or develop our properties. These
    changes in capitalization may significantly increase our level
    of debt. If we incur additional debt for these or other
    purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify. A
    higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default
    on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt
    obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our
    future performance which is affected by general economic
    conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of
    which are beyond our control.


 



    Our
    indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more
    vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.


 


    We now have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of
    indebtedness, and the terms of our credit facility require us to
    pay higher interest rate margins as we utilize a larger
    percentage of our available borrowing base. At December 31,
    2009, we had total consolidated indebtedness of approximately
    $845.8 million comprised of amounts outstanding under our
    credit facility and our 8.625% senior notes due 2017.
    Assuming our debt outstanding under our credit facility of
    $550.0 million at December 31, 2009 was held constant,
    if interest rates had been higher or lower by 1 percent per
    annum, our annual interest expense would have increased or
    decreased by approximately $5.5 million. At
    December 31, 2009, our total borrowing capacity under our
    credit facility was $955.9 million, of which
    $405.9 million was available. Assuming the proceeds of
    $219.2 million from our February 2010 equity offering had
    been received on December 31, 2009 and were applied to
    reduce borrowings under our credit facility, our availability
    under our credit facility would have been $625 million.


 


    Our current and future indebtedness could have important
    consequences to you. For example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to make investments and obtain additional
    financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
    acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;







    
    22



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
    our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of
    these funds to make principal and interest payments on our
    indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to borrow funds that may be necessary to
    operate or expand our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have
    less debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    hinder our ability to adjust to rapidly changing economic and
    industry conditions.





 


    Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations may
    depend in significant part on the extent to which we can
    successfully implement our business strategy. We may not be able
    to implement or realize the benefits of our business strategy.
    In addition, if we fail to comply with the covenants or other
    terms of any agreements governing our debt, our lenders may have
    the right to accelerate the maturity of that debt and foreclose
    upon any collateral securing that debt.


 


    Our producing properties are located primarily in the
    Permian Basin of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas, making us
    vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major
    geographic area. In addition, we have a large amount of proved
    reserves attributable to a small number of producing horizons
    within this area.


 


    Our producing properties in our core operating areas are
    geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin of Southeast
    New Mexico and West Texas. At December 31, 2009,
    approximately 99 percent of our proved reserves were
    attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of
    this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the
    impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or
    interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by
    governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity
    constraints, market limitations, or interruption of the
    processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or natural gas
    liquids.


 


    In addition to the geographic concentration of our producing
    properties described above, at December 31, 2009,
    approximately (i) 49.6 percent of our proved reserves
    were attributable to the Yeso formation, which includes both the
    Paddock and Blinebry intervals, underlying our oil and natural
    gas properties located in Southeast New Mexico; and
    (ii) 29.4 percent of our proved reserves were
    attributable to the Wolfberry play in West Texas. This
    concentration of assets within a small number of producing
    horizons exposes us to additional risks, such as changes in
    field-wide rules and regulations that could cause us to
    permanently or temporarily shut-in all of our wells within a
    field.


 



    Future
    price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value
    of our proved oil and natural gas properties, which could
    adversely affect our results of operations.


 


    Declines in commodity prices may result in having to make
    substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved
    reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of production or
    economic factors change, accounting rules may require us to
    write-down, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value
    of our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We
    are required to perform impairment tests on proved assets
    whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of
    our proved oil and natural gas properties. To the extent such
    tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or
    estimated future cash flows of our oil and natural gas
    properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and
    therefore require a write-down. We may incur impairment charges
    in the future, which could materially adversely affect our
    results of operations in the period incurred.


 



    We
    periodically evaluate our unproved oil and natural gas
    properties for impairment, and could be required to recognize
    noncash charges to earnings of future periods.


 


    At December 31, 2009, we carried unproved property costs of
    $218.6 million. GAAP requires periodic evaluation of these
    costs on a
    project-by-project
    basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. These
    evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration
    activities, commodity price circumstances, planned future sales
    or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and
    permits appurtenant to such projects. If the quantity of
    potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not
    sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project,
    we will recognize noncash charges to earnings of future periods.




    
    23



Table of Contents






    Part
    of our strategy involves exploratory drilling, including
    drilling in new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling
    results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our
    undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are
    unsuccessful.


 


    The results of our exploratory drilling in new or emerging plays
    are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are
    developed and have established production. Since new or emerging
    plays and new formations have limited or no production history,
    we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to
    help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost
    of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may
    be higher than initially expected, and the value of our
    undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are
    unsuccessful.


 



    Our
    commodity price risk management program may cause us to forego
    additional future profits or result in our making cash payments
    to our counterparties.


 


    To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and
    natural gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter
    into additional commodity price risk management arrangements for
    a portion of our oil and natural gas production. The agreements
    that we have entered into generally have the effect of providing
    us with a fixed price for a portion of our expected future oil
    and natural gas production over a fixed period of time.
    Commodity price risk management arrangements expose us to the
    risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from
    increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances,
    including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the counterparty to a commodity price risk management contract
    may default on its contractual obligations to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    there may be a change in the expected differential between the
    underlying price in a commodity price risk management agreement
    and actual prices received; or




 



     
        • 

    
    market prices may exceed the prices which we are contracted to
    receive, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments
    to our counterparties.





 


    Our commodity price risk management activities could have the
    effect of reducing our revenues, net income and the value of our
    common stock. At December 31, 2009, the net unrealized loss
    on our commodity price risk management contracts was
    approximately $64.3 million. An average increase in the
    commodity price of $10.00 per barrel of oil and $1.00 per MMBtu
    for natural gas from the commodity prices at December 31,
    2009, would have increased the net unrealized loss on our
    commodity price risk management contracts, as reflected on our
    balance sheet at December 31, 2009, by $85.0 million.
    We may continue to incur significant unrealized gains or losses
    in the future from our commodity price risk management
    activities to the extent market prices increase or decrease and
    our derivatives contracts remain in place.


 



    We
    have entered into interest rate derivative instruments that may
    subject us to loss of income.


 


    We have entered into derivative instruments designed to limit
    the interest rate risk under our current credit facility or any
    credit facilities we may enter into in the future. These
    derivative instruments can involve the exchange of a portion of
    our floating rate interest obligations for fixed rate interest
    obligations or a cap on our exposure to floating interest rates
    to reduce our exposure to the volatility of interest rates.
    While we may enter into instruments limiting our exposure to
    higher market interest rates, we cannot assure you that any
    interest rate derivative instruments we implement will be
    effective; and furthermore, even if effective these instruments
    may not offer complete protection from the risk of higher
    interest rates.


 


    All interest rate derivative instruments involve certain
    additional risks, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the counterparty may default on its contractual obligations to
    us;




 



     
        • 

    
    there may be issues with regard to the legal enforceability of
    such instruments;




 



     
        • 

    
    the early repayment of one of our interest rate derivative
    instruments could lead to prepayment penalties; or




 



     
        • 

    
    unanticipated and significant changes in interest rates may
    cause a significant loss of basis in the instrument and a change
    in current period expense.







    
    24



Table of Contents




 



    If we
    enter into derivative instruments that require us to post cash
    collateral, our cash otherwise available for use in our
    operations would be reduced, which could limit our ability to
    make future capital expenditures.


 


    The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting
    of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into
    derivative instruments that require cash collateral and
    commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to
    us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would
    be reduced, which could limit our ability to make future capital
    expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness. Future
    collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our
    counterparties and highly volatile oil and natural gas prices
    and interest rates.


 



    Nonperformance
    by a counterparty to our derivative instruments or commodity
    purchase agreements could adversely affect our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    We routinely enter into derivative instruments with a number of
    counterparties to reduce our exposure to changes in oil and
    natural gas prices and interest rates. A number of financial
    institutions similar to those that serve as counterparties to
    our derivative instruments have been adversely affected by the
    global credit crisis. If a counterparty to one of these
    derivative instruments cannot or will not perform under the
    contract, we will not realize the benefit of the derivative,
    which could adversely affect our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    Additionally, substantially all of our accounts receivable
    result from oil and natural gas sales to third parties in the
    energy industry. Recent market conditions have resulted in
    downgrades to credit ratings of energy industry merchants and
    financial institutions, affecting the liquidity of several of
    our purchasers and counterparties. We extend credit to our
    purchasers based on each party’s creditworthiness, but we
    generally have not required our purchasers to provide collateral
    support for their obligations to us and therefore have no
    assurances that our counterparties will have the ability to pay
    us. If a purchaser of our oil and natural gas production fails
    to meet its obligations under our commodity purchase agreement,
    our financial condition and results of operations could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Our
    identified inventory of drilling locations and recompletion
    opportunities are scheduled out over several years, making them
    susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the
    occurrence or timing of their drilling.


 


    We have identified and scheduled the drilling of certain of our
    drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year
    development activities on our existing acreage. At
    December 31, 2009, we had identified 3,695 gross
    drilling locations with proved undeveloped reserves attributable
    to 1,726 of such locations. These identified locations represent
    a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill
    and develop these locations depends on a number of
    uncertainties, including (i) our ability to timely drill
    wells on lands subject to complex development terms and
    circumstances; (ii) the availability of capital, equipment,
    services and personnel; (iii) seasonal conditions;
    (iv) regulatory and third party approvals; (v) oil and
    natural gas prices; and (vi) drilling and recompletion
    costs and results. Because of these uncertainties, we may never
    drill the numerous potential locations we have identified or
    produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential
    locations. As such, our actual development activities may
    materially differ from those presently identified, which could
    adversely affect our production, revenues and results of
    operations.


 



    Approximately
    51 percent of our total estimated net proved reserves at
    December 31, 2009, were undeveloped, and those reserves may
    not ultimately be developed.


 


    At December 31, 2009, approximately 51 percent of our
    total estimated net proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery
    of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital
    expenditures and successful drilling. Our reserve data assumes
    that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these
    operations successfully. These assumptions, however, may not
    prove correct. Our reserve report at December 31, 2009
    includes estimates of total future development costs over the
    next five years associated with our proved undeveloped reserves
    of approximately $1.2 billion. If we choose not to spend
    the capital to develop these reserves, or if we are not
    otherwise able to successfully develop these reserves, we will
    be required to write-off these reserves. In addition, under the
    SEC’s recently updated reserve rules, because proved
    undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to





    
    25



Table of Contents





    wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of
    booking, we may be required to write off any proved undeveloped
    reserves that are not developed within this five year timeframe.
    Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to
    borrow money and could reduce the value of our securities.


 



    Unless
    we replace our crude oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves
    and production will decline, which would adversely affect our
    cash flow, our ability to raise capital and the value of our
    common stock.


 


    Unless we conduct successful development and exploration
    activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our
    proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced.
    Producing crude oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are
    characterized by declining production rates that vary depending
    upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future
    crude oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore
    our cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on
    our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current
    reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional
    recoverable reserves. The value of our common stock and our
    ability to raise capital will be adversely impacted if we are
    not able to replace our reserves that are depleted by
    production. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or
    acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current
    and future production.


 



    We may
    be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully
    integrate acquired companies, and any inability to do so may
    disrupt our business and hinder our ability to
    grow.


 


    One aspect of our business strategy calls for acquisitions of
    businesses or assets that complement or expand our current
    business. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition
    opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive candidates, we
    may not be able to complete the acquisition of them or do so on
    commercially acceptable terms.


 


    In addition, our credit facility and the indenture governing our
    8.625% senior notes due 2017 impose certain limitations on
    our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions.
    Our credit facility and the indenture governing our
    8.625% senior notes due 2017 also limit our ability to
    incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our
    ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses or assets. If we
    desire to engage in an acquisition that is otherwise prohibited
    by our credit facility or the indenture governing our
    8.625% senior notes due 2017, we will be required to seek
    the consent of our lenders or the holders of the senior notes in
    accordance with the requirements of the facility or the
    indenture, which consent may be withheld by the lenders under
    our credit facility or such holders of senior notes in their
    sole discretion. Furthermore, given the current situation in the
    credit markets, many lenders are reluctant to provide consents
    in any circumstances, including to allow accretive transactions.


 


    If we acquire another business or assets, we could have
    difficulty integrating its operations, systems, management and
    other personnel and technology with our own. These difficulties
    could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and
    employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our
    results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional debt
    or issue additional equity to pay for any future acquisitions,
    subject to the limitations described above.


 



    Our
    acquisitions may prove to be worth less than what we paid
    because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and
    could expose us to potentially significant
    liabilities.


 


    We obtained the majority of our current reserve base through
    acquisitions of producing properties and undeveloped acreage. We
    expect that acquisitions will continue to contribute to our
    future growth. In connection these and potential future
    acquisitions, we are often only able to perform limited due
    diligence.


 


    Successful acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties
    require an assessment of a number of factors, including
    estimates of recoverable reserves, the timing of recovering
    reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas
    prices, operating costs and potential environmental, regulatory
    and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and we
    cannot make these assessments with a high degree of accuracy. In
    connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the
    acquired properties. However, such a review will not reveal all
    existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not
    permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to
    fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not
    inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not
    always discover structural, subsurface and environmental
    problems that may exist or arise.




    
    26



Table of Contents





    There may be threatened, contemplated, asserted or other claims
    against the acquired assets related to environmental, title,
    regulatory, tax, contract, litigation or other matters of which
    we are unaware, which could materially and adversely affect our
    production, revenues and results of operations. We are sometimes
    able to obtain contractual indemnification for preclosing
    liabilities, including environmental liabilities, but we
    generally acquire interests in properties on an “as
    is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of
    representations and warranties. In addition, even when we are
    able to obtain such indemnification from the sellers, these
    indemnification obligations usually expire over time and expose
    us to potential unindemnified liabilities, which could
    materially adversely affect our production, revenues and results
    of operations.


 



    Competition
    in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more
    difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural
    gas and secure trained personnel.


 


    We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring
    properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained
    personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial,
    technical and personnel resources substantially greater than
    ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which
    we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for
    productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory
    prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number
    of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel
    resources permit. In addition, those companies may be able to
    offer better compensation packages to attract and retain
    qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to
    attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the
    past few years due to competition and may increase substantially
    in the future. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and
    to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our
    ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to
    consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment.
    Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for
    investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We may not be
    able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring
    prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing
    hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and
    raising additional capital. Our failure to acquire properties,
    market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel and
    adequately compensate personnel could have a material adverse
    effect on our production, revenues and results of operations.


 



    Shortages
    of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could
    delay our drilling program and increase the prices we pay to
    obtain such equipment, services and personnel.


 


    The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to
    drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists,
    geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and
    natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in
    correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic
    shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling
    and workover rigs, pipe and other oilfield equipment as demand
    for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of
    wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant
    increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher
    oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result
    in increased prices for drilling and workover rigs, crews and
    associated supplies, equipment and services. It is beyond our
    control and ability to predict whether these conditions will
    exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration
    will be. These types of shortages or price increases could
    significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and
    operating results, or restrict our ability to drill the wells
    and conduct the operations which we currently have planned and
    budgeted or which we may plan in the future.


 



    Our
    exploration and development drilling may not result in
    commercially productive reserves.


 


    Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the
    risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be
    encountered. New wells that we drill may not be productive, or
    we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such
    wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not
    allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil
    or natural gas is present or may be produced economically.
    Drilling for oil and natural gas often involves unprofitable
    results, not only from dry holes but also from wells that are
    productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return
    a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling,
    operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and
    operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can
    adversely affect





    
    27



Table of Contents





    the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may
    be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    title problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or lost circulation in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    compliance with environmental and other governmental or
    contractual requirements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or
    workover rigs, equipment and services.





 



    We may
    incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability
    claims as a result of our crude oil and natural gas operations.
    In addition, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be
    inadequate to protect us against, these risks.


 


    We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities
    arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially
    and adversely affect our business, financial condition or
    results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and
    production activities are subject to all of the operating risks
    associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas,
    including the possibility of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of crude
    oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other
    pollution into the environment, including groundwater
    contamination;




 



     
        • 

    
    abnormally pressured or structured formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and
    service tools and casing collapse;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;




 



     
        • 

    
    personal injuries and death; and




 



     
        • 

    
    natural disasters.





 


    Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct
    operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    injury or loss of life;




 



     
        • 

    
    damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and
    equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    pollution and other environmental damage;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory investigations and penalties;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspension of our operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    repair and remediation costs.





 


    We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost
    of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks
    presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks
    generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event
    that is not covered or not fully covered by insurance could have
    a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and
    results of operations.




    
    28



Table of Contents






    Market
    conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to
    oil and natural gas markets or delay our
    production.


 


    Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and
    natural gas processing or transportation arrangements may hinder
    our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our
    production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and
    natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including
    the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas, the proximity
    of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities, competition
    for such facilities and the inability of such facilities to
    gather, transport or process our production due to shutdowns or
    curtailments arising from mechanical, operational or weather
    related matters, including hurricanes and other severe weather
    conditions. Our ability to market our production depends in
    substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering
    and transportation systems, pipelines and processing facilities
    owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such
    services on acceptable terms could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. We may be required to shut in or otherwise curtail
    production from wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or
    unavailability of oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas
    pipeline or gathering, transportation or processing capacity. If
    that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue
    from those wells until suitable arrangements were made to market
    our production.


 



    Certain
    federal income tax deductions currently available with respect
    to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be
    eliminated as a result of future legislation.


 


    President Obama’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2010 Budget includes
    proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make
    significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including the
    elimination of certain key United States federal income tax
    incentives currently available to oil and natural gas
    exploration and production companies. These changes include, but
    are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage
    depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties,
    (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible
    drilling costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for
    certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an
    extension of the amortization period for certain geological and
    geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes
    will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become
    effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these
    proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal
    income tax laws could eliminate or otherwise limit certain tax
    deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and
    natural gas exploration and development, and any such change
    could negatively impact our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    The
    adoption of climate change legislation by Congress could result
    in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and
    natural gas we produce.


 


    On June 26, 2009, the United States House of
    Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean
    Energy and Security Act of 2009,” also known as the
    “Waxman-Markey
    cap-and-trade
    legislation” (the “ACESA”). The purpose of ACESA
    is to control and reduce emissions of GHGs in the United States.
    GHGs are certain gases, including carbon dioxide and methane,
    that may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s
    atmosphere and other climatic changes. ACESA would establish an
    economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and
    would require an overall reduction in GHG emissions of
    17 percent (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over
    80 percent by 2050. Under ACESA, most sources of GHG
    emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission
    “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions
    of GHGs. The number of emission allowances issued each year
    would decline as necessary to meet ACESA’s overall emission
    reduction goals. As the number of GHG emission allowances
    declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected
    to escalate significantly. The net effect of ACESA would be to
    impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels
    such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas.


 


    On November 5, 2009, the United States Senate Committee on
    Environment and Public Works approved the “Clean Energy
    Jobs and American Power Act of 2009” for controlling and
    reducing emissions of GHGs in the United States. This bill
    differs in certain areas from ACESA. If the Senate adopts GHG
    legislation that is different from ACESA, the Senate legislation
    would need to be reconciled with ACESA and both chambers would
    be required to approve identical legislation before it could
    become law. President Obama has indicated that he is in support
    of the adoption of legislation to control and reduce emissions
    of GHGs through an emission allowance permitting system that
    results in fewer allowances being issued each year but that
    allows parties to buy, sell and





    
    29



Table of Contents





    trade allowances as needed to fulfill their GHG emission
    obligations. Although it is not possible at this time to predict
    whether or when the Senate may approve any climate change
    legislation or how any bill approved by the Senate would be
    reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be
    adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs could require us
    to incur increased operating costs, and could have an adverse
    effect on demand for the oil and natural gas we produce.


 



    The
    adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an
    adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our
    business.


 


    Congress is currently considering legislation to impose
    restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives,
    which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging
    transactions. ACESA contains provisions that would prohibit
    private energy commodity derivative and hedging transactions.
    ACESA would expand the power of the Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission, or CFTC, to regulate derivative transactions related
    to energy commodities, including oil and natural gas, and to
    mandate clearance of such derivative contracts through
    registered derivative clearing organizations. Under ACESA, the
    CFTC’s expanded authority over energy derivatives would
    terminate upon the adoption of general legislation covering
    derivative regulatory reform. The CFTC is considering whether to
    set limits on trading and positions in commodities with finite
    supply, particularly energy commodities, such as crude oil,
    natural gas and other energy products. The CFTC also is
    evaluating whether position limits should be applied
    consistently across all markets and participants. Separately,
    the House of Representatives adopted financial regulatory reform
    legislation on December 11, 2009, that among other things
    would impose comprehensive regulation on the over-the-counter
    (“OTC”) derivatives marketplace. This legislation
    would subject swap dealers and “major swap
    participants” to substantial supervision and regulation,
    including capital standards, margin requirements, business
    conduct standards, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
    It also would require central clearing for transactions entered
    into between swap dealers or major swap participants, and would
    provide the CFTC with authority to impose position limits in the
    OTC derivatives markets. A major swap participant generally
    would be someone other than a dealer who maintains a
    “substantial” net position in outstanding swaps,
    excluding swaps used for commercial hedging or for reducing or
    mitigating commercial risk, or whose positions create
    substantial net counterparty exposure that could have serious
    adverse effects on the financial stability of the US banking
    system or financial markets. Although it is not possible at this
    time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives
    legislation or how any climate change bill approved by the
    Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations
    that may be adopted that subject us to additional capital or
    margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions
    on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse
    effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our
    business or on the cost of our hedging activity.


 



    Federal
    and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to
    hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and
    additional operating restrictions or delays.


 


    Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the
    federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of
    chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the
    hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing is an
    important and commonly used process in the completion of
    unconventional natural gas wells in shale formations. This
    process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals
    under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas
    production. Sponsors of two companion bills, which are currently
    pending in the Energy and Commerce Committee and the
    Environmental and Public Works Committee of the House of
    Representatives and Senate, respectively, have asserted that
    chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect
    drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require
    the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the
    fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties
    opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal
    proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in
    the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In
    addition, this legislation, if adopted, could establish an
    additional level of regulation at the federal level that could
    lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and
    could result in additional regulatory burdens. The adoption of
    any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations
    imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the
    hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to
    complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase our
    costs of compliance and doing business.




    
    30



Table of Contents






    The
    loss of our chief executive officer or other key personnel could
    negatively impact our ability to execute our business
    strategy.


 


    We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable
    future, on the services of our chief executive officer, Timothy
    A. Leach, and other officers and key employees who have
    extensive experience and expertise in evaluating and analyzing
    producing oil and natural gas properties and drilling prospects,
    maximizing production from oil and natural gas properties,
    marketing oil and natural gas production, and developing and
    executing acquisition, financing and hedging strategies. Our
    ability to hire and retain our officers and key employees is
    important to our continued success and growth. The unexpected
    loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could
    negatively impact our ability to execute our business strategy.


 



    Because
    we do not control the development of certain of the properties
    in which we own interests, but do not operate, we may not be
    able to achieve any production from these properties in a timely
    manner.


 


    At December 31, 2009, approximately 3.5 percent of our
    proved reserves were attributable to properties for which we
    were not the operator. As a result, the success and timing of
    drilling and development activities on such nonoperated
    properties depend upon a number of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing and amount of capital expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    the operators’ expertise and financial resources;




 



     
        • 

    
    the approval of other participants in such properties; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the selection and application of suitable technology.





 


    If drilling and development activities are not conducted on
    these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may
    be unable to increase our production or offset normal production
    declines or we will be required to write-off the reserves
    attributable thereto, which may adversely affect our production,
    revenues and results of operations. Any such write-offs of our
    reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could
    reduce the value of our securities


 



    Uncertainties
    associated with enhanced recovery methods may result in us not
    realizing an acceptable return on our investments in such
    projects.


 


    We inject water into formations on some of our properties to
    increase the production of oil and natural gas. We may in the
    future expand these efforts to more of our properties or employ
    other enhanced recovery methods in our operations. The
    additional production and reserves, if any, attributable to the
    use of enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to
    predict. If our enhanced recovery methods do not allow for the
    extraction of oil and natural gas in a manner or to the extent
    that we anticipate, we may not realize an acceptable return on
    our investments in such projects. In addition, if proposed
    legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic
    fracturing become law, the cost of some of these enhanced
    recovery methods could increase substantially.


 



    A
    terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business by
    decreasing our revenues and increasing our costs.


 


    Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed
    conflict involving the United States may adversely affect the
    United States and global economies and could prevent us from
    meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these
    events occur or escalate, the resulting political instability
    and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and
    natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for
    our services and causing a reduction in our revenue. Oil and
    natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of
    terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely
    impacted if significant infrastructure or facilities used for
    the production, transportation, processing or marketing of oil
    and natural gas production are destroyed or damaged. Costs for
    insurance and other security may increase as a result of these
    threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult
    to obtain, if available at all.




    
    31



Table of Contents





 



    Risks
    Relating to Our Common Stock


 



    Our
    restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law
    contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or
    merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of
    our common stock.


 


    Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board
    of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder
    approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred
    stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire
    us. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of
    incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more
    difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if
    the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the organization of our board of directors as a classified
    board, which allows no more than approximately one-third of our
    directors to be elected each year;




 



     
        • 

    
    stockholders cannot remove directors from our board of directors
    except for cause and then only by the holders of not less than
    662/3 percent
    of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    the prohibition of stockholder action by written
    consent; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special
    meetings and establish advance notice provisions for stockholder
    proposals and nominations for elections to the board of
    directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.





 



    Because
    we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors
    must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their
    investment in us.


 


    We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common
    stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain
    all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our
    business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the
    discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among
    other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital
    requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual
    restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other
    considerations that our board of directors deems relevant.
    Covenants contained in our credit facility and the indenture
    governing our 8.625% senior notes due 2017 restrict the
    payment of dividends. Investors must rely on sales of their
    common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as
    the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors
    seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.


 



    The
    availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the
    market price of our common stock.


 


    In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for
    acquisitions. We may also acquire interests in other companies
    by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our
    common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into, or
    exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our
    common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership
    interest in our company, reduce our earnings per share and have
    an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.


 


    In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock
    in the public market, or the perception that these sales may
    occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This
    could also impair our ability to raise additional capital
    through the sale of our securities.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B