Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    You should consider carefully the following risk factors
    together with all of the other information included in this
    report and other reports filed with the SEC, before investing in
    our shares. If any of the following risks were actually to
    occur, our business, financial condition or results of
    operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case,
    the trading price of our shares could decline and you could lose
    all or part of your investment.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 



    Crude
    oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A decline in crude oil
    and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial
    position, financial results, cash flow, access to capital and
    ability to grow.


 


    Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations,
    rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and gas
    properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our
    crude oil and natural gas production and the prices prevailing
    from time to time for crude oil and natural gas. Crude oil and
    natural gas prices historically have been volatile and are
    likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially
    given current geopolitical conditions. This price volatility
    also affects the amount of our cash flow we have available for
    capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise
    additional capital. The prices for crude oil and natural gas are
    subject to a variety of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the level of consumer demand for crude oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the domestic and foreign supply of crude oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability,
    and the availability of refining capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and level of imports of foreign crude oil and natural
    gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum
    Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain crude oil price and
    production controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuel sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political conditions or hostilities in oil and gas producing
    regions, including the Middle East, Africa and South America;




 



     
        • 

    
    technological advances affecting energy consumption; and




 



     
        • 

    
    worldwide economic conditions.





 


    Furthermore, crude oil and natural gas prices were particularly
    volatile in 2008. For example, the NYMEX crude oil prices in
    2008 ranged from a high of $145.29 to a low of $33.87 per Bbl,
    and the NYMEX natural gas prices in 2008 ranged from a high of
    $13.58 to a low of $4.35 per MMBtu. Further demonstrating the
    volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, the NYMEX crude
    oil prices and NYMEX natural gas prices reached lows of $33.98
    per Bbl and $4.08 per MMBtu, respectively, during the period
    from January 1, 2009 to February 19, 2009.


 


    Further declines in crude oil and natural gas prices would not
    only reduce our revenue, but could further reduce the amount of
    crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and,
    as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and reserves. If the
    oil and gas industry continues to experience significant price
    declines, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or
    increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future
    indebtedness or obtain additional capital on attractive terms,
    all of which can adversely affect the value of our common stock.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    Drilling
    for and producing crude oil and natural gas are high-risk
    activities with many uncertainties that could cause our expenses
    to increase or our cash flows and production volumes to
    decrease.


 


    Our future financial condition and results of operations will
    depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration,
    development and production activities. Our crude oil and natural
    gas exploration and production activities are subject to
    numerous risks, including the risk that drilling will not result
    in commercially viable crude oil or natural gas production. Our
    decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit
    prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of
    data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses,
    production data and engineering studies, the results of which
    are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations.
    Our cost of drilling, completing, equipping and operating wells
    is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in
    budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a
    particular project uneconomical or less economic than
    forecasted. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel
    drilling, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory
    and contractual requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in geological formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified
    personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    reductions in crude oil and natural gas prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    surface access restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    loss of title or other title related issues;




 



     
        • 

    
    crude oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas gathering,
    transportation and processing availability restrictions or
    limitations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations in the market for crude oil and natural gas.





 



    Estimates
    of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise.
    The actual quantities of our proved reserves and our future net
    cash flows may prove to be lower than estimated.


 


    Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved
    reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. Our estimates of
    proved reserves and related future net cash flows are based on
    various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate.


 


    Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating
    accumulations of crude oil
    and/or
    natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner.
    Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas
    reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of
    variable factors and assumptions, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    historical production from the area compared with production
    from other producing areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the quality, quantity and interpretation of available relevant
    data;




 



     
        • 

    
    the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the quality, quantity and interpretation of available relevant
    data;




 



     
        • 

    
    the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and




 



     
        • 

    
    assumptions concerning future operating costs; severance, ad
    valorem and excise taxes; development costs; and workover and
    remedial costs.






    
    18



Table of Contents



 


    Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective,
    each of the following items, or other items not identified
    below, may differ materially from those assumed in estimating
    reserves:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately
    recovered;




 



     
        • 

    
    the production and operating costs incurred;




 



     
        • 

    
    the amount and timing of future development
    expenditures; and




 



     
        • 

    
    future commodity prices.





 


    Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different
    estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. Our
    actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to
    reserves will likely be different from estimates and the
    differences may be material.


 


    As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash
    flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of
    the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs
    may be materially higher or lower. For example, the estimated
    discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves at
    December 31, 2008 were calculated using the West Texas
    Intermediate posted crude oil price of $41.00 per Bbl and the
    NYMEX natural gas price of $5.71 per MMBtu, adjusted for
    location and quality by field, while the actual future net cash
    flows also will be affected by other factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the amount and timing of actual production;




 



     
        • 

    
    levels of future capital spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil and
    gas; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations or taxation.





 


    Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a
    common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the
    rules and regulations of the SEC. It requires the use of
    commodity prices, as well as operating and development costs,
    prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may
    not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be
    received for crude oil and natural gas production because of
    seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions,
    nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to
    produce or develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly,
    estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be
    materially different from the future net cash flows that are
    ultimately received. In addition, the ten percent discount
    factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating
    discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not
    be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates
    in effect from time to time and risks associated with our
    company or the oil and gas industry in general. Therefore, the
    estimates of discounted future net cash flows or Standardized
    Measure included herein should not be construed as accurate
    estimates of the current market value of our proved reserves. If
    oil prices were $1.00 per Bbl lower than the price we used, our
    PV-10 at
    December 31, 2008, would have decreased from
    $1,663 million to $1,622 million. If natural gas
    prices were $0.10 per Mcf lower than the price we used, our
    PV-10 at
    December 31, 2008, would have decreased from
    $1,663 million to $1,646 million. Any adjustments to
    the estimates of proved reserves or decreases in the price of
    oil or natural gas may decrease the value of our common stock.


 



    Our
    business requires substantial capital expenditures. We may be
    unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory
    terms or at all, which could lead to a decline in our crude oil
    and natural gas reserves.


 


    The oil and gas industry is capital intensive. We make and
    expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for
    the acquisition, exploration and development of crude oil and
    natural gas reserves. At December 31, 2008, total debt
    outstanding under our credit facility was $630.0 million,
    and $329.7 million was available to be borrowed.
    Expenditures for exploration and development of oil and gas
    properties are the primary use of our capital resources. We
    invested approximately $339.0 million in exploration and
    development activities in 2008, and anticipate we could invest
    up to approximately $500 million in 2009 for exploration
    and development activities, dependent on our cash flow, on our
    properties under our original capital budget.



    
    19



Table of Contents




    We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily
    through cash flow from operations and through borrowings under
    our credit facility; however, our financing needs may require us
    to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through
    the issuance of debt or equity securities. The issuance of
    additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the
    value of our outstanding common stock. Additional borrowings
    under our credit facility or the issuance of additional debt
    will require that a greater portion of our cash flow from
    operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on
    our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund
    working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. In
    addition, our credit facility imposes certain limitations on our
    ability to incur additional indebtedness other than indebtedness
    under our credit facility. If we desire to issue additional debt
    securities other than as expressly permitted under our credit
    facility, we will be required to seek the consent of the lenders
    in accordance with the requirements of the facility, which
    consent may be withheld by the lenders under our credit facility
    in their discretion. Additional financing also may not be
    available on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional
    capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail drilling,
    development and other activities or be forced to sell some of
    our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis.


 


    Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject
    to a number of variables, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our proved reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of crude oil and natural gas we are able to produce
    from existing wells;




 



     
        • 

    
    the prices at which our crude oil and natural gas are
    sold; and




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.





 


    If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility
    decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices,
    operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending
    requirements or regulations, or for any other reason, we may
    have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain
    our operations at current levels. As a result, we may require
    additional capital to fund our operations, and we may not be
    able to obtain debt or equity financing to satisfy our capital
    requirements. If cash generated from operations or cash
    available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient
    to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain
    additional financing could result in a curtailment of our
    operations relating to development of our prospects, which in
    turn could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas
    reserves, and could adversely affect our production, revenues
    and results of operations.


 



    We may
    not be able to obtain funding at all, or obtain funding on
    acceptable terms, to meet our future capital needs because of
    the deterioration of the credit and capital
    markets.


 


    Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and
    will likely continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and
    equity capital markets have become uncertain. These issues,
    along with significant write-offs in the financial services
    sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak
    economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make,
    it difficult to obtain funding.


 


    In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity
    capital markets has increased substantially while the
    availability of funds from those markets has diminished
    significantly. Also, as a result of concern about the stability
    of financial markets generally and the solvency of
    counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from
    the credit markets has increased as many lenders and
    institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted
    tighter lending standards and reduced and, in some cases, ceased
    to provide funding to borrowers.


 


    In addition, our ability to obtain capital under our credit
    facility may be impaired because of the recent downturn in the
    financial market, including the issues surrounding the solvency
    of certain institutional lenders and the recent failure of
    several banks. Specifically, we may be unable to obtain adequate
    funding under our credit facility because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet
    their funding obligations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the borrowing base under our credit facility is redetermined at
    least twice a year and may decrease due to a decrease in crude
    oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in
    reserves, lending requirements or regulations, or for other
    reasons; or






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    if any lender is unable or unwilling to fund their respective
    portion of any advance under our credit facility, then the other
    lenders thereunder are not required to provide additional
    funding to make up the portion of the advance that the
    defaulting lender refused to fund.





 


    Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be
    available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable
    terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available
    only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our
    development plan, enhance our existing business, complete
    acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business
    opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which
    could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues
    and results of operations.


 



    Our
    lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may
    materially impact our operations.


 


    At December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    $630 million of outstanding debt under our credit facility,
    and our borrowing base was $960 million. The borrowing base
    limitation under our credit facility is semi-annually
    redetermined based upon a number of factors, including commodity
    prices and reserve levels. In addition to such semi-annual
    redeterminations, our lenders may request one additional
    redetermination during any twelve-month period. Upon a
    redetermination, our borrowing base could be substantially
    reduced, and in the event the amount outstanding under our
    credit facility at any time exceeds the borrowing base at such
    time, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding
    borrowings. We utilize cash flow from operations, bank
    borrowings and equity financings to fund our acquisition,
    exploration and development activities. A reduction in our
    borrowing base could limit our activities. In addition, we may
    significantly alter our capitalization in order to make future
    acquisitions or develop our properties. These changes in
    capitalization may significantly increase our level of debt. If
    we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the
    related risks that we now face could intensify. A higher level
    of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt
    obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to
    reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance which
    is affected by general economic conditions and financial,
    business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.


 



    Our
    producing properties are located in the Permian Basin of
    Southeastern New Mexico and West Texas, making us vulnerable to
    risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. In
    addition, we have a large amount of proved reserves attributable
    to a small number of producing horizons within this
    area.


 


    Our producing properties in our core operating areas are
    geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin of Southeastern
    New Mexico and West Texas. At December 31, 2008,
    97.4 percent of our
    PV-10 was
    attributable to properties located in our core operating areas.
    As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately
    exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors,
    delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area
    caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation
    capacity constraints, market limitations, or interruption of the
    processing or transportation of crude oil, natural gas or
    natural gas liquids.


 


    In addition to the geographic concentration of our producing
    properties described above, at December 31, 2008,
    approximately (i) 52.0 percent of our proved reserves
    were attributable to the Yeso formation, which includes both the
    Paddock and Blinebry intervals, underlying our oil and gas
    properties located in Southeastern New Mexico; and
    (ii) 15.1 percent of our proved reserves were
    attributable to the Wolfberry play in West Texas. This
    concentration of assets within a small number of producing
    horizons exposes us to additional risks, such as changes in
    field-wide rules and regulations that could cause us to
    permanently or temporarily shut-in all of our wells within a
    field.


 



    Future
    price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value
    of our proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely
    affect our results of operations.


 


    Declines in commodity prices may result in having to make
    substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved
    reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of production or
    economic factors change, accounting rules may require us to
    write-down, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value
    of our oil and gas properties for impairments. We are required
    to perform impairment tests on proved assets whenever events or
    changes in circumstances warrant a review of our proved oil and
    gas properties. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of



    
    21



Table of Contents




    the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our
    oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be
    recoverable and therefore require a write-down. We may incur
    impairment charges in the future, which could materially
    adversely affect our results of operations in the period
    incurred.


 



    Part
    of our strategy involves exploratory drilling, including
    drilling in new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling
    results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our
    undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are
    unsuccessful.


 


    The results of our exploratory drilling in new or emerging areas
    are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are
    developed and have established production. Since new or emerging
    plays and new formations have limited or no production history,
    we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to
    help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost
    of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may
    be higher than initially expected, and the value of our
    undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are
    unsuccessful.


 



    Our
    commodity price risk management program may cause us to forego
    additional future profits or result in our making cash payments
    to our counterparties.


 


    To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of crude oil and
    natural gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter
    into additional commodity price risk management arrangements for
    a portion of our crude oil and natural gas production. The
    agreements that we have entered into generally have the effect
    of providing us with a fixed price for a portion of our expected
    future crude oil and natural gas production over a fixed period
    of time. Commodity price risk management arrangements expose us
    to the risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to
    benefit from increases in crude oil and natural gas prices in
    some circumstances, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the counterparty to a commodity price risk management contract
    may default on its contractual obligations to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    there may be a change in the expected differential between the
    underlying price in a commodity price risk management agreement
    and actual prices received; or




 



     
        • 

    
    market prices may exceed the prices which we are contracted to
    receive, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments
    to our counterparties.





 


    Our commodity price risk management activities could have the
    effect of reducing our revenues, net income and the value of our
    common stock. At December 31, 2008, the net unrealized gain
    on our commodity price risk management contracts was
    approximately $172.4 million. An average increase in the
    commodity price of $1.00 per barrel of crude oil and $0.10 per
    Mcf for natural gas from the commodity prices at
    December 31, 2008 would have resulted in a decrease in the
    net unrealized gain on our commodity price risk management
    contracts, as reflected on our balance sheet at
    December 31, 2008, of approximately $3.6 million. We
    may continue to incur significant unrealized gains or losses in
    the future from our commodity price risk management activities
    to the extent market prices increase or decrease and our
    derivatives contracts remain in place.


 



    We
    have entered into interest rate derivative instruments that may
    subject us to loss of income.


 


    We have entered into derivative instruments designed to limit
    the interest rate risk under our current credit facility or any
    credit facilities we may enter into in the future. These
    derivative instruments can involve the exchange of a portion of
    our floating rate interest obligations for fixed rate interest
    obligations or a cap on our exposure to floating interest rates
    to reduce our exposure to the volatility of interest rates.
    While we may enter into instruments limiting our exposure to
    higher market interest rates, we cannot assure you that any
    interest rate derivative instruments we implement will be
    effective; and furthermore, even if effective these instruments
    may not offer complete protection from the risk of higher
    interest rates.


 


    All interest rate derivative instruments involve certain
    additional risks, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the counterparty may default on its contractual obligations to
    us;




 



     
        • 

    
    there may be issues with regard to the legal enforceability of
    such instruments;






    
    22



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the early repayment of one of our interest rate derivative
    instruments could lead to prepayment penalties; or




 



     
        • 

    
    unanticipated and significant changes in interest rates may
    cause a significant loss of basis in the instrument and a change
    in current period expense.





 



    If we
    enter into derivative instruments that require us to post cash
    collateral, our cash otherwise available for use in our
    operations would be reduced, which could limit our ability to
    make future capital expenditures.


 


    The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting
    of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into
    derivative instruments that require cash collateral and
    commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to
    us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would
    be reduced, which could limit our ability to make future capital
    expenditures. Future collateral requirements will depend on
    arrangements with our counterparties and highly volatile crude
    oil and natural gas prices and interest rates.


 



    Nonperformance
    by the counterparties to our derivative instruments and
    commodity purchase agreements could adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    We routinely enter into derivative instruments with a number of
    counterparties to reduce our exposure to changes in oil and
    natural gas prices and interest rates. Recently, a number of
    financial institutions similar to those that serve as
    counterparties to our derivative instruments have been adversely
    affected by the global credit crisis. If a counterparty to one
    of these derivative instruments cannot or will not perform under
    the contract, we will not realize the benefit of the derivative,
    which could adversely affect our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    Additionally, substantially all of our accounts receivable
    result from oil and natural gas sales to third parties in the
    energy industry. Recent market conditions have resulted in
    downgrades to credit ratings of energy industry merchants and
    financial institutions, affecting the liquidity of several of
    our purchasers and counterparties. We extend credit to our
    purchasers based on each party’s creditworthiness, but we
    generally have not required our purchasers to provide collateral
    support for their obligations to us and therefore have no
    assurances that our counterparties will have the ability to pay
    us. If a purchaser of our oil and natural gas production fails
    to meet its obligations under our commodity purchase agreement,
    our financial condition and results of operations could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Our
    identified inventory of drilling locations and recompletion
    opportunities are scheduled out over several years, making them
    susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the
    occurrence or timing of their drilling.


 


    We have specifically identified and scheduled the drilling and
    recompletion of our drilling and recompletion opportunities as
    an estimation of our future multi-year development activities on
    our existing acreage. At December 31, 2008, we had
    identified 3,589 drilling locations with proved undeveloped
    reserves attributable to 823 of such locations, and 2,121
    recompletion opportunities with proved undeveloped reserves
    attributed to 540 of such opportunities. These identified
    opportunities represent a significant part of our growth
    strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these opportunities
    depends on a number of uncertainties, including (i) our
    ability to timely drill wells on lands subject to complex
    development terms and circumstances; and (ii) the
    availability of capital, equipment, services and personnel,
    seasonal conditions, regulatory and third party approvals, crude
    oil and natural gas prices, and drilling and recompletion costs
    and results. Because of these uncertainties, we may never drill
    or recomplete the numerous potential opportunities we have
    identified or produce crude oil or natural gas from these or any
    other potential opportunities. As such, our actual development
    activities may materially differ from those presently
    identified, which could adversely affect our production,
    revenues and results of operations.


 



    Approximately
    44.3 percent of our total estimated net proved reserves at
    December 31, 2008, were undeveloped, and those reserves may
    not ultimately be developed.


 


    At December 31, 2008, approximately 44.3 percent of
    our total estimated net proved reserves were undeveloped.
    Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital
    expenditures and successful drilling. Our reserve data assumes
    that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these
    operations successfully. These



    
    23



Table of Contents




    assumptions, however, may not prove correct. If we choose not to
    spend the capital to develop these reserves, or if we are not
    able to successfully develop these reserves, we will be required
    to write-off these reserves. Any such write-offs of our reserves
    could reduce our ability to borrow money and could reduce the
    value of our common stock.


 



    Because
    we do not control the development of the properties in which we
    own interests, but do not operate, we may not be able to achieve
    any production from these properties in a timely
    manner.


 


    At December 31, 2008, approximately 6.7 percent of our
    PV-10 was
    attributable to properties for which we were not the operator.
    As a result, the success and timing of drilling and development
    activities on such nonoperated properties depend upon a number
    of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing and amount of capital expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    the operators’ expertise and financial resources;




 



     
        • 

    
    the approval of other participants in such properties; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the selection of suitable technology.





 


    If drilling and development activities are not conducted on
    these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may
    be unable to increase our production or offset normal production
    declines, which may adversely affect our production, revenues
    and results of operations.


 



    Unless
    we replace our crude oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves
    and production will decline, which would adversely affect our
    cash flow, our ability to raise capital and the value of our
    common stock.


 


    Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and
    exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved
    reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are
    produced. Producing crude oil and natural gas reservoirs
    generally are characterized by declining production rates that
    vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors.
    Our future crude oil and natural gas reserves and production,
    and therefore our cash flow and results of operations, are
    highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and
    exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or
    acquiring additional recoverable reserves. The value of our
    common stock and our ability to raise capital will be adversely
    impacted if we are not able to replace our reserves that are
    depleted by production. We may not be able to develop, exploit,
    find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our
    current and future production.


 



    We may
    be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully
    integrate acquired companies, and any inability to do so may
    disrupt our business and hinder our ability to
    grow.


 


    One aspect of our business strategy calls for acquisitions of
    businesses that complement or expand our current business. We
    may not be able to identify attractive acquisition
    opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive candidates, we
    may not be able to complete the acquisition of them or do so on
    commercially acceptable terms.


 


    In addition, our credit facility imposes certain direct
    limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination
    transactions involving our company. Our credit facility also
    limits our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could
    indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of
    businesses. If we desire to engage in an acquisition that is
    otherwise prohibited by our credit facility, we will be required
    to seek the consent of our lenders in accordance with the
    requirements of the facility, which consent may be withheld by
    the lenders under our credit facility in their discretion.
    Furthermore, given the current situation in the credit markets,
    many lenders are reluctant to provide consents in any
    circumstances, including to allow accretive transactions.


 


    If we acquire another business, we could have difficulty
    integrating its operations, systems, management and other
    personnel and technology with our own. These difficulties could
    disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and
    employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our
    results of operations. In addition, we



    
    24



Table of Contents




    may incur additional debt or issue additional equity to pay for
    any future acquisitions, subject to the limitations described
    above.


 



    The
    acquisition of the Henry Entities could expose us to potentially
    significant liabilities.


 


    In connection with the acquisition of the Henry Entities, we
    purchased all of the sellers’ interests in the Henry
    Entities, rather than individual assets; therefore, the Henry
    Entities retained their liabilities, subject to certain
    exclusions and limitations contained in the purchase agreement,
    including certain unknown and contingent liabilities. We
    performed limited due diligence in connection with the
    acquisition of the Henry Entities and attempted to verify the
    representations of the sellers and of the former management of
    the Henry Entities, but there may be threatened, contemplated,
    asserted or other claims against the Henry Entities related to
    environmental, title, regulatory, tax, contract, litigation or
    other matters of which we are unaware, which could materially
    adversely affect our production, revenues and results of
    operations. In addition, although the sellers agreed to
    indemnify us on a limited basis against certain liabilities,
    these indemnification obligations will expire over time and
    expose us to potential unindemnified liabilities, which could
    materially adversely affect our production, revenues and results
    of operations.


 



    Properties
    acquired may prove to be worth less than we paid because of
    uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential
    liabilities.


 


    We obtained the majority of our current reserve base through
    acquisitions of producing properties and undeveloped acreage,
    including those owned by the Henry Entities. We expect that
    acquisitions will continue to contribute to our future growth.
    Successful acquisitions of oil and gas properties require an
    assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of
    recoverable reserves, the timing of recovering reserves,
    exploration potential, future crude oil and natural gas prices,
    operating costs and potential environmental and other
    liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and we cannot make
    these assessments with a high degree of accuracy. In connection
    with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired
    properties. However, such a review will not reveal all existing
    or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us
    to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully
    assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect
    every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always
    discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that
    may exist or arise. We are sometimes unable to obtain
    contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities,
    including environmental liabilities and often acquire interests
    in properties on an “as is” basis with limited
    remedies for breaches of representations and warranties.


 



    Competition
    in the oil and gas industry is intense, making it more difficult
    for us to acquire properties, market crude oil and natural gas
    and secure trained personnel.


 


    We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring
    properties, marketing crude oil and natural gas and securing
    trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ
    financial, technical and personnel resources substantially
    greater than ours, which can be particularly important in the
    areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay
    more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory
    prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number
    of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel
    resources permit. In addition, those companies may be able to
    offer better compensation packages to attract and retain
    qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to
    attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the
    past few years due to competition and may increase substantially
    in the future. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and
    to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our
    ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to
    consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment.
    Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for
    investment in the oil and gas industry. We may not be able to
    compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective
    reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons,
    attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising
    additional capital. Our failure to acquire properties, market
    crude oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel and
    adequately compensate personnel could have a material adverse
    effect on our production, revenues and results of operations.



    
    25



Table of Contents





    Shortages
    of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could
    delay our drilling program and increase the prices we pay to
    obtain such equipment, services and personnel.


 


    The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to
    drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists,
    geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and
    gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation
    with crude oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic
    shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling
    and workover rigs, pipe and other oilfield equipment as demand
    for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of
    wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant
    increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher
    crude oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and
    result in increased prices for drilling and workover rigs, crews
    and associated supplies, equipment and services. It is beyond
    our control and ability to predict whether these conditions will
    exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration
    will be. These types of shortages or price increases could
    significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and
    operating results, or restrict our ability to drill the wells
    and conduct the operations which we currently have planned and
    budgeted or which we may plan in the future.


 



    Our
    exploration and development drilling may not result in
    commercially productive reserves.


 


    Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the
    risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be
    encountered. New wells that we drill may not be productive, or
    we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such
    wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not
    allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that
    crude oil or natural gas is present or may be produced
    economically. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas often
    involves unprofitable efforts, not only from dry holes but also
    from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net
    reserves to return a profit at then realized prices after
    deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of
    drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain,
    and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a
    project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed,
    delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    title problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or lost circulation in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    compliance with environmental and other governmental or
    contractual requirements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or
    workover rigs, equipment and services.





 



    We
    periodically evaluate our unproved oil and gas properties for
    impairment, and could be required to recognize noncash charges
    to earnings of future periods.


 


    At December 31, 2008, we carried unproved property costs of
    $377.2 million. GAAP requires periodic evaluation of these
    costs on a
    project-by-project
    basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. These
    evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration
    activities, commodity price circumstances, planned future sales
    or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and
    permits appurtenant to such projects. If the quantity of
    potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not
    sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project,
    we will recognize noncash charges to earnings of future periods.


 



    We may
    incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability
    claims as a result of our crude oil and natural gas operations.
    In addition, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be
    inadequate to protect us against, these risks.


 


    We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities
    arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially
    and adversely affect our business, financial condition or
    results of operations. Our crude oil and



    
    26



Table of Contents




    natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to
    all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and
    producing crude oil and natural gas, including the possibility
    of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of crude
    oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other
    pollution into the environment, including groundwater
    contamination;




 



     
        • 

    
    abnormally pressured or structured formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and
    service tools and casing collapse;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;




 



     
        • 

    
    personal injuries and death; and




 



     
        • 

    
    natural disasters.





 


    Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct
    operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    injury or loss of life;




 



     
        • 

    
    damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and
    equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    pollution and other environmental damage;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory investigations and penalties;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspension of our operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    repair and remediation costs.





 


    We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost
    of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks
    presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks
    generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event
    that is not covered or not fully covered by insurance could have
    a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and
    results of operations.


 



    Market
    conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to
    crude oil and natural gas markets or delay our
    production.


 


    Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory crude
    oil and natural gas processing or transportation arrangements
    may hinder our access to crude oil and natural gas markets or
    delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our
    crude oil and natural gas production depends on a number of
    factors, including the demand for and supply of crude oil and
    natural gas, the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal
    facilities, competition for such facilities and the inability of
    such facilities to gather, transport or process our production
    due to shutdowns or curtailments arising from mechanical,
    operational or weather related matters, including hurricanes and
    other severe weather conditions. Our ability to market our
    production depends in substantial part on the availability and
    capacity of gathering and transportation systems, pipelines and
    processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our
    failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations. We may be required to shut in wells due
    to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of crude
    oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas pipeline or gathering,
    transportation or processing capacity. If that were to occur,
    then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells
    until suitable arrangements were made to market our production.


 



    We are
    subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and
    regulations that could adversely affect the cost, timing, manner
    or feasibility of conducting our operations.


 


    Our crude oil and natural gas exploration, development and
    production, and saltwater disposal operations are subject to
    complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct
    our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we
    must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and
    certificates from various federal, state, local and governmental
    authorities. We may incur substantial costs and experience
    delays in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws
    and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may
    increase or



    
    27



Table of Contents




    our operations may be otherwise adversely affected if existing
    laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new
    laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. These
    and other costs could have a material adverse effect on our
    production, revenues and results of operations.


 


    Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and
    regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental
    authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the
    exploration for, and the production of, crude oil and natural
    gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as
    interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect
    on our production, revenues and results of operations.


 



    We may
    incur substantial costs to comply with, and demand for our
    products may be reduced by, climate change legislation and
    regulatory initiatives.


 


    The United States Congress is considering legislation to reduce
    emissions of greenhouse gases and more than one-third of the
    states, either individually or through multi-state initiatives,
    already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce
    emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, the EPA has
    announced possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions
    under the Clean Air Act. Depending on the nature of potential
    regulations and legislation, such future laws and regulations
    could result in increased compliance costs or additional
    operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect
    on our business or demand for the oil and natural gas we produce.


 



    Our
    operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with
    respect to environmental and operational safety
    matters.


 


    We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a
    result of environmental, health and safety requirements
    applicable to our crude oil and natural gas exploration,
    development and production, and saltwater disposal activities.
    These delays, costs and liabilities could arise under a wide
    range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating
    to protection of the environment, health and safety, including
    regulations and enforcement policies that have tended to become
    increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws
    and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative,
    civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site
    restoration costs and liens, and, to a lesser extent, issuance
    of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims
    for damages to persons or property, including natural resources,
    may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of
    our operations.


 


    Strict as well as joint and several liability may be imposed
    under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become
    liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own
    actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the
    time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or
    enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose
    unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance
    costs. If we were not able to recover the resulting costs
    through insurance or increased revenues, our production,
    revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.


 



    The
    loss of our chief executive officer or other key personnel could
    negatively impact our ability to execute our business
    strategy.


 


    We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable
    future, on the services of our chief executive officer, Timothy
    A. Leach, and other key employees who have extensive experience
    and expertise in evaluating and analyzing producing oil and gas
    properties and drilling prospects, maximizing production from
    oil and gas properties, marketing oil and gas production, and
    developing and executing acquisition, financing and hedging
    strategies. Our ability to hire and retain our officers and key
    employees is important to our continued success and growth. The
    unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these
    individuals could negatively impact our ability to execute our
    business strategy.


 



    Uncertainties
    associated with enhanced recovery methods may result in us not
    realizing an acceptable return on our investments in such
    projects.


 


    We inject water into formations on some of our properties to
    increase the production of crude oil and natural gas. We may in
    the future expand these efforts to more of our properties or
    employ other enhanced recovery methods in our operations. The
    additional production and reserves, if any, attributable to the
    use of enhanced



    
    28



Table of Contents




    recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict. If our
    enhanced recovery methods do not allow for the extraction of
    crude oil and natural gas in a manner or to the extent that we
    anticipate, we may not realize an acceptable return on our
    investments in such projects.


 



    Our
    indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more
    vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.


 


    We now have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of
    indebtedness, and the terms of our credit facility require us to
    pay higher interest rate margins as we utilize a larger
    percentage of our available borrowing base. At December 31,
    2008, our total debt was $630.0 million. Assuming our total
    debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 was held constant, if
    interest rates had been higher or lower by 1 percent per
    annum, our annual interest expense would have increased or
    decreased by approximately $6.3 million. At
    December 31, 2008, our total borrowing capacity under our
    credit facility was $960 million, of which
    $329.7 million was available.


 


    Our current and future indebtedness could have important
    consequences to you. For example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to make investments and obtain additional
    financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
    acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
    our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of
    these funds to make principal and interest payments on our
    indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to borrow funds that may be necessary to
    operate or expand our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have
    less debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    hinder our ability to adjust to rapidly changing economic and
    industry conditions.





 


    Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations may
    depend in significant part on the extent to which we can
    successfully implement our business strategy. We may not be able
    to implement or realize the benefits of our business strategy.


 



    Our
    credit facility imposes restrictions on us that may affect our
    ability to successfully operate our business.


 


    Our credit facility limits our ability to take various actions,
    such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incurring additional indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    paying dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    creating certain additional liens on our assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    entering into sale and leaseback transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    making investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    entering into transactions with affiliates;




 



     
        • 

    
    making material changes to the type of business we conduct or
    our business structure;




 



     
        • 

    
    making guarantees;




 



     
        • 

    
    disposing of assets in excess of certain permitted amounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    merging or consolidating with other entities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    selling all or substantially all of our assets.





 


    In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain certain
    financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial conditions,
    which may require us to reduce our debt or take some other
    action in order to comply with each of them.



    
    29



Table of Contents




    These restrictions could also limit our ability to obtain future
    financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a
    downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise
    conduct necessary corporate activities. We also may be prevented
    from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise
    because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive
    covenants under our credit facility.


 



    A
    terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business by
    decreasing our revenues and increasing our costs.


 


    Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed
    conflict involving the United States may adversely affect the
    United States and global economies and could prevent us from
    meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these
    events occur or escalate, the resulting political instability
    and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for crude
    oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on
    demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenue.
    Crude oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct
    targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be
    adversely impacted if significant infrastructure or facilities
    we use for the production, transportation or marketing of our
    crude oil and natural gas production are destroyed or damaged.
    Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result
    of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more
    difficult to obtain, if available at all.


 



    Risks
    Relating to Our Common Stock


 



    Our
    restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated
    bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage
    acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect
    the market price of our common stock.


 


    Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board
    of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder
    approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred
    stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire
    us. In addition, some provisions of our restated certificate of
    incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law
    could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire
    control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial
    to our stockholders, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the organization of our board of directors as a classified
    board, which allows no more than approximately one-third of our
    directors to be elected each year;




 



     
        • 

    
    stockholders cannot remove directors from our board of directors
    except for cause and then only by the holders of not less than
    662/3 percent
    of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    the prohibition of stockholder action by written
    consent; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special
    meetings and establish advance notice provisions for stockholder
    proposals and nominations for elections to the board of
    directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.





 



    Because
    we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock,
    stockholders must look solely to stock appreciation for a return
    on their investment in us.


 


    We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common
    stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain
    all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our
    business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the
    discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among
    other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital
    requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual
    restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other
    considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. The
    terms of our existing credit facility restricts the payment of
    dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders.
    Stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after
    price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to
    realize a return on their investment.



    
    30



Table of Contents





    The
    availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the
    market price of our common stock.


 


    In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for
    acquisitions, the payment of our indebtedness or other purposes.
    We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a
    combination of cash and our common stock or solely our common
    stock. We may also issue securities convertible into our common
    stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in
    us and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.


 


    In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock
    in the public market or the perception that these sales may
    occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This
    could also impair our ability to raise additional capital
    through the sale of our securities.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B