Item 1A. Risk Factors,” as well as those
factors summarized below:

·        
declines in the prices we receive
for our oil and natural gas;

·        
uncertainties about the estimated
quantities of oil and natural gas reserves;

·        
drilling and operating risks,
including risks related to properties where we do not serve as the operator and
risks related to hydraulic fracturing activities;

·        
the adequacy of our capital
resources and liquidity including, but not limited to, access to additional
borrowing capacity under our credit facility;

·        
the effects of government regulation,
permitting and other legal requirements, including new legislation or
regulation of hydraulic fracturing and the export of oil and natural gas;

·        
environmental hazards, such as
uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or
other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination;

·        
difficult and adverse conditions in
the domestic and global capital and credit markets;

·        
risks related to the concentration
of our operations in the Permian Basin of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas;

·        
disruptions to, capacity
constraints in or other limitations on the pipeline systems that deliver our
oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas and other processing and
transportation considerations;

·        
shortages of oilfield equipment, supplies,
water, services and qualified personnel and increased costs for such equipment,
supplies, services and personnel;

·        
potential financial losses or
earnings reductions from our commodity price management program;

·        
risks and liabilities associated
with acquired properties or businesses;

·        
uncertainties about our ability to
successfully execute our business and financial plans and strategies;

·        
uncertainties about our ability to
replace reserves and economically develop our current reserves;

·        
general economic and business
conditions, either internationally or domestically;

·        
competition in the oil and natural
gas industry; and

·        
uncertainty concerning our assumed
or possible future results of operations.

Reserve engineering is a process of
estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be
measured in an exact way. The accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on the
quality of available data, the interpretation of such data and price and cost
assumptions made by our reserve engineers. In addition, the results of
drilling, testing and production activities may justify revisions of estimates
that were made previously. If significant, such revisions would change the
schedule of any further production and development drilling. Accordingly, reserve
estimates may differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are
ultimately recovered.    





1 








 



PART I

 

Item 1. Business

 

General

 

Concho Resources Inc., a Delaware corporation
(“Concho,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our”) formed in February 2006, is an
independent oil and natural gas company engaged in the acquisition, development
and exploration of oil and natural gas properties. Our core operating areas are
located in the Permian Basin region of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas, a
large onshore oil and natural gas basin in the United States. The Permian Basin
is one of the most prolific oil and natural gas producing regions in the United
States and is characterized by an extensive production history, long reserve life,
multiple producing horizons and enhanced recovery potential. More recently, the
Permian Basin has experienced a resurgence in primary drilling activity related
to horizontal “unconventional” targets, primarily in the Delaware and Midland
Basins. We refer to our three core operating areas as the (i) New Mexico Shelf,
where we primarily target the Yeso formation with horizontal and vertical
development, (ii) Delaware Basin, where we use horizontal drilling and
technology to target the Bone Spring formation (including the Avalon shale and
the Bone Spring sands) and the Wolfcamp shale formation and (iii) Texas Permian
in the Midland Basin, where we target the Wolfcamp and Spraberry formations
with horizontal and vertical development. We intend to grow our reserves and
production through development drilling and exploration activities on our
multi-year project inventory and through acquisitions that meet our strategic
and financial objectives.

 

Business and Properties

 

Our core operations are focused in the Permian
Basin, which underlies an area of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas
approximately 250 miles wide and 300 miles long. Commercial
accumulations of hydrocarbons occur in multiple stratigraphic horizons, at
depths ranging from approximately 1,000 feet to over 25,000 feet. At
December 31, 2014, substantially all of our 637.2 MMBoe total estimated
proved reserves were located in our core operating areas and consisted of
approximately 58.1 percent oil and 41.9 percent natural gas. We have
assembled a multi-year inventory of vertical and horizontal development
drilling and exploration projects, including projects to further evaluate the
regional extent and multi-pay potential of our New Mexico Shelf, Delaware Basin
and Texas Permian assets. We believe these projects, combined with the
application of horizontal drilling and enhanced completion technology, will
enable us to further grow our proved reserves and production.

 

The following table sets forth information with respect to
drilling of wells commenced during the periods indicated:




 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Years Ended December 31,
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2014
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2013
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2012
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  Gross wells 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  595
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  633
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  840
  
 

  
  Net wells 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  370
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  371
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  519
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  Percent of gross wells drilled horizontally 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  69.1%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  43.8%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  26.8%
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  Percent of gross wells:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Producers 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  69.9%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  83.1%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  80.0%
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Unsuccessful 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  0.2%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  0.3%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  1.0%
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Awaiting completion at year-end 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  29.9%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  16.6%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  19.0%
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  100.0%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  100.0%
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  100.0%
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 




 

In 2014, we drilled 69.1
percent of our wells horizontally. We will continue to evaluate converting our
identified vertical locations to horizontal opportunities, where possible. We believe
horizontal drilling is more capital efficient than vertical drilling in many
situations. In 2015, we plan to spend approximately 90 percent of our capital budget
for drilling and completion activities on horizontal drilling opportunities.

 

We produced approximately 40.9 MMBoe, 33.6 MMBoe and 29.8
MMBoe of oil and natural gas during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Included
in 2012 production amounts are 1,807 MBoe of production related to our
discontinued 



2 








 



operations. In addition, we increased our
average daily production from 97.0 MBoe during the fourth quarter of 2013
to 124.8 MBoe during the fourth quarter of 2014. During 2014,
approximately 56 percent of our total production was attributable to horizontal
wells. During 2014, we increased our total estimated proved reserves by
approximately 134.3 MMBoe, including acquisitions of 5.7 MMBoe.

 

Summary of Core Operating
Areas and Other Plays

 

The following is a summary of information regarding our
core operating areas and other plays:




 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  December 31, 2014
  
 
   
  
 
  Year Ended
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  December 31,
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Estimated
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2014 Average
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Proved
  
 
   
  
 
  PV-10
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total 
  
 
   
  
 
  Total 
  
 
   
  
 
  Daily 
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Reserves
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  ($ in
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  % Proved
  
 
   
  
 
  Gross
  
 
   
  
 
  Net
  
 
   
  
 
  Production
  
 

  
  Areas
  
 
   
  
 
  (MBoe)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   millions) 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  % Oil
  
 
   
  
 
  Developed
  
 
   
  
 
  Acreage
  
 
   
  
 
  Acreage
  
 
   
  
 
  (Boe per Day)
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  Core Operating Areas:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  New Mexico Shelf 
  
 
   
  
 
  247,816
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  4,315.2
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  56.8%
  
 
   
  
 
  65.7%
  
 
   
  
 
  157,826
  
 
   
  
 
  106,559
  
 
   
  
 
  31,572
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Delaware Basin 
  
 
   
  
 
  243,848
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  4,878.8
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  57.3%
  
 
   
  
 
  53.0%
  
 
   
  
 
  636,242
  
 
   
  
 
  423,885
  
 
   
  
 
  56,641
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Texas Permian 
  
 
   
  
 
  145,413
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2,189.6
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  61.8%
  
 
   
  
 
  58.3%
  
 
   
  
 
  329,007
  
 
   
  
 
  163,014
  
 
   
  
 
  23,738
  
 

  
  Other 
  
 
   
  
 
  106
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  1.2
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  6.0%
  
 
   
  
 
  100.0%
  
 
   
  
 
  4,116
  
 
   
  
 
  2,893
  
 
   
  
 
  36
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Total 
  
 
   
  
 
  637,183
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  11,384.8
  
 
  (a)
  
 
  58.1%
  
 
   
  
 
  59.1%
  
 
   
  
 
  1,127,191
  
 
   
  
 
  696,351
  
 
   
  
 
  111,987
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 




 

(a)     
Our Standardized Measure at
December 31, 2014 was $8.0 billion. The present value of estimated future net revenues
discounted at an annual rate of 10 percent (“PV-10”)
is not a GAAP financial measure and is derived from the Standardized Measure,
which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. PV-10 is a
computation of the Standardized Measure on a pre-tax basis. PV-10 is equal to
the Standardized Measure at the applicable date, before deducting future income
taxes, discounted at 10 percent. We believe that the presentation of PV-10 is
relevant and useful to investors because it presents the discounted future net
cash flows attributable to our estimated proved reserves prior to taking into
account future corporate income taxes, and it is a useful measure for
evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas
assets. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of
the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies. We use this
measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to our oil
and natural gas assets. PV-10, however, is not a substitute for the
Standardized Measure. Our PV-10 measure and the Standardized Measure do not
purport to present the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves. See
“Item 1. Business —Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.”

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

 

Core
operating areas

 

New Mexico Shelf.  At December 31, 2014, we had
estimated proved reserves in this area of 247.8 MMBoe, representing 38.9 percent
of our total proved reserves and 37.9 percent of our PV-10.

 

Within this area our primary objectives are the
Yeso, San Andres and Grayburg formations, with producing depths ranging
from approximately 900 feet to 7,500 feet. We have drilled and plan to continue to evaluate drilling
horizontally in the Yeso formation. During 2014, we
continued our vertical development of the Yeso formation on 10 and 20 acre
spacing.

 

During the year ended December 31, 2014, we commenced
drilling or participated in the drilling of 134 (85 net) wells in this area. Throughout 2014, we completed 121 (74 net) wells that are producing. Additionally in 2014, we abandoned
3 (2 net) wells that were deemed unsuccessful. During 2014, approximately 46 percent of the wells we
commenced or participated in drilling were drilled horizontally.

 

In 2015, we plan to spend approximately $200 million, or 11
percent, of our 2015 drilling and completions capital budget on the New Mexico
Shelf assets. We expect that approximately 52 percent of these wells will be
drilled horizontally.

 

Delaware Basin. At
December 31, 2014, we had estimated proved
reserves in the Delaware Basin of 243.8 MMBoe, representing 
38.3 percent of our total proved reserves and 42.8 percent of our PV-10.

 

Within this area, we utilize horizontal drilling and completion
technologies to target (i) the oil-prone Bone Spring formation that includes
(a) three Bone Spring sandstone members and (b) the Avalon shale and (ii) the
Wolfcamp shale. These formations produce from 4,700 feet to 13,500 feet for our
currently targeted activity. Within the Delaware Basin, we have drilled and are
also actively evaluating the Delaware sands and Penn shale opportunities on our
acreage.

 





3 








 



During the year ended December 31, 2014,
we commenced drilling or participated in the drilling of 294 (199 net) wells in
this area. Throughout 2014, we completed 247 (173 net) wells that are producing. Additionally in 2014, we abandoned 8 (8 net)
wells that were deemed unsuccessful. During 2014,
we continued (i) development and step-out activity targeting the Brushy Canyon
sands, Avalon shale, Bone Spring sands and Wolfcamp shale and (ii) evaluation
of our enhanced stimulation procedures of certain horizontal wells. During 2014, approximately all of the wells we commenced or
participated in drilling were drilled horizontally.

 

In 2015, we plan to spend approximately $1.3 billion, or 72
percent, of our 2015 drilling and completions capital budget on our Delaware
Basin assets. We expect that 100 percent of these wells will be drilled
horizontally.

 

Texas Permian. At December 31, 2014, our estimated
proved reserves of 145.4 MMBoe in this area accounted for 22.8 percent of
our total proved reserves and 19.3 percent of our PV-10 value.

 

Our primary objectives in the Texas Permian
area are the vertical Wolfberry and the horizontal zones in the same interval in
the Midland Basin. “Wolfberry” is the term applied to the combined production
from the Spraberry and Wolfcamp horizons out of vertical wellbores, which are
typically encountered at depths of 7,500 feet to 10,500 feet. These
formations are comprised of a sequence of basinal, interbedded sands, shales
and carbonates. On our Texas Permian assets we are continuing to evaluate (i) horizontal
Wolfcamp and Spraberry drilling, (ii) other potential zones on our acreage and
(iii) ultimate well spacing.

 

During the
year ended December 31, 2014, we commenced drilling
or participated in the drilling of 167 (86 net) wells in this area. Throughout
2014, we completed 145 (71 net) wells that are
producing. Additionally in 2014, we abandoned 1 (1 net) well that was
deemed unsuccessful. During 2014,
approximately 34 percent of the wells we commenced or participated in drilling
were drilled horizontally.

 

In 2015, we plan to spend approximately $300 million, or 17
percent, of our 2015 drilling and completions capital budget on the Texas
Permian assets. We expect that approximately 39 percent of these wells will be
drilled horizontally.

 



4 








 



Drilling Activities

 

The following table sets forth information with
respect to (i) wells drilled and completed during the periods indicated and
(ii) wells drilled in a prior period but completed in the periods indicated.
The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor
should a correlation be assumed between the number of productive wells drilled,
quantities of reserves found or economic value.




 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Years Ended December 31,
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2014
  
 
   
  
 
  2013
  
 
   
  
 
  2012
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Gross
  
 
   
  
 
  Net
  
 
   
  
 
  Gross
  
 
   
  
 
  Net
  
 
   
  
 
  Gross
  
 
   
  
 
  Net
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  Development wells:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Productive 
  
 
   
  
 
  201
  
 
   
  
 
  128
  
 
   
  
 
  354
  
 
   
  
 
  204
  
 
   
  
 
  468
  
 
   
  
 
  318
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Dry
  
 
   
  
 
  1
  
 
   
  
 
  1
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
  1
  
 
   
  
 
  1
  
 

  
  Exploratory wells:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Productive 
  
 
   
  
 
  312
  
 
   
  
 
  190
  
 
   
  
 
  321
  
 
   
  
 
  184
  
 
   
  
 
  331
  
 
   
  
 
  191
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Dry
  
 
   
  
 
  11
  
 
   
  
 
  10
  
 
   
  
 
  4
  
 
   
  
 
  4
  
 
   
  
 
  4
  
 
   
  
 
  3
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total wells:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Productive 
  
 
   
  
 
  513
  
 
   
  
 
  318
  
 
   
  
 
  675
  
 
   
  
 
  388
  
 
   
  
 
  799
  
 
   
  
 
  509
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Dry (a)
  
 
   
  
 
  12
  
 
   
  
 
  11
  
 
   
  
 
  4
  
 
   
  
 
  4
  
 
   
  
 
  5
  
 
   
  
 
  4
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
       Total  
  
 
   
  
 
  525
  
 
   
  
 
  329
  
 
   
  
 
  679
  
 
   
  
 
  392
  
 
   
  
 
  804
  
 
   
  
 
  513
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  (a)  The dry category includes 5 (3.8 net) wells that were
  unsuccessful due to mechanical or other issues for the year ended December
  31, 2014.
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 




 

The following table sets forth information
about wells for which drilling was in-progress or are pending completion at
December 31, 2014, which are not included in the above table:




 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Drilling In-Progress
  
 
   
  
 
  Pending Completion
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Gross
  
 
   
  
 
  Net
  
 
   
  
 
  Gross
  
 
   
  
 
  Net
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  Development wells
  
 
   
  
 
  14
  
 
   
  
 
  8
  
 
   
  
 
  57
  
 
   
  
 
  34
  
 

  
  Exploratory wells
  
 
   
  
 
  31
  
 
   
  
 
  21
  
 
   
  
 
  82
  
 
   
  
 
  45
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Total
  
 
   
  
 
  45
  
 
   
  
 
  29
  
 
   
  
 
  139
  
 
   
  
 
  79
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 








5 








 



Our Production, Prices and Expenses

 

The following table sets forth summary
information concerning our production and operating data from continuing
operations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. The table
below excludes production and operating data that we have classified as
discontinued operations, which is more fully described in Note 13 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.” For other selected financial data including
operating revenues, net income and total assets, see “Item 6. Selected
Financial Data.” The actual historical data in this table excludes results from
the acquisition of producing and non-producing assets from Three Rivers
Operating 
Company LLC and certain affiliated entities (the “Three Rivers Acquisition”)
for periods prior to July 2012. Because of normal production declines,
increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of acquisitions or
divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be
interpreted as being indicative of future results.




 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
    
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
    
  
 
  Years Ended December 31,
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2014
  
 
   
  
 
  2013
  
 
   
  
 
  2012
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  Production and operating data from continuing operations:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Net production volumes:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Oil (MBbl) 
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
  26,319
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  21,126
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  16,859
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Natural gas (MMcf) 
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
  87,336
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  75,054
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  66,613
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total (MBoe) 
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
  40,875
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  33,635
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  27,961
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Average daily production volumes:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Oil (Bbl) 
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
  72,107
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  57,879
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  46,063
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Natural gas (Mcf) 
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
  239,277
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  205,627
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  182,003
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total (Boe) 
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
  111,987
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  92,150
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  76,397
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Average prices:
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Oil, without derivatives (Bbl) 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  83.17
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  91.76
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  87.96
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Oil, with derivatives (Bbl) (a) 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  86.07
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  89.79
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  89.29
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Natural gas, without derivatives (Mcf) 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.39
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.08
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.06
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Natural gas, with derivatives (Mcf) (a) 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.34
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.21
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.07
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total, without derivatives (Boe) 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  65.08
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  68.97
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  65.08
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total, with derivatives (Boe) (a) 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  66.84
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  68.01
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  65.93
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Operating costs and expenses per Boe:
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Lease operating expenses and workover costs 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  8.05
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  7.85
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  6.90
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Oil and natural gas taxes 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.12
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.69
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.39
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Depreciation, depletion and amortization 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  23.97
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  22.97
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  20.56
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  General and administrative 
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  4.99
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  5.04
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  4.79
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  (a)
  
 
  Includes the effect of cash receipts from (payments on)
  derivatives not designated as hedges:
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
    
  
 
  Years Ended December 31,
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (in thousands)
  
 
   
  
 
  2014
  
 
   
  
 
  2013
  
 
   
  
 
  2012
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Cash receipts from (payments on) derivatives not
  designated as hedges:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Oil derivatives 
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  76,335
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  (41,616)
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  22,411
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Natural gas derivatives 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (4,352)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  9,275
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  1,125
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  71,983
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  (32,341)
  
 
    
  
 
  $
  
 
  23,536
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  The presentation
  of average prices with derivatives is a non-GAAP measure as a result of
  including the cash receipts from (payments on) commodity derivatives that are
  presented in our statements of cash flows. This presentation of average
  prices with derivatives is a means by which to reflect the actual cash
  performance of our commodity derivatives for the respective periods and
  presents oil and natural gas prices with derivatives in a manner consistent
  with the presentation generally used by the investment community.
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 




 



6 








 



Productive Wells

 

The following table sets forth the number of productive oil
and natural gas wells on our properties at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.
This table does not include wells in which we own a royalty interest only.




 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Gross Productive Wells
  
 
   
  
 
  Net Productive Wells
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Natural 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Natural 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Oil
  
 
   
  
 
  Gas
  
 
   
  
 
  Total
  
 
   
  
 
  Oil
  
 
   
  
 
  Gas
  
 
   
  
 
  Total
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  December 31, 2014
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Core Operating Areas:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  New Mexico Shelf 
  
 
   
  
 
  2,994
  
 
   
  
 
  109
  
 
   
  
 
  3,103
  
 
   
  
 
  2,427
  
 
   
  
 
  45
  
 
   
  
 
  2,472
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Delaware Basin 
  
 
   
  
 
  1,142
  
 
   
  
 
  480
  
 
   
  
 
  1,622
  
 
   
  
 
  621
  
 
   
  
 
  216
  
 
   
  
 
  837
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Texas Permian 
  
 
   
  
 
  2,436
  
 
   
  
 
  44
  
 
   
  
 
  2,480
  
 
   
  
 
  1,147
  
 
   
  
 
  19
  
 
   
  
 
  1,166
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Other
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
  3
  
 
   
  
 
  3
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
  0
  
 
   
  
 
  0
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total 
  
 
   
  
 
  6,572
  
 
   
  
 
  636
  
 
   
  
 
  7,208
  
 
   
  
 
  4,195
  
 
   
  
 
  280
  
 
   
  
 
  4,475
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  December 31, 2013
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Core Operating Areas:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  New Mexico Shelf 
  
 
   
  
 
  2,962
  
 
   
  
 
  102
  
 
   
  
 
  3,064
  
 
   
  
 
  2,416
  
 
   
  
 
  44
  
 
   
  
 
  2,460
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Delaware Basin 
  
 
   
  
 
  785
  
 
   
  
 
  405
  
 
   
  
 
  1,190
  
 
   
  
 
  424
  
 
   
  
 
  177
  
 
   
  
 
  601
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Texas Permian 
  
 
   
  
 
  2,226
  
 
   
  
 
  47
  
 
   
  
 
  2,273
  
 
   
  
 
  1,047
  
 
   
  
 
  17
  
 
   
  
 
  1,064
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total 
  
 
   
  
 
  5,973
  
 
   
  
 
  554
  
 
   
  
 
  6,527
  
 
   
  
 
  3,887
  
 
   
  
 
  238
  
 
   
  
 
  4,125
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  December 31, 2012
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Core Operating Areas:
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  New Mexico Shelf 
  
 
   
  
 
  2,719
  
 
   
  
 
  105
  
 
   
  
 
  2,824
  
 
   
  
 
  2,288
  
 
   
  
 
  46
  
 
   
  
 
  2,334
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Delaware Basin 
  
 
   
  
 
  586
  
 
   
  
 
  404
  
 
   
  
 
  990
  
 
   
  
 
  311
  
 
   
  
 
  175
  
 
   
  
 
  486
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Texas Permian 
  
 
   
  
 
  1,972
  
 
   
  
 
  45
  
 
   
  
 
  2,017
  
 
   
  
 
  925
  
 
   
  
 
  18
  
 
   
  
 
  943
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Total 
  
 
   
  
 
  5,277
  
 
   
  
 
  554
  
 
   
  
 
  5,831
  
 
   
  
 
  3,524
  
 
   
  
 
  239
  
 
   
  
 
  3,763
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 








7 








 



Marketing Arrangements

 

General. We market our oil and natural gas in accordance with
standard energy industry practices. The marketing effort is coordinated with
our operations group as it relates to the planning and preparation of future
drilling programs so that available markets can be assessed and secured. This
planning also involves the coordination of access to the physical facilities
necessary to connect new producing wells as efficiently as possible upon their
completion.

 

Oil. We generally 
 do not transport our oil, and
we do not refine or process the oil we produce. A significant portion of our
oil in Southeast New Mexico, primarily on the New Mexico Shelf, is connected
directly to oil gathering pipelines. Most of our gathered oil from the New
Mexico Shelf is utilized in a two-refinery complex in Southeast New Mexico. The
New Mexico portion of our Delaware Basin production is sold to approximately
twelve different oil purchasers. A significant portion of our West Texas
production is on pipeline. Most of this production is sweet crude and is
transported by third parties to the Cushing, Oklahoma hub or to the Gulf Coast
market. The balance of our oil in these areas that is not directly connected to
pipeline is (i) trucked to unloading stations on those same pipelines or (ii)
railed to the Gulf Coast in lieu of transporting by pipeline. We sell the
majority of the oil we produce under contracts using market-based pricing. This
price is then adjusted for differentials based upon delivery location and oil
quality.

 

Natural Gas. We consider all natural gas gathering and delivery
infrastructure in the areas of our production and evaluate market options to
obtain the best price reasonably available under the circumstances. We sell the
majority of our natural gas under individually negotiated natural gas purchase
contracts using market-based pricing. The majority of our natural gas is
subject to long-term agreements that extend at least three years from the effective
date of the subject contract.

 

The majority of the natural gas we sell is
casinghead gas sold at the lease location under percentage of proceeds
processing contracts. The purchaser gathers our casinghead natural gas in the
field where it is produced and transports it via pipeline to a natural gas
processing plant where natural gas liquid products are extracted and sold by
the processor. The remaining natural gas product is residue gas, or dry gas,
which is placed on residue pipeline systems available in the area. Under our
percentage of proceeds contracts, we receive a percentage of the value for the
extracted liquids and the residue gas. In a limited number of cases (typically
dry gas production), the natural gas gathering and transportation is performed
by a third-party gathering company which transports the production from the
production location to the purchaser’s mainline.

 

Our Principal Customers

 

We sell our oil and natural gas production
principally to marketers and other purchasers that have access to pipeline
facilities. In areas where there is no practical access to pipelines, oil is
transported to storage facilities by trucks and rail owned or otherwise
arranged by the marketers or purchasers. Our marketing of oil and natural gas
can be affected by factors beyond our control, the effects of which cannot be
accurately predicted.

 

For 2014, revenues from oil and natural gas
sales to Holly Frontier Refining and
Marketing, LLC, Enterprise Crude Oil, LLC and Western Refining Company LP accounted for approximately 17 percent, 12 percent and 12
percent, respectively, of our total operating revenues. While the loss of any
of these purchasers may result in a temporary interruption in sales of, or a
lower price for, our production, we believe that the loss of any of these
purchasers would not have a material adverse effect on our operations, as there
are alternative purchasers in our producing regions.

 

Competition

 

The oil and natural gas industry in the regions
in which we operate is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition from
numerous parties, ranging generally from small independent producers to major
integrated companies. We primarily encounter significant competition in
acquiring properties, contracting for drilling, pressure pumping and workover
equipment and securing trained personnel. Many of these competitors have
financial, technical and personnel resources substantially larger than ours. As
a result, our competitors may be able to pay more for desirable properties, or
to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects
than our financial or personnel resources will permit.

 

In addition to competition for drilling,
pressure pumping and workover equipment, we are also affected by the
availability of related equipment and materials. The oil and natural gas
industry periodically experiences shortages of drilling and workover rigs,
equipment, pipe, materials and personnel, which can delay drilling, workover
and exploration activities and cause significant price increases. The shortages
of personnel make it difficult to attract and retain personnel with experience
in the oil and natural gas industry and caused us to increase our general and
administrative budget. We are unable to predict the timing or duration of any
such shortages.

 





8 








 



Competition is also strong for attractive oil
and natural gas producing properties, undeveloped leases and drilling rights.
Although we regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities and submit bids as
part of our growth strategy, we do not have any current agreements,
understandings or arrangements with respect to any material acquisition.

 

Applicable
Laws and Regulations

 

Regulation
of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry

 

Regulation of transportation and sale of oil.  Prices
at which sales of oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are made are not
currently regulated, and sales of these products are made at negotiated prices.
Nevertheless, Congress could reenact price controls in the future.

 

Our sales of oil
are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The
transportation of oil in common carrier pipelines is also subject to rate
regulation. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the “FERC”) regulates
interstate oil pipeline transportation rates under the Interstate Commerce Act.
In general, interstate oil pipeline rates must be cost-based, although
settlement rates agreed to by all shippers are permitted and market-based rates
may be permitted in certain circumstances. Effective January 1, 1995, the FERC
implemented regulations establishing an indexing system that permits an oil pipeline,
subject to limited challenges, to annually increase or decrease its
transportation rates due to inflationary changes in costs using a FERC approved
index, without making a cost of service filing. Every five years, the FERC
reviews the appropriateness of the index in relation to industry costs. On
December 16, 2010, the FERC established a new Producer Price Index for Finished
Goods (the “PPI-FG”) of PPI-FG plus 2.65 percent for the five-year period
beginning July 1, 2011. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and
the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil
pipeline rates, varies from state to state. Insofar as effective interstate and
intrastate rates are equally applicable to all comparable shippers, we believe
that the regulation of oil transportation rates will not affect our operations
in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors.

 

Further,
interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines must provide service on
a non-discriminatory basis at posted tariff rates. When oil pipelines operate
at full capacity, access is governed by prorationing provisions set forth in
the pipelines’ published tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that access to oil
pipeline transportation services generally will be available to us to the same
extent as to our competitors.

 

Effective
November 4, 2009, pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007,
the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) issued a rule prohibiting market
manipulation in the petroleum industry. The FTC rule prohibits any person,
directly or indirectly, in connection with the purchase or sale of oil,
gasoline or petroleum distillates at wholesale, from knowingly engaging in any
act, practice or course of business, including the making of any untrue
statement of material fact, that operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit
upon any person, or intentionally failing to state a material fact that under
the circumstances renders a statement made by such person misleading, provided
that such omission distorts or is likely to distort market conditions for any
such product. A violation of this rule may result in civil penalties of up to
$1 million per day per violation, in addition to any applicable penalty under
the Federal Trade Commission Act.

 

Regulation
of transportation and sale of natural gas.  Historically,
the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce
have been regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the “Natural Gas
Act”), the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the “Natural Gas Policy Act”) and
regulations issued under those acts by the FERC. In the past, the federal government
has regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold. While sales by
producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices,
Congress could reenact price controls in the future, and market participants
are prohibited from engaging in market manipulation. Deregulation of wellhead
natural gas sales began with the enactment of the Natural Gas Policy Act. In
1989, Congress enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act, which removed
all Natural Gas Act and Natural Gas Policy Act price and non-price controls
affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993.

 

The FERC regulates interstate natural
gas transportation rates and service conditions, which affects the marketing of
natural gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of
our natural gas. Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to make natural gas
transportation more accessible to natural gas buyers and sellers on an open and
non-discriminatory basis. The FERC has stated that open access policies are
necessary to improve the competitive structure of the interstate natural gas
pipeline industry and to create a regulatory framework that will put natural
gas sellers into more direct contractual relations with natural gas buyers by,
among other things, unbundling the sale of natural gas from the sale of
transportation and storage services. Beginning in 1992, the FERC issued Order
No. 636 and a series of related orders to implement its open access policies.
As a result of the Order No. 636 program, the marketing and pricing of natural
gas have been significantly altered. The interstate pipelines’ traditional role
as wholesalers of natural gas has been eliminated and 



9 








 



replaced
by a structure under which pipelines provide transportation and storage services
on an open access basis to others who buy and sell natural gas. Although these
orders do not directly regulate natural gas producers, they are intended to
foster increased competition within all phases of the natural gas industry.

 

In 2000, the FERC issued Order No. 637
and subsequent orders, which imposed a number of additional reforms designed to
enhance competition in natural gas markets. Among other things, Order No. 637
effected changes in FERC regulations relating to scheduling procedures, capacity
segmentation, penalties, rights of first refusal and information reporting.

 

In August 2005, Congress enacted the
Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“EPAct 2005”). Among other matters, EPAct 2005
amends the Natural Gas Act to make it unlawful for “any entity,” including
otherwise non-jurisdictional producers such as us, to use any deceptive or
manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of
natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to
regulation by the FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. The
FERC’s rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with
the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, or
the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of
the FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device,
scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or
omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not
misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or
deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose
civil penalties for violations of the Natural Gas Act or Natural Gas Policy Act up to $1 million per day per violation. The new
anti-manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to
intrastate or other non-jurisdictional sales, gathering or production, but does
apply to activities of otherwise non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the
activities are conducted “in connection with” natural gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC
jurisdiction, which now includes the annual reporting requirements under Order No. 704, as described below. EPAct 2005
therefore reflects a significant expansion of the FERC’s enforcement authority.
We do not anticipate we will be affected any differently than other producers
of natural gas.  

 

In December 2007, the FERC issued a rule (“Order No. 704”), as clarified
in orders on rehearing, requiring that any market participant, including a
producer such as us, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of natural
gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus during a calendar year to annually
report, starting May 1, 2009, such sales and purchases to the FERC. These rules
are intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale natural gas markets
and to assist the FERC in monitoring such markets and in detecting market
manipulation. We do not anticipate that we will be affected by these rules any
differently than other producers of natural gas.

 

We cannot accurately predict whether the
FERC’s actions will achieve the goal of increasing competition in markets in
which our natural gas is sold. Additional proposals and proceedings that might
affect the natural gas industry are pending before the FERC and the courts. The
natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated. Therefore,
we cannot provide any assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach
recently established by the FERC will continue. However, we do not believe that
any action taken will affect us in a way that materially differs from the way
it affects other natural gas producers.

 

Gathering service, which occurs upstream
of jurisdictional transmission services, is regulated by the states onshore and
in state waters. Although its policy is still in flux, the FERC has
reclassified certain jurisdictional transmission facilities as
non-jurisdictional gathering facilities, which has the tendency to increase our
costs of getting natural gas to point of sale locations.

 

Intrastate natural gas
transportation is also subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies. The
basis for intrastate regulation of natural gas transportation and the degree of
regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate natural gas pipeline
rates and services varies from state to state. During the 2007 legislative
session, the Texas State Legislature passed H.B. 3273 (the “Competition Bill”)
and H.B. 1920 (the “LUG Bill”). The Competition Bill gives the Railroad
Commission of Texas (the “RRC”) the ability to use either a cost-of-service
method or a market-based method for setting rates for natural gas gathering and
intrastate transportation pipelines in formal rate proceedings. It also gives
the RRC specific authority to enforce its statutory duty to prevent
discrimination in natural gas gathering and transportation, to enforce the
requirement that parties participate in an informal complaint process and to
penalize purchasers, transporters, and gatherers for taking discriminatory
actions against shippers and sellers. The Competition Bill also provides
producers with the unilateral option to determine whether or not
confidentiality provisions are included in a contract to which a producer is a
party for the sale, transportation or gathering of natural gas. The LUG Bill
modifies the informal complaint process at the RRC with procedures unique to
lost and unaccounted for natural gas issues. It extends the types of
information that can be requested, provides producers with an annual audit
right, and provides the RRC with the authority to make determinations and issue
orders in specific situations. Both the Competition Bill and the LUG Bill
became effective on September 1, 2007, and the RRC rules implementing the RRC’s
authority pursuant to the bills became effective on April 28, 2008.





10 








 



 

Insofar as such regulation
within a particular state will generally affect all intrastate natural gas
shippers within the state on a comparable basis, we believe that the regulation
of similarly situated intrastate natural gas transportation in any states in
which we operate and ship natural gas on an intrastate basis will not affect
our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our
competitors. Like the regulation of interstate transportation rates, the
regulation of intrastate transportation rates affects the marketing of natural
gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of our
natural gas.

 

Regulation
of production.  The production of oil and natural gas is subject to
regulation under a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules,
orders and regulations. Federal, state and local statutes and regulations
require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning
operations. All of the states in which we own and operate properties have
regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions for the
unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of
maximum allowable rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, the
regulation of well spacing, and the plugging and abandonment of wells. The
effect of these regulations is to limit the amount of oil and natural gas that
we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations
at which we can drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such regulations
or to have reductions in well spacing. Moreover, each state generally imposes a
production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil,
natural gas and natural gas liquids within its jurisdiction. The failure to
comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties.
Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to the same
regulatory requirements and restrictions that affect our operations.

 

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters

 

General. Our
operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws
and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of
materials into the environment. These laws, rules and regulations may, among
other things:

 

·        
require the acquisition of various permits before drilling
commences;

 

·        
restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various
substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and
natural gas drilling and production and saltwater disposal activities;

 

·        
limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying
within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and

 

·        
require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and
ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned
wells.

 

These laws, rules and
regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below
the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and
natural gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and
consequently affects profitability. Additionally, environmental laws and
regulations are revised frequently, and any changes that result in more
stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the
oil and natural gas industry could have a significant impact on our operating
costs.

 

The
following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules and regulations to
which our business is subject.

 

Waste handling. The
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state statutes
regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and
cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Pursuant to regulatory guidance
issued by the federal Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), the
individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes
in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids,
produced waters, and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration,
development, and production of oil or natural gas are currently regulated under
RCRA’s non-hazardous waste provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil
and natural gas exploration and production wastes now classified as
non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such
change could result in an increase in our costs to manage and dispose of wastes,
which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial position.

 

Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. The
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”),
also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without
regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are
considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the
environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the site where the
release 



11 








 



occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged
for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA,
such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of
cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the
environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain
health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and
other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage
allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.

 

We currently own, lease, or
operate numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas
exploration and production for many years. Although we believe that we have
utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the
industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have
been released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under
other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been
taken for disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been operated by
third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal
of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons were not under our control.
These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject
to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required
to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated
property, or perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination.

 

Water
discharges. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (the “Clean Water
Act”) and analogous state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls with
respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and
other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants
into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a
permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. Spill
prevention, control and countermeasure requirements under federal law require
appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the
contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon tank
spill, rupture or leak. In addition, the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws
require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of
storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. The Clean Water Act also
prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material in regulated waters,
including wetlands, unless authorized by permit. Federal and state
regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for
non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water
Act and analogous state laws and regulations.

 

Safe Drinking Water
Act. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations
generate produced water, drilling muds, and other waste streams, some of which
may be disposed via injection in underground wells situated in non-producing
subsurface formations. The drilling and operation of these injection wells are
regulated by the Safe Drinking Water Act (the “SDWA”). The Underground
Injection Well Program under the SDWA requires that we obtain permits from the
EPA or delegated state agencies for our disposal wells, establishes minimum
standards for injection well operations, restricts the types and quantities of
fluids that may be injected and prohibits the migration of fluid containing any
contaminants into underground sources of drinking water. Any leakage from the
subsurface portions of the injection wells may cause degradation of freshwater,
potentially resulting in cancellation of operations of a well, imposition of
fines and penalties from governmental agencies, incurrence of expenditures for
remediation of affected resources, and imposition of liability by landowners or
other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages,
and personal injuries. While we believe that we have obtained the necessary
permits from the applicable regulatory agencies for our underground injection
wells and that we are in substantial compliance with permit conditions and
federal and state rules, any changes in the laws or regulations or the
inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect
our ability to dispose of produced waters and would ultimately increase the
cost of our operations, which costs could be significant. For example, the RRC
recently adopted new permit rules for injection wells to address these seismic
activity concerns within the state. Among other things, the rules require
companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data
in permit applications, provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for
certain wells, and allow the RRC to modify, suspend, or terminate permits on
grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing
seismic activity. Furthermore, in response to recent seismic events near
underground injection wells used for the disposal of oil and gas-related
wastewaters, federal and some state agencies have begun investigating whether
such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have shut
down or imposed moratoria on the use of such injection wells. If new regulatory
initiatives are implemented that restrict or prohibit the use of underground
injection wells in areas where we rely upon the use of such wells in our
operations, our costs to operate may significantly increase, and our ability to
continue production may be delayed or limited, which could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

 

Air emissions. The
federal Clean Air Act (the “CAA”), and comparable state laws regulate emissions
of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the
imposition of other requirements. Federal and state regulatory agencies can
impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air
permits or other requirements of the CAA and associated state laws and
regulations. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop,
stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified
sources.

 





12 








 



For
example, in August 2012, the EPA adopted new rules that make all oil and gas
operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution)
subject to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards (“NSPS”) and
National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (“NESHAPS”) programs. With
regards to production activities, these final rules require, among other
things, the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from three
subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion
operations are conducted: wildcat (exploratory) and delineation gas wells; low
reservoir pressure non-wildcat and non-delineation gas wells; and all “other”
fractured and refractured gas wells. All three subcategories of wells are
currently required to route flow back emissions to a gathering line or be
captured and combusted using a combustion device, such as a flare. However, the
wells in the “other” category are required to use the reduced emission
completion (“REC”) techniques developed in EPA’s Natural Gas STAR program.
Further, the new NESHAPS regulations impose maximum achievable control
technology (“MACT”) standards for those glycol dehydrators and storage vessels
at major sources of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to MACT
standards. Compliance with these requirements could increase our costs of
development and production; however, we do not believe that such requirements
will have a material adverse effect on our operations.

 

Climate change.   In December
2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other
“greenhouse gases”, or GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and the
environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA,
contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes.
Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing
regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA.
The EPA initially adopted two sets of rules regulating GHG emissions under the
CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles
and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large
stationary sources. The EPA’s rules relating to emissions of GHGs are currently
subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far
declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the EPA from implementing, or
requiring state environmental agencies to implement, the rules. Also, the EPA
has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large
GHG emission sources in the United States, including certain onshore oil and
natural gas facilities, on an annual basis.

 

While Congress has from time to time
considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been
significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce emissions of
GHGs in recent years. In the absence of Congressional action, almost one-half
of the states have taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily
through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG
cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring
major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers
of fuels, such as refineries and natural gas processing plants, to acquire and
surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase
is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction
goal.

 

The adoption of legislation or
regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur
increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions
control systems, to acquire emissions allowances, or to comply with new
regulatory or reporting requirements. For example, pursuant to President
Obama’s Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions, the Obama Administration
announced on January 14, 2015, that the EPA is expected to propose in the
summer of 2015 and finalize in 2016 new regulations that will set methane
emission standards for new and modified oil and gas production and natural gas
processing and transmission facilities as part of the Administration’s efforts
to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up to 45 percent from
2012 levels by 2025. Any
such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of
consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently,
legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing
concentrations of GHGs in the earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes
that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and
severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such
effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

 

Hydraulic fracturing.  Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to
stimulate production of oil and/or natural gas from dense subsurface rock
formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water,
sand, and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the
surrounding rock and stimulate production. We routinely use hydraulic
fracturing as part of our operations. The process is typically regulated by
state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal
regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing
activities involving the use of diesel. In addition, in May 2014, the EPA
issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to collect data on chemicals
used in hydraulic fracturing operations under Section 8 of the Toxic
Substances Control Act. To date, no other action has been taken. At the state
level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that
could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction
requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example, New Mexico
adopted hydraulic fracturing fluid disclosure requirements in February 2012 and
in May 2013, and the RRC adopted new rules governing well casing, cementing and
other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not
contaminate nearby water resources in May 



13 








 



2013. We
believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal
requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities.
Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal
restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas
where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply
with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of
exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded
from drilling wells.

 

In addition,
certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus
on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House
Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review
of hydraulic fracturing practices. Additionally, the EPA is performing a study
of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking
water and groundwater resources, and a draft report is expected to be available
for public comment and peer review the first half of 2015. Moreover, the EPA is
developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater
resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these
standards sometime in 2015. Other governmental agencies, including the United
States Department of Energy and the United States Department of the Interior,
are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or
proposed studies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic
fracturing under the federal SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms.

 

To our knowledge,
there have been no citations, suits, or contamination of potable drinking water
arising from our fracturing operations. We do not have insurance policies in
effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to
hydraulic fracturing operations; however, we believe our general liability and
excess liability insurance policies may cover third-party claims related to
hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses in accordance
with, and subject to, the terms of such policies. If new laws or regulations
significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing activities or impose burdens on new
permitting or operating requirements, our ability to utilize hydraulic
fracturing may be curtailed, and this may in turn reduce the amount of oil and
natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves.

 

Endangered species.   The federal
Endangered Species Act (the “ESA”) and analogous state laws regulate activities
that could have an adverse effect on threatened or endangered species. Some of
our drilling operations are conducted in areas where protected species are
known to exist. In these areas, we may be obligated to develop and implement
plans to avoid potential adverse impacts to protected species, and we may be
prohibited from conducting drilling operations in certain locations or during
certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when our operations
could have an adverse effect on the species. It is also possible that a federal
or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain
locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect
on a protected species. The presence of a protected species in areas where we
perform drilling activities could impair our ability to timely complete
drilling and developmental operations and could adversely affect our future
production from those areas. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by
the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is required to make a determination on listing
of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA before the
completion of the agency’s 2017 fiscal year. The designation of previously
unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we or our oil
and natural gas exploration and production customers operate could cause us or
our customers to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures
and could result in delays or limitations in our customers’ performance of
operations, which could reduce demand for our midstream services.

 

National
Environmental Policy Act. Oil
and natural gas exploration and production activities on federal lands are
subject to the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”). NEPA requires
federal agencies, including the Department of Interior, to evaluate major
agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In
the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an environmental
assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts
of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed
environmental impact statement that may be made available for public review and
comment. All of our current exploration and production activities, as well as
proposed exploration and development plans, on federal lands require
governmental permits that are subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process
has the potential to delay or even halt development of some of our oil and
natural gas projects.

 

OSHA and
other laws and regulations. We
are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health
Act (“OSHA”), and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication
standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under the Title III
of CERCLA and similar state statutes require that we organize and/or disclose
information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. Also,
pursuant to OSHA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration has
established a variety of standards relating to workplace exposure to hazardous
substances and employee health and safety. We believe that we are in
substantial compliance with the applicable requirements of OSHA and comparable
laws.

 

We believe that we are in
substantial compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations
applicable to our current operations and that our continued compliance with
existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on 



14 








 



our financial condition and results of operations. For
instance, we did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or
pollution control activities during 2014. Additionally, as of the date of this
report, we are not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will
require material capital expenditures during 2015. However, we cannot assure
you that the passage or application of more stringent laws or regulations in
the future will not have a negative impact on our financial position or results
of operations.

 

Our Employees

 

Our corporate headquarters are located at One Concho
Center, 600 West Illinois Avenue, Midland, Texas 79701. We also maintain
various field offices in Texas and New Mexico. At December 31, 2014, we had
1,022 employees, 338 of whom were employed in field operations. Our future
success will depend partially on our ability to attract, retain and motivate
qualified personnel. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements
and have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. We consider our
relations with our employees to be good. We also utilize the services of
independent contractors to perform various field and other services.

 

Available Information

 

We file or furnish annual,
quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) under the Exchange
Act. The public may read and copy any materials that we file or furnish with
the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington,
D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains a
website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers, including us, that file or furnish
electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file
with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

 

We also make available free of charge through our website, www.concho.com,
our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports
on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

 



15 








 



Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations

 

PV-10

 

PV-10 is derived from the standardized measure
of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP
financial measure. PV-10 is a computation of the standardized measure of
discounted future net cash flows on a pre-tax basis. PV-10 is equal to the
standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at the applicable
date, before deducting future income taxes, discounted at 10 percent. We
believe that the presentation of PV-10 is relevant and useful to investors
because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our
estimated proved reserves prior to taking into account future corporate income
taxes, and it is a useful measure for evaluating the relative monetary
significance of our oil and natural gas assets. Further, investors may utilize
the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our
reserves to other companies. We use this measure when assessing the potential
return on investment related to our oil and natural gas assets. PV-10, however,
is not a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash
flows. Our PV-10 measure and the standardized measure of discounted future net
cash flows do not purport to present the fair value of our oil and natural gas
reserves.

 

The following table provides a reconciliation
of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:




 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  December 31,
  
 

  
  (in millions)
  
 
   
  
 
  2014
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2013
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2012
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  PV-10 
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  11,384.8
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  9,029.5
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  8,327.0
  
 

  
  Present value of future income taxes discounted at 10% 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (3,362.0)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (2,785.1)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (2,538.9)
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows 
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  8,022.8
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  6,244.4
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  5,788.1
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 








16 








 



EBITDAX

 

We define EBITDAX as net income, plus
(1) exploration and abandonments expense, (2) depreciation, depletion
and amortization expense, (3) accretion expense, (4) impairments of
long-lived assets, (5) non-cash stock-based compensation expense, (6) bad
debt expense, (7) (gain) loss on derivatives not designated as hedges, (8) cash
receipts from (payments on) derivatives not designated as hedges, (9) loss on disposition
of assets, net, (10) interest expense, (11) loss on extinguishment of
debt, (12) federal and state income taxes from continuing operations and (13)
similar items listed above that are presented in discontinued operations.
EBITDAX is not a measure of net income or cash flow as determined by GAAP.

 

Our EBITDAX measure provides additional
information which may be used to better understand our operations, and it is
also a material component of one of the financial covenants under our credit
facility. EBITDAX is one of several metrics that we use as a supplemental
financial measurement in the evaluation of our business and should not be
considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, net income, as an
indicator of our operating performance. Certain items excluded from EBITDAX are
significant components in understanding and assessing a company’s financial
performance, such as a company’s cost of capital and tax structure, as well as
the historic cost of depreciable and depletable assets. EBITDAX, as used by us,
may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
We believe that EBITDAX is a widely followed measure of operating performance
and is one of many metrics used by our management team and by other users of
our consolidated financial statements, including by lenders pursuant to a
covenant in our credit facility. For example, EBITDAX can be used to assess our
operating performance and return on capital in comparison to other independent
exploration and production companies without regard to financial or capital
structure, and to assess the financial performance of our assets and our
company without regard to capital structure or historical cost basis. Further,
under our credit facility, an event of default could arise if we were not able
to satisfy and remain in compliance with specified financial ratios, including
the maintenance of a quarterly ratio of total debt to consolidated last twelve
months EBITDAX of no greater than 4.25 to 1.0. Non-compliance with this ratio
could trigger an event of default under our credit facility, which then could
trigger an event of default under our indentures.

 

The following table provides a reconciliation
of net income to EBITDAX:




 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  Years Ended December 31,
  
 

  
  (in thousands)
  
 
   
  
 
  2014
  
 
   
  
 
  2013
  
 
   
  
 
  2012
  
 
   
  
 
  2011
  
 
   
  
 
  2010
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
  Net income
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  538,175
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  251,003
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  431,689
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  548,137
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  204,370
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Exploration and abandonments 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  284,821
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  109,549
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  39,840
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  11,394
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  10,130
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Depreciation, depletion and amortization 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  979,740
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  772,608
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  575,128
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  400,022
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  211,487
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  7,072
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  6,047
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  4,187
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  2,444
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  1,079
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Impairments of long-lived assets 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  447,151
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  65,375
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  439
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  11,614
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Non-cash stock-based compensation 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  47,130
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  35,078
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  29,872
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  19,271
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  12,931
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Bad debt expense 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  870
  
 

  
   
  
 
  (Gain) loss on derivatives not designated as hedges
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (890,917)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  123,652
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (127,443)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  23,350
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  87,325
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Cash receipts from (payments on) derivatives not 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  designated as hedges
  
 
   
  
 
  71,983
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (32,341)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  23,536
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (84,854)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (13,824)
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Loss on disposition of assets, net 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  9,308
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  1,268
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  372
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  1,139
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  58
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Interest expense 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  216,661
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  218,581
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  182,705
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  118,360
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  60,087
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Loss on extinguishment of debt
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  4,316
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  28,616
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Income tax expense from continuing operations 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  317,785
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  118,237
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  251,041
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  261,800
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  101,613
  
 

  
   
  
 
  Discontinued operations 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  -
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (12,081)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  64,701
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  (26,343)
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  55,254
  
 

  
  EBITDAX 
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  2,033,225
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  1,685,592
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  1,475,628
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  1,275,159
  
 
   
  
 
  $
  
 
  742,994
  
 

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 








17 








 



Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

You should consider carefully the following
risk factors together with all of the other information included in this report
and other reports filed with the SEC before investing in our securities. If any
of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial
condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In
that case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose
all or part of your investment.

 

Risks Related to Our Business

 

Oil, natural gas and natural gas liquid prices are volatile. A decline
in oil, natural gas and natural gas liquid prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial
results, cash flow, access to capital and ability to grow.

 

Our future financial
condition, revenues, results of operations, rate of growth and the carrying
value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we
receive for our oil and natural gas production and the prices prevailing from
time to time for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Oil, natural gas,
and natural gas liquid prices historically have been volatile, and are likely
to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical
conditions. This price volatility also affects the amount of cash flow we have available
for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional
capital. The prices for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids are subject to
a variety of factors beyond our control, including:

 

·        
the level of consumer demand for oil, natural gas and natural gas
liquids;

 

·        
the domestic and foreign supply of oil, natural gas, and natural
gas liquids;

 

·        
inventory levels of Cushing, Oklahoma, the benchmark for WTI oil
prices;

 

·        
liquefied natural gas deliveries to and from the United States;

 

·        
commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability
and the availability of refining capacity;

 

·        
the price and level of imports of foreign oil and natural gas;

 

·        
the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries and other oil exporting nations to agree to and maintain oil
price and production controls;

 

·        
domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;

 

·        
the price and availability of alternative fuel sources;

 

·        
weather conditions;

 

·        
political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas
producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa and South America;

 

·        
technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy
supply; 

 

·        
effect of energy conservation efforts;

 

·        
variations between product prices at sales points and applicable
index prices; and

 

·        
worldwide economic conditions.

 

Furthermore, oil and natural gas prices continued to be volatile
in 2014. For example, the NYMEX oil prices in 2014 ranged from a high of
$107.26 to a low of $53.27 per Bbl and the NYMEX natural gas prices in 2014
ranged from a high of $6.15 to a low of $2.89 per MMBtu. Further, the NYMEX oil
prices and NYMEX natural gas prices reached lows of $44.45 per Bbl and $2.58
per MMBtu, respectively, during the period from January 1, 2015 to
February 24, 2015.

 





18 








 



Historically,
approximately 55 to 80 percent of our total natural gas revenues have been
derived from the value of the natural gas liquids contained in our natural gas,
with the remaining portion coming from the
value of the dry natural gas residue. Because of our liquids-rich natural gas
stream and the related value of the natural gas liquids being included in our
natural gas revenues historically, our realized natural gas price (excluding
the effects of derivatives) has reflected a price greater than the related
NYMEX natural gas price. The Mont Belvieu prices for
a blended barrel of natural gas liquids in 2014 ranged from a high of $43.76
per Bbl to a low of $19.99 per Bbl. Further, the Mont Belvieu
price for a blended barrel of natural gas liquids for January 2015 was $18.08
per Bbl.

 

Declines in oil,
natural gas and natural gas liquid prices would not only reduce our revenue,
but could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce
economically. This in turn would lower the amount of oil and natural gas
reserves we could recognize and, as a result, could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the oil and natural gas industry experiences significant price
declines, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our
borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness or obtain additional
capital on attractive terms, all of which can adversely affect the value of our
securities.

 

Future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value
of our proved oil and natural gas properties, which could adversely affect our
results of operations.

 

Declines in commodity prices
may result in having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated
proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of production or economic
factors change, accounting rules may require us to write-down, as a noncash
charge to earnings, the carrying value of our proved oil and natural gas
properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on proved
assets whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our
proved oil and natural gas properties. To the extent such tests indicate a
reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our
oil and natural gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and
therefore require a write-down. We may incur impairment charges in the future,
which could materially adversely affect our results of operations in the period
incurred.

 

Approximately 40.9 percent of our total estimated proved reserves at
December 31, 2014 were undeveloped, and those reserves may not ultimately be
developed.

 

At
December 31, 2014, approximately 40.9 percent
of our total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of
undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful
drilling. Our reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures
and conduct these operations successfully. These assumptions, however, may not
prove correct. Our reserve report at December 31, 2014 includes estimates of
total future development costs over the next five years associated with our
proved undeveloped reserves of approximately $4.2 billion. If we choose not to
spend the capital to develop these reserves, or if we are not otherwise able to
successfully develop these reserves, we will be required to write-off these
reserves. In addition, under the SEC’s reserve rules, because proved
undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells planned to be
drilled within five years of the date of booking, we may be required to
write-off any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed within this
five-year timeframe. For example, as of December 31, 2014, we wrote-off 36.2
MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves because we have deferred development
outside the five-year window as a result of reduced commodity prices. Any such
write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could
reduce the value of our securities.

 

Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities
with many uncertainties that could cause our expenses to increase or production
volumes to decrease, which would reduce our cash flows.

 

Our
future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success
of our exploration and production activities. Our oil and natural gas
exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our
control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially
viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore,
develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the
evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses,
production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often
inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling,
completing, equipping and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling
commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a
particular project uneconomical or less economical than forecasted. Further,
many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following:

 

·        
delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory and
contractual requirements;

 

·        
pressure or irregularities in geological formations;

 





19 








 



·        
shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified
personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;

 

·        
equipment failures or accidents;

 

·        
adverse weather conditions;

 

·        
environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills,
pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive
materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and
completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface
environment;

·        
reductions in oil, natural gas and natural gas liquid prices;

 

·        
limited availability of financing at acceptable terms; 

 

·        
surface access restrictions;

 

·        
loss of title or other title related issues;

 

·        
oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas gathering, transportation
and processing availability restrictions or limitations; and

 

·        
limitations in the market for oil, natural gas and natural gas
liquids.

 

Prolonged decreases in our
drilling program may require us to pay certain non-use fees  or impact our
ability to comply with certain contractual requirements. 

 

Oil
prices declined substantially during the second half of 2014 and have continued
to decline in 2015. In the event that oil and natural gas prices remain
depressed for a sustained period, or continue to further decline, we may
experience significant decreases in drilling activity. Due to the nature
of our drilling programs and the oil and natural gas industry generally, we are
a party to certain agreements that require us to meet various contractual
obligations or require us to utilize a certain amount of goods or services,
including, but not limited to, water commitments, throughput volume commitments
and power commitments. In the event that oil and natural gas prices remain
depressed, and as a result continue to reduce the demand for drilling and
production, this could lead to a decrease in our drilling activity and
production levels, which could, in turn, require us to pay for unutilized goods
or services or impact our ability to meet these contractual obligations.

 

Federal, state
and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing,
as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased
costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect our
production.

Hydraulic
fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate
production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. We routinely utilize
hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion
programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under
pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate
production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas
commissions. However, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority
over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the SDWA’s
Underground Injection Control Program. For example, in May 2014, the EPA
issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to collect data on chemicals
used in hydraulic fracturing operations under Section 8 of the Toxic
Substances Control Act. To date, no other action has been taken.  Also, the
U.S. Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management issued proposed
rules in May 2013 that would update existing regulation of hydraulic fracturing
activities on federal lands, including requirements for chemical disclosure,
well bore integrity and handling of flowback water. A final version of these
rules may be adopted in 2015.

Further,
in August 2012, the EPA adopted new rules that make all oil and gas operations
(production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) subject to
regulation under the NSPS and NESHAPS programs. With regards to production
activities, these final rules require, among other things, the reduction of
volatile organic compound emissions from three subcategories of fractured and
refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted: wildcat
(exploratory) and delineation gas wells; low reservoir pressure non-wildcat and
non-delineation gas wells; and all “other” fractured and refractured gas wells.
All three subcategories of wells are currently required to route flow back
emissions to a 



20 








 



gathering line or be captured and
combusted using a combustion device, such as a flare. However, wells in the
“other” category are required to use the REC techniques developed in EPA’s
Natural Gas STAR program.

In
addition, Congress from time to time has considered the adoption of legislation
to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require
disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Certain
states, including Texas and New Mexico, have adopted, regulations that could
impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, and well construction
requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban
fracturing activities altogether. For
example, New Mexico adopted hydraulic fracturing fluid disclosure requirements
in February 2012, and in May 2013 the RRC adopted new rules governing well
casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing
operations do not contaminate nearby water resources in May 2013. We believe
that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements
for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless,
if new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating
to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we
could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such
requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration,
development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from
drilling wells. 

Certain governmental reviews are either underway
or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic-fracturing
practices. For example, the White House Council on Environmental Quality is
coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic-fracturing practices.
Additionally, the EPA is performing a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic
fracturing activities on drinking water and groundwater resources and a draft
report is expected to be available for public comment and peer review in the
first half of 2015. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations
for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic
fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards sometime in 2015. Also, the United States Department of Energy is conducting an
investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the
environment from drilling using hydraulic-fracturing completion methods. These
ongoing or proposed studies could spur initiatives to further regulate
hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanism.

If new laws
or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted,
such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing
to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic
fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal
legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities
could become subject to additional permitting requirements and could also
result in permitting delays and potential cost increases. Restrictions on
hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that
we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves.

 

Our
operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions
on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Water is an essential component of both
the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have
been able to purchase water from local land owners and other sources for use in
our operations. During 2014, extreme drought conditions persisted in West
Texas and Southeast New Mexico. As a result of this severe drought, some local
water districts may begin restricting the use of water subject to their
jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the
local water supply. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our
operations from local sources, we may be unable to economically produce oil and
natural gas, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.

 

Estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise.
The actual quantities of our proved reserves and our future net cash flows may
prove to be lower than estimated.

 

Numerous
uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net
cash flows therefrom. Our estimates of proved reserves and related future net
cash flows are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be
inaccurate.

 

Petroleum engineering is a
subjective process of estimating accumulations of oil and natural gas that
cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable
oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number
of variable factors and assumptions, including the following:

 

·        
historical production from the area compared with production from
other producing areas;

 

·        
the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;

 





21 








 



·        
the quality, quantity and interpretation of available relevant
data;

 

·        
assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and

 

·        
assumptions concerning future operating costs; severance, ad
valorem and excise taxes; development costs; and workover and remedial costs.

 

Because all reserve
estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items, or other
items not identified below, may differ materially from those assumed in
estimating reserves:

 

·        
the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately
recovered;

 

·        
the production and operating costs incurred;

 

·        
the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and

 

·        
future commodity prices.

 

Furthermore, different
reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based
on the same data. Our actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect
to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be
material.

 

As required by the SEC, the estimated
discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on the average previous
twelve months first-of-month prices preceding the date of the estimate and
costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may
be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be
affected by factors such as:

 

·        
the amount and timing of actual production; 

 

·        
levels of future capital spending;

 

·        
increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, natural
gas liquids and natural gas; and

 

·        
changes in governmental regulations or taxation.

 

Accordingly, estimates included herein
of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash
flows that are ultimately received. Therefore, the estimates of discounted
future net cash flows in this report should not be construed as accurate
estimates of the current market value of our proved reserves.

 

Our business requires substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable
to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which
could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves.

 

The
oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to
continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition,
exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves. At
December 31, 2014, debt outstanding under our credit facility was $139.5
million (and total debt at December 31, 2014 was $3.5 billion), and we had
approximately $2.4 billion of unused commitments under our credit facility. Based
on our current ratio as defined in our credit facility as part of our financial
covenants, at December 31, 2014, our additional borrowings would be limited to
approximately $1.6 billion. Expenditures for acquisition, exploration and
development of oil and natural gas properties are the primary use of our
capital resources. We incurred approximately $2.9 billion in acquisition,
exploration and development activities (excluding asset retirement obligations)
during the year ended December 31, 2014. Under our 2015 capital budget, we
currently intend to invest approximately $2.0 billion for exploration and
development activities and customary acquisition of leasehold acreage.

 

We intend to finance our
future capital expenditures, other than significant acquisitions, through cash
flow from operations and through borrowings under our credit facility; however,
our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization
substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities. The issuance
of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of
our common stock. Additional borrowings under our credit facility or the
issuance of additional debt securities will require that a greater portion of
our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of 



22 








 



interest
and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to
fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. In addition, our
credit facility imposes certain limitations on our ability to incur additional
indebtedness other than indebtedness under our credit facility. If we desire to
issue additional debt securities other than as expressly permitted under our
credit facility, we will be required to seek the consent of the lenders in
accordance with the requirements of the credit facility, which consent may be
withheld by the lenders at their discretion. If we incur certain additional
indebtedness, our borrowing base under our credit facility may be reduced.
Additional financing also may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.
In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail drilling,
development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an
untimely or unfavorable basis.

 

Our cash flow from
operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables,
including:

 

·        
our proved reserves;

 

·        
the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from
existing wells;

 

·        
the prices at which our commodities are sold; 

 

·        
the costs of producing oil and natural gas;

 

·        
global credit and securities markets; 

 

·        
the ability and willingness of lenders and investors to provide
capital and the cost of the capital; and

 

·        
our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.

 

If our revenues or the
borrowing base under our credit facility decrease as a result of lower
commodity prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending
requirements or regulations, or for any other reason, we may have limited
ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current
levels. As a result, we may require additional capital to fund our operations,
and we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable
to us, if at all, to satisfy our capital requirements. If cash generated from
operations or borrowings available under our credit facility is not sufficient
to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing
could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to the development of
our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas
reserves, and could adversely affect our production, revenues and results of
operations.

 

Declining
general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations.

 

In recent years, the global economic
downturn, particularly with respect to the U.S. economy, and the global
financial and credit market disruptions have reduced the availability of
liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial
business operations worldwide resulting in a slowdown in economic activity.
This has reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower commodity
prices.

 

Lower commodity prices will reduce our
cash flows and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or
financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves
as existing reserves are depleted. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the
amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically, which could
ultimately decrease our net revenue and profitability.

 

We have
substantial indebtedness and may incur substantially more debt. Higher levels
of indebtedness make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse
developments in our business. 

 

We had
approximately $3.5 billion of outstanding debt
at December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2014, the borrowing base under our credit
facility was $3.25  billion and commitments
from our bank group totaled $2.5 billion, of which approximately $2.4 billion was unused commitments. Based on our current ratio as defined in our credit
facility as part of our financial covenants, at December 31, 2014, our
additional borrowings would be limited to approximately $1.6 billion.

 

As a result of our indebtedness, we will
need to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest, which will reduce the
amount we will have available to fund our operations and other business
activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to
changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our indebtedness
under our credit facility is 



23 








 



at a variable interest
rate, and so a rise in interest rates will generate greater interest expense to
the extent we do not have applicable interest rate fluctuation hedges. The
amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic
downturns and adverse developments in our business. 

 

We may incur substantially more debt in
the future. The indentures governing our senior notes contain restrictions on
our incurrence of additional indebtedness. These restrictions, however, are
subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain
circumstances, we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in compliance
with these restrictions. Moreover, these restrictions do not prevent us from
incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the indentures.


 

Our ability to meet our debt obligations
and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be
affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many
of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to
service our debt, we may be required to refinance debt, sell assets or sell
additional equity on terms that we may not find attractive if it may be done at
all. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive
covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under that
indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition
and results of operations.

 

Our lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially
impact our operations.

 

At December 31, 2014, we had approximately $139.5 million of outstanding debt
under our credit facility, and our borrowing base was $3.25 billion and
commitments from our bank group totaled $2.5 billion.
The borrowing base under our credit facility is redetermined annually based
upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. In
addition, between redeterminations we and, if requested by 66 2/3 percent of
our lenders, our lenders, may each request one special redetermination. Upon a
redetermination, our borrowing base could be substantially reduced, and in the
event the amount outstanding under our credit facility at any time exceeds the
borrowing base at such time, we may be required to repay a portion of our
outstanding borrowings. We expect to utilize cash flow from operations, bank
borrowings, debt and equity financings and asset sales to fund our acquisition,
exploration and development activities. A reduction in our borrowing base could
limit our activities. In addition, we may significantly alter our
capitalization in order to make future acquisitions or develop our properties.
These changes in capitalization may significantly increase our level of debt.
If we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that
we now face could intensify. A higher level of debt also increases the risk
that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt
obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance
which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and
other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 

 

Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with
respect to environmental and operational safety matters.

 

We may incur significant
delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety
requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration, development and
production, and related saltwater disposal activities. These delays, costs and
liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local laws and
regulations relating to protection of the environment, health and safety,
including regulations and enforcement policies that have tended to become increasingly
strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result
in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition
of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and, in some instances,
issuance of orders or injunctions limiting or requiring discontinuation of
certain operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property,
including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and
safety impacts of our operations.

 

Strict as well as joint and
several liability for a variety of environmental costs may be imposed on us under
certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the
conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in
compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New
laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose
unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. No assurance can
be given that continued compliance with existing or future environmental laws
and regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing
activities or result in a material increase in the costs of production,
development, exploration or processing operations. If
we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased
revenues, our production, revenues and results of operations could be adversely
affected.

 





24 








 



Our producing properties are concentrated in the Permian Basin of
Southeast New Mexico and West Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated
with operating in one major geographic area. In addition, we have a large
amount of proved reserves attributable to a small number of producing horizons
within this area.

 

Our
producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin of
Southeast New Mexico and West Texas. At December 31, 2014, substantially
all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties
located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be
disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors,
delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by
governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints,
market limitations, severe weather events, water shortages or other drought
related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil,
natural gas or natural gas liquids. 

 

In addition to the
geographic concentration of our producing properties described above, at
December 31, 2014, approximately: (i) 30.6 percent
of our proved reserves were attributable to the Yeso formation, which includes
both the Paddock and Blinebry intervals, underlying our oil and natural gas
properties located in Southeast New Mexico; (ii) 26.6 percent
of our proved reserves were attributable to the Bone Spring formation located
in the Delaware Basin; and  (iii) 20.5 percent
of our proved reserves were attributable to the Wolfberry play in West Texas.
This concentration of assets within a small number of producing horizons
exposes us to additional risks, such as changes in field-wide rules and
regulations that could cause us to permanently or temporarily shut-in all of
our wells within a field.

 

We periodically evaluate our unproved oil and natural gas properties for
impairment, and could be required to recognize noncash charges to earnings of
future periods.

 

At December 31, 2014, we carried unproved property costs of $1.1
billion. GAAP requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a
project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. These
evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, intent
of future exploration activities, commodity price circumstances, planned future
sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, future drilling plans, contracts
and permits appurtenant to such projects. Based on our evaluations, we may
determine that we are unable to fully recover the cost invested in each
project, and we will recognize noncash charges to earnings in future periods.

 

Part of our strategy involves exploratory drilling, including drilling
in new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are
uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling
results are unsuccessful.

 

The
results of our exploratory drilling in new or emerging plays are more uncertain
than drilling results in areas that are developed and have established production.
Since new or emerging plays and new formations have limited or no production
history, we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to help
predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost of drilling,
completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially
expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling
results are unsuccessful.

 

Our commodity price risk management program may cause us to forego
additional future profits or result in our making cash payments to our
counterparties.

 

To reduce our exposure to
changes in the prices of commodities, we have entered into and may in the
future enter into additional commodity price risk management arrangements for a
portion of our oil and natural gas production. The agreements that we have
entered into generally have the effect of providing us with a fixed price for a
portion of our expected future oil and natural gas production over a fixed
period of time. Commodity price risk management arrangements expose us to the
risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from increases in
commodity prices in some circumstances, including the following:

 

·        
the counterparty to a commodity price risk management contract may
default on its contractual obligations to us;

 

·        
there may be a change in the expected differential between the
underlying price in a commodity price risk management agreement and actual
prices received; or

 

·        
market prices may exceed the prices which we are contracted to
receive, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments to our
counterparties.

 

Our commodity price risk
management activities could have the effect of reducing our net income and the
value of our securities. At December 31, 2014, the Company had a net derivative
asset of approximately $752.7 million. An
average 



25 








 



increase in the commodity price of $10.00 per
barrel of oil and $1.00 per MMBtu for natural gas from the commodity price at
December 31, 2014 would
have resulted in a decrease in our net asset of approximately $268.8  million. We may continue to incur
significant gains or losses in the future from our commodity price risk
management activities to the extent market prices increase or decrease and our
derivatives contracts remain in place.

 

Our identified inventory of drilling locations and recompletion
opportunities are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to
uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their
drilling.

 

We have identified and scheduled
the drilling of certain of our drilling locations as an estimation of our
future multi-year development activities on our existing acreage. These
identified locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our
ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of
uncertainties, including: (i) our ability to timely drill wells on lands
subject to complex development terms and circumstances; (ii) the
availability of capital, equipment, services and personnel; (iii) weather
conditions; (iv) regulatory and third-party approvals; (v) commodity
prices; (vi) access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution
systems; and (vii) drilling and recompletion costs and results. Additionally,
changes in the laws or regulations on which we rely in planning and executing
our drilling programs could adversely impact our ability to successfully
complete those programs. Because of these and other potential uncertainties, we may never
drill the potential locations we have identified or produce oil or natural gas
from these or any other potential locations. As such, our actual development
activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could
adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations.

 

Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and
production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow, our
ability to raise capital and the value of our securities.

 

Unless we conduct successful
development and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved
reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced.
Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by
declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics
and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and
therefore our cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our
success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically
finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. The value of our
securities and our ability to raise capital will be adversely impacted if we
are not able to replace our reserves that are depleted by production. We may
not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves
to replace our current and future production.

 

The Standardized Measure and PV-10 of
our estimated reserves are not accurate estimates of the current fair value of
our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves.

 

Standardized Measure is a
reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and natural
gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Our non-GAAP
financial measure, PV-10, is a similar reporting convention that we have
disclosed in this report. Both measures require the use of operating and
development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, they
will not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil
and natural gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may it
reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil
and natural gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future
net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that
are ultimately received. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor, which is
required by the rules and regulations of the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes,
may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in
effect from time to time and risks associated with our company or the oil and
natural gas industry in general. Therefore, Standardized Measure or PV-10
included in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the
current fair value of our proved reserves.  

 

Our reserve estimates and
our computation of future net cash flows are based on SEC pricing of (i) $91.48  per
Bbl WTI posted oil price and (ii) $4.35  per MMBtu Henry Hub spot
natural gas price, adjusted for location and quality by property. The SEC
pricing for reserves as of December 31, 2014 is higher than the NYMEX oil price
and NYMEX natural gas price of $49.28 per Bbl and $2.90 per MMBtu,
respectively, at February 24, 2015. If current pricing measures were used,
estimates of our reserves and PV-10 would be lower. For example, if average oil
prices were $10.00 per barrel lower than the average price we used, our PV-10
at December 31, 2014 would have decreased from $11.4 billion
to $9.7 billion. If average natural gas prices were $1.00 per MMBtu
lower than the average price we used, our PV-10 at December 31, 2014,
would have decreased from $11.4 billion to $10.6 billion.
Any
adjustments to the estimates of proved reserves or decreases in the price of
our commodities may decrease the value of our securities. 

 





26 








 



We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully
integrate acquired companies or assets, and any inability to do so may disrupt
our business and hinder our ability to grow.

 

One
aspect of our business strategy calls for acquisitions of businesses or assets
that complement or expand our current business. We may not be able to identify
attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive
candidates, we may not be able to complete the acquisition of them or do so on
commercially acceptable terms.

 

In addition, our credit
facility and the indentures governing our senior notes impose certain
limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions.
Our credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes also limit
our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our
ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses or assets. If we desire to
engage in an acquisition that is otherwise prohibited by our credit facility or
the indentures governing our senior notes, we will be required to seek the
consent of our lenders or the holders of the senior notes in accordance with
the requirements of the credit facility or the indentures, which consent may be
withheld by the lenders under our credit facility or such holders of senior
notes at their sole discretion.

 

If we acquire another
business or assets, we could have difficulty integrating its operations,
systems, management and other personnel and technology with our own. These
difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and
employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of
operations. In addition, we may incur additional debt or issue additional
equity to pay for any future acquisitions, subject to the limitations described
above.

 

Any acquisition we complete is subject to substantial risks that could
adversely affect our business, including the risk that our acquisitions may
prove to be worth less than what we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating
recoverable reserves and could expose us to potentially significant
liabilities.

 

We
obtained a significant portion of our current reserve base through acquisitions
of producing properties and undeveloped acreage. We expect that acquisitions
will continue to contribute to our future growth. In connection with these and
potential future acquisitions, we are often only able to perform limited due
diligence. The
success of any acquisition involves potential risks, including among other
things:

 

·        
the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the
reserves, recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and
future net cash flows attainable from the reserves;

 

·        
the assumption of unknown liabilities, including environmental
liabilities, and losses or costs for which the Company is not indemnified or
for which the indemnity the Company receives is inadequate;

 

·        
the effect on our liquidity or financial leverage of using
available cash or debt to finance acquisitions;

 

·        
the diversion of management's attention from other business
concerns; and

 

·        
an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to
manage and operate our growing business and assets.

 

Successful acquisitions of
oil and natural gas properties require an assessment of a number of factors,
including estimates of recoverable reserves, the timing of recovering reserves,
exploration potential, future commodity prices, operating costs and potential
environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact,
and we cannot make these assessments with a high degree of accuracy. In
connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties
that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. However,
such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition,
our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties
to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every
well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural,
subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise.

 

There
may be threatened, contemplated, asserted or other claims against the acquired
assets related to environmental, title, regulatory, tax, contract, litigation
or other matters of which we are unaware, which could materially and adversely
affect our production, revenues and results of operations. We are sometimes
able to obtain contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities,
including environmental liabilities, but we generally acquire interests in
properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of
representations and warranties. In addition, even when we are able to obtain
such indemnification from the sellers, these indemnification obligations
usually expire over time and expose us to potential unindemnified liabilities,
which could materially adversely affect our production, revenues and results of
operations.

 





27 








 



Shortages of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could
delay our drilling program and increase the prices we pay to obtain such
equipment, services and personnel.

 

The
demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct
field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals
in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in
correlation with commodity prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically,
there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other
oilfield equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with
the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases
in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher commodity prices
generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling and
workover rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. It is
beyond our control and ability to predict whether these conditions will exist
in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. These types
of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin,
cash flow and operating results, or restrict our ability to drill the wells and
conduct the operations which we currently have planned and budgeted or which we
may plan in the future.

 

Our exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially
productive reserves.

 

Drilling
activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially
productive reservoirs will not be encountered. New wells that we drill may not
be productive, or we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in
such wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to
know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present
or may be produced economically. Drilling for oil and natural gas often
involves unprofitable results, not only from dry holes but also from wells that
are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit at
then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The
cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost
factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our drilling
operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous
factors, including:

 

·        
unexpected drilling conditions;

 

·        
title problems;

 

·        
pressure or irregularities in formations;

 

·        
equipment failures or accidents;

 

·        
fracture stimulation accidents or failures;

 

·        
adverse weather conditions;

 

·        
compliance with environmental and other governmental or
contractual requirements; and

 

·        
increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability
of, electricity, water, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs,
equipment and services.

 

We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability
claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may
not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against,
these risks.

 

We
are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from
uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our
business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas
exploration and production activities, including
well stimulation and completion activities such as hydraulic fracturing, are
subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and
producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:

 

·        
environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil,
natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the
environment, including groundwater contamination;

 

·        
abnormally pressured or structured formations;

 

·        
mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service
tools and casing collapse;

 

·        
blowouts, cratering, fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;





28 








 



 

·        
personal injuries and death; and

 

·        
natural disasters.

 

Any of these risks could
adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial
losses to us as a result of:

 

·        
injury or loss of life;

 

·        
damage to and destruction of property and equipment;

 

·        
damage to natural resources due to underground migration of
hydraulic fracturing fluids;

 

·        
pollution and other environmental damage, including spillage or
mishandling of recovered hydraulic fracturing fluids;

 

·        
regulatory investigations and penalties;

 

·        
suspension of our operations; and

 

·        
repair and remediation costs.

 

We may elect not to obtain
insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive
relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks
generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not
covered or not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on
our production, revenues and results of operations.

 

Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it
more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and
secure trained personnel.

 

We operate in a highly
competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas
and securing trained personnel. Some of our competitors possess and employ
financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which
can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies
may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and
exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of
properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In
addition, those companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to
attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to
attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past few years
due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. Our ability to
acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future
will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to
consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is
substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and
natural gas industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future
in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons,
attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. Our
failure to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained
personnel and adequately compensate personnel could have a material adverse
effect on our production, revenues and results of operations.

 

Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to
oil and natural gas markets or delay our production.

 

Market conditions or the
unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas processing or transportation
arrangements may hinder our access to oil, natural gas and natural gas liquid
markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil
and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand
for and supply of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, the proximity of
reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities, competition for such facilities
and the inability of such facilities to gather, transport or process our
production due to shutdowns or curtailments arising from mechanical,
operational or weather related matters, including hurricanes and other severe
weather conditions. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial
part on the availability and capacity of gathering and transportation systems,
pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our
failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We may be required to shut in or otherwise curtail production from wells due to
lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of oil, natural gas 



29 








 



liquid or natural gas pipeline or gathering,
transportation or processing capacity. If that were to occur, then we would be
unable to realize revenue from those wells until suitable arrangements were
made to market our production.

 

We are subject to complex
federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely
affect the cost, timing, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or
that may subject us to fines or penalties for any failure to comply.

 

Our oil and natural gas
exploration, development and production, and related saltwater disposal
operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order
to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we
must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from
various federal, state, local and governmental authorities. We may incur
substantial costs and experience delays in order to maintain compliance with
these existing laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with the existing
laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs, including fines and
penalties, in order to come back into compliance. In addition, our costs of
compliance may increase or our operations may be otherwise adversely affected
if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted or if the
government agencies responsible for enforcing certain existing laws and
regulations applicable to us change their priorities or policies, or if new
laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. These and other costs
could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of
operations.

 

Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect
to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a
result of future legislation.

 

President
Obama’s budget proposal for the fiscal year 2016 recommends the
elimination of certain key United States federal income tax preferences
currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies
and legislation has been introduced in Congress that would implement many of
these proposals. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal
of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii)
the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development
costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production
activities and (iv) the increase in the amortization period from two years to
seven years for geophysical costs paid or incurred by independent producers in
connection with the exploration for, or development of, oil or natural gas
within the United States.

 

It is unclear whether any such changes
will actually be enacted or, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become
effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal,
tax reform efforts, or any other similar change in United States federal income
tax law could affect certain tax deductions that are currently available to us
with respect to our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities.

 

Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of
“greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand
for the crude oil and natural gas that we produce.

 

In December
2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other
GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because
emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of
the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the
EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs
under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA recently adopted two sets of
rules regulating GHG emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction
in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates
emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources. The EPA’s rules
relating to emissions of GHGs, including emissions, from large stationary
sources are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal
courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the EPA from
implementing, or requiring state environmental agencies to implement, the
rules. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions
from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including
certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis.

 

While Congress has from time to time
considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been
significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce emissions of
GHGs in recent years. In the absence of Congressional action, almost one-half
of the states have taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily
through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG
cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring
major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers
of fuels, such as refineries and natural gas processing plants, to acquire and
surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase
is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction
goal.

 

The adoption of
legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us
to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate
emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or to 



30 








 



comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. For example,
pursuant to President Obama’s Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions, the Obama
Administration announced on January 14, 2015, that the EPA is expected to
propose in the summer of 2015 and finalize in 2016 new regulations that will
set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and gas production and
natural gas processing and transmission facilities as part of the
Administration’s efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas
sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. Any such
legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming,
and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produced.
Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs
could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded
that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth’s atmosphere may produce
climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased
frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic
events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on
our financial condition and results of operations.

 

The adoption of
derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability
to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest
rate and other risks associated with our business.

 

Congress adopted
comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight
and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities,
including us, which participate in that market. This legislation, known as the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), became
law on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission
(the “CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the
Act. Although the CFTC has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be
finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when
this will be accomplished. In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set
position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy
markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position
limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia in September 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new
rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and
equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities,
subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new
position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is
uncertain at this time. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and
credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will
require us, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with
clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption
to such requirements. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception
from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commercial
risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution
requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the
cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, for
uncleared swaps, the CFTC or federal banking regulators may require end-users
to enter into credit support documentation and/or post initial and variation
margin. Posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available
to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute
hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flows. The proposed margin rules are not
yet final, and therefore the impact of those provisions is uncertain at this
time. The Act also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments
to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which
may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. 

 

The full impact of the Act and related
regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until the regulations
are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Act
and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative
contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the
availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our
ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts or
increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use
of derivatives as a result of the Act and regulations implementing the Act, our
results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less
predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund
capital expenditures. Finally, the Act was intended, in part, to reduce the
volatility of commodity prices, which some legislators attributed to
speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and
natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a
consequence of the Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity
prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us,
our financial condition and our results of operations.





31 








 



 

The loss of our chief executive officer or other key personnel could
negatively impact our ability to execute our business strategy.

 

We
depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable future, on the services
of our chief executive officer, Timothy A. Leach, and other officers and key
employees who have extensive experience and expertise in evaluating and
analyzing producing oil and natural gas properties and drilling prospects,
maximizing production from oil and natural gas properties, marketing oil and
natural gas production, and developing and executing acquisition, financing and
hedging strategies. Our ability to hire and retain our officers and key
employees is important to our continued success and growth. The unexpected loss
of the services of one or more of these individuals could negatively impact our
ability to execute our business strategy.

 

Because we do not operate and therefore control the
development of certain of the properties in which we own interests, we may not
be able to produce economic quantities of oil and natural gas in a timely
manner. 

 

At December 31, 2014, approximately 8.5 percent
of our proved reserves were attributable to properties for which we were not
the operator. As a result, the success and timing of drilling and development
activities on such nonoperated properties depend upon a number of factors,
including:

 

·        
the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities;

 

·        
the timing and amount of capital expenditures;

 

·        
the operators’ expertise and financial resources;

 

·        
the approval of other participants in such properties; and

 

·        
the selection and application of suitable technology.

 

If drilling and development
activities are not conducted on these properties or are not conducted on a
timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal
production declines or we will be required to write-off the reserves
attributable thereto, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and
results of operations. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our
ability to borrow money and could reduce the value of our securities

 

Uncertainties associated with enhanced recovery methods may result in us
not realizing an acceptable return on our investments in such projects.

 

We inject water into
formations on some of our properties to increase the production of oil and
natural gas. We may in the future expand these efforts to more of our
properties or employ other enhanced recovery methods in our operations. The
additional production and reserves, if any, attributable to the use of enhanced
recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict. If our enhanced recovery
methods do not allow for the extraction of oil and natural gas in a manner or
to the extent that we anticipate, we may not realize an acceptable return on our
investments in such projects.

 

Part of our
strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and
completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their
application.

 

Our operations
involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques. Risks
that we face while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to,
the following:

 

·        
landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone;

 

·        
staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally
through the formation;

 

·        
running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and

 

·        
being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through
the horizontal wellbore.

 

Risks that we face while completing
wells include, but are not limited to, the following:

 





32 








 



·        
the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;

 

·        
the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during
completion operations; and

 

·        
the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after
completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.

 

A terrorist or cyber-attack or
armed conflict could harm our business by decreasing our revenues and
increasing our costs.

 

Terrorist activities,
anti-terrorist efforts, cyber-attacks and other armed conflict involving the
United States may adversely affect the United States and global economies and
could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of
these events occur or escalate, the resulting political instability and
societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas,
potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our production and causing
a reduction in our revenue. Oil and natural gas related facilities could be
direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely
impacted if significant infrastructure or facilities used for the production,
transportation, processing or marketing of oil and natural gas production are
destroyed or damaged. Additionally,
as an oil and natural gas producer, we may face various cybersecurity threats,
including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to
render data or systems unusable, and there can be no assurance that our
implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate
security threats will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring.
Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of
these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain,
if available at all.

 

Cybersecurity
breaches and information technology failures could harm our business by
increasing our costs and negatively impacting our operations. 

 

We rely
extensively on information technology systems, including Internet sites, data
hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted
by third parties, to assist in conducting our business. Our information
technology systems, as well as those of third parties we use in our operations,
may be vulnerable to a variety of cybersecurity risks, such as those involving
unauthorized access, malicious software, data privacy breaches by employees or
others with authorized access, cyber or phishing-attacks and other security
issues. 

 

Although we have implemented information
technology controls and systems that are designed to protect information and
prevent or minimize the risk of data loss and other cybersecurity risks, such
measures cannot entirely eliminate cybersecurity threats, and the enhanced
controls we have installed may be breached or may fail. If our information
technology systems cease to function properly or our cybersecurity is breached,
we could suffer disruptions to our operations and unauthorized persons may gain
access to proprietary or confidential information, which could result in loss
or disclosure of, or damage to, our or any of our customer’s or supplier’s data
or confidential information; misuse or misappropriation of data, funds or other
property; and other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks.
This could harm our business by damaging our reputation, subjecting us to
potential financial or legal liability, and requiring us to incur significant
costs, including costs to repair or restore the security of our internal
systems or to take other remedial steps.





33 








 



Risks
Related to Our Common Stock

 

Our restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law
contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals,
which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

 

Our
restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to
issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors
elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party
to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of
incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a
third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be
beneficial to our stockholders, including:

 

·        
the organization of our board of directors as a classified board,
which allows no more than approximately one-third of our directors to be
elected each year;

 

·        
stockholders cannot remove directors from our board of directors
except for cause and then only by the holders of not less than 66 2/3 percent
of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock;

 

·        
the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; and

 

·        
limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special
meetings and establish advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and
nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at
meetings of stockholders.

 

Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors
must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us.

 

We do not anticipate paying
any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently
intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our
business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our
board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings,
financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and
contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other
considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Covenants contained
in our credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict
the payment of dividends. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock
after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a
return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not
purchase our common stock.

 

The availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the
market price of our common stock.

 

In the future, we may issue
securities to raise cash for acquisitions. We may also acquire interests in
other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our
common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into, or exchangeable
for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. Any of these
events may dilute your ownership interest in our company, reduce our earnings
per share and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.

 

In addition, sales of a
substantial amount of our common stock in the public market, or the perception
that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock.
This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale
of our securities.

 

The market price and trading volume of our common
stock may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders.

 

The market price of our common stock may
be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading
volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause price variations to occur.
The market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in
the future. If the market price of our common stock declines, you may be unable
to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price. Some of
the factors that could negatively affect the price of our common stock, or
result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock,
include:

 

·        
fluctuations
in the price of oil or natural gas;

 

·        
variations
in our quarterly operating results or failure to meet analysts’ earnings
expectations;

 





34 








 



·        
publication
of negative research reports about us or the oil and natural gas industry or
adverse publicity about the oil and natural gas industry;

 

·        
adverse
market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in
the future or actions by our stockholders;

 

·        
sales
of a large number of our common stock or the perception that such sales could
occur; 

 

·        
changes
in market valuations of similar companies;

 

·        
the
effects of government regulation, permitting and other legal requirements,
including new legislation or regulation of hydraulic fracturing and the export
of oil and natural gas;

 

·        
litigation
and governmental investigations; and

 

·        
general
economic and business conditions, either internationally or domestically.

 

Item 1B