Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Relating to
    Our Business — Market conditions or operational
    impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets
    or delay our production.”


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2007, revenues from oil and
    natural gas sales to Navajo Refining Company, L.P. and DCP
    Midstream, LP, formerly Duke Energy Field Services, accounted
    for approximately 60% and 23%, respectively, of our total
    operating revenues. While the loss of either of these purchasers
    may result in a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower
    price for, our production, we believe that the loss of either of
    these purchasers would not have a material adverse effect on our
    operations, as there are alternative purchasers in our producing
    regions.


 



    Competition


 


    The oil and natural gas industry in the regions in which we
    operate is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition
    from numerous parties, ranging generally from small independent
    producers to major integrated oil companies. We primarily
    encounter significant competition in acquiring properties,
    contracting for drilling and workover equipment and securing
    trained personnel. Many of these competitors have financial and
    technical resources and staffs substantially larger than ours.
    As a result, our competitors may be able to pay more for
    desirable properties, or to evaluate, bid for and purchase a
    greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or
    personnel resources will permit.


 


    We are also affected by competition for drilling rigs and the
    availability of related equipment. The oil and natural gas
    industry periodically experiences shortages of drilling and
    workover rigs, equipment, pipe, materials and personnel, which
    can delay developmental drilling, workover and exploitation
    activities and cause significant price increases. The current
    shortage of personnel has also made it difficult to attract and
    retain personnel with experience in the oil and gas industry and
    has caused us to increase our general and administrative budget.
    We are unable to predict the nature, timing or duration of any
    such shortages.


 


    Competition is also strong for attractive oil and natural gas
    producing properties, undeveloped leases and drilling rights,
    and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete
    satisfactorily. Although we regularly evaluate acquisition
    opportunities and submit bids as part of our growth strategy, we
    do not have any current agreements, understandings or
    arrangements with respect to any material acquisition.


 



    Applicable
    Laws and Regulations



 



    Regulation
    of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry


 


    Regulation of transportation of oil.  Sales of
    crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently
    regulated and are made at negotiated prices. Nevertheless,
    Congress could reenact price controls in the future.


 


    Our sales of crude oil are affected by the availability, terms
    and cost of transportation. The transportation of oil in common
    carrier pipelines is also subject to rate regulation. The
    Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or the “FERC,”
    regulates interstate oil pipeline transportation rates under the
    Interstate Commerce Act. In general, interstate oil pipeline
    rates must be just and reasonable based on cost, although
    settlement rates agreed to by all shippers are permitted and
    market-based rates may be permitted in certain circumstances.
    Effective January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations
    establishing an indexing system that enables interstate oil
    pipelines to change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels
    that are tied to an inflation index. The FERC’s indexing



    
    8



Table of Contents




    methodology is subject to review every five years; the current
    methodology is expected to remain in place through June 30,
    2011.  Intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are subject
    to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for
    intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory
    oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates,
    varies from state to state. Insofar as effective interstate and
    intrastate rates are equally applicable to all comparable
    shippers, we believe that the regulation of oil transportation
    rates will not affect our operations in any way that is of
    material difference from those of our competitors.


 


    Further, interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines
    must provide service on a non-discriminatory basis. Under this
    open access standard, common carriers must offer service to all
    similarly situated shippers requesting service on the same terms
    and under the same rates. When oil pipelines operate at full
    capacity, access is governed by prorationing provisions set
    forth in the pipelines’ published tariffs. Accordingly, we
    believe that access to oil pipeline transportation services
    generally will be available to us to the same extent as to our
    competitors.


 


    Regulation of transportation and sale of natural
    gas.  Historically, the transportation and sale
    for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce have been
    regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the Natural
    Gas Policy Act of 1978 and regulations issued under those Acts
    by the FERC. In the past, the federal government has regulated
    the prices at which natural gas could be sold. While sales by
    producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled
    market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the
    future. Deregulation of wellhead natural gas sales began with
    the enactment of the Natural Gas Policy Act. In 1989, Congress
    enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act which removed all
    Natural Gas Act and Natural Gas Policy Act price and non-price
    controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective
    January 1, 1993.


 


    The FERC regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates
    and service conditions, which affects the marketing of natural
    gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for
    sales of our natural gas. Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to
    make natural gas transportation more accessible to natural gas
    buyers and sellers on an open and non-discriminatory basis. The
    FERC has stated that open access policies are necessary to
    improve the competitive structure of the interstate natural gas
    pipeline industry and to create a regulatory framework that will
    put natural gas sellers into more direct contractual relations
    with natural gas buyers by, among other things, unbundling the
    sale of natural gas from the sale of transportation and storage
    services. Beginning in 1992, the FERC issued Order No. 636
    and a series of related orders to implement its open access
    policies. As a result of the Order No. 636 program, the
    marketing and pricing of natural gas have been significantly
    altered. The interstate pipelines’ traditional role as
    wholesalers of natural gas has been eliminated and replaced by a
    structure under which pipelines provide transportation and
    storage service on an open access basis to others who buy and
    sell natural gas. Although the FERC’s orders do not
    directly regulate natural gas producers, they are intended to
    foster increased competition within all phases of the natural
    gas industry.


 


    In 2000, the FERC issued Order No. 637 and subsequent
    orders, which imposed a number of additional reforms designed to
    enhance competition in natural gas markets. Among other things,
    Order No. 637 effected changes in FERC regulations relating
    to scheduling procedures, capacity segmentation, penalties,
    rights of first refusal and information reporting. Most
    pipelines’ tariff filings to implement the requirements of
    Order No. 637 have been accepted by the FERC and placed
    into effect.


 


    We cannot accurately predict whether the FERC’s actions
    will achieve the goal of increasing competition in markets in
    which our natural gas is sold. Additional proposals and
    proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are
    pending before the FERC and the courts. The natural gas industry
    historically has been very heavily regulated. Therefore, we
    cannot provide any assurance that the less stringent regulatory
    approach recently established by the FERC will continue.
    However, we do not believe that any action taken will affect us
    in a way that materially differs from the way it affects other
    natural gas producers.


 


    Gathering service, which occurs upstream of jurisdictional
    transmission services, is regulated by the states onshore and in
    state waters. Although its policy is still in flux, the FERC has
    reclassified certain jurisdictional transmission facilities as
    non-jurisdictional gathering facilities, which has the tendency
    to increase our costs of getting gas to point of sale locations.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    Intrastate natural gas transportation is also subject to
    regulation by state regulatory agencies. The basis for
    intrastate regulation of natural gas transportation and the
    degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate
    natural gas pipeline rates and services varies from state to
    state. Insofar as such regulation within a particular state will
    generally affect all intrastate natural gas shippers within the
    state on a comparable basis, we believe that the regulation of
    similarly situated intrastate natural gas transportation in any
    states in which we operate and ship natural gas on an intrastate
    basis will not affect our operations in any way that is of
    material difference from those of our competitors. Like the
    regulation of interstate transportation rates, the regulation of
    intrastate transportation rates affects the marketing of natural
    gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for
    sales of our natural gas.


 


    Regulation of Production.  The production of
    oil and natural gas is subject to regulation under a wide range
    of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders and
    regulations. Federal, state and local statutes and regulations
    require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and
    reports concerning operations. All of the states in which we own
    and operate properties have regulations governing conservation
    matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of
    oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum
    allowable rates of production from oil and natural gas wells,
    the regulation of well spacing, and the plugging and abandonment
    of wells. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amount
    of oil and natural gas that we can produce from our wells and to
    limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can
    drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such regulations
    or to have reductions in well spacing. Moreover, each state
    generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to
    the production and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas
    liquids within its jurisdiction. The failure to comply with
    these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties.
    Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject
    to the same regulatory requirements and restrictions that affect
    our operations.


 



    Environmental,
    Health and Safety Matters


 


    General.  Our operations are subject to
    stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and
    regulations governing environmental protection as well as the
    discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and
    regulations may, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    require the acquisition of various permits before drilling
    commences;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various
    substances that can be released into the environment in
    connection with oil and natural gas drilling and production, and
    saltwater disposal activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying
    within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and




 



     
        • 

    
    require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and
    ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug
    abandoned wells.





 


    These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of
    oil and natural gas production below the rate that would
    otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas
    industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry
    and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, Congress
    and federal and state agencies frequently revise environmental
    laws and regulations, and any changes that result in more
    stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup
    requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a
    significant impact on our operating costs.


 


    The following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules
    and regulations to which our business operations are subject and
    with which compliance may have a material adverse effect on our
    capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.


 


    Waste Handling.  The Resource Conservation and
    Recovery Act, or “RCRA”, and comparable state
    statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment,
    storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous
    wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental
    Protection Agency, or “EPA”, the individual states
    administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in
    conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements.
    Drilling fluids, produced waters, and most of the other wastes
    associated with the exploration, development, and production of
    crude oil or natural gas are currently regulated under
    RCRA’s non-hazardous waste



    
    10



Table of Contents




    provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural
    gas exploration and production wastes now classified as
    non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the
    future. Any such change could result in an increase in our costs
    to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    position.


 


    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
    Liability Act.  The Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or “CERCLA”,
    also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several
    liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on
    classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the
    release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These
    persons include the owner or operator of the site where the
    release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the
    disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under
    CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several
    liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances
    that have been released into the environment, for damages to
    natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies.
    In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and
    other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and
    property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances
    released into the environment.


 


    We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that
    have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and
    production for many years. Although we believe that we have
    utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were
    standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances,
    wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the
    properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other
    locations, including off-site locations, where such substances
    have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of our
    properties have been operated by third parties or by previous
    owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous
    substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control.
    These properties and the substances disposed or released on them
    may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws. Under
    such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed
    substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property, or
    perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent
    future contamination.


 


    Water Discharges.  The Federal Water Pollution
    Control Act, or the “Clean Water Act”, and analogous
    state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls with respect
    to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of
    oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The
    discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited,
    except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the
    EPA or an analogous state agency. Federal and state regulatory
    agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties
    for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements
    of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations.


 


    Air Emissions.  The federal Clean Air Act, and
    comparable state laws, regulate emissions of various air
    pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the
    imposition of other requirements. In addition, the EPA has
    developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations
    governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified
    sources. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose
    administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance
    with air permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Air
    Act and associated state laws and regulations.


 


    In response to recent studies suggesting that emissions of
    certain gases, referred to as “greenhouse gases” and
    including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to
    warming of the Earth’s atmosphere, the current session of
    the U.S. Congress is considering climate change-related
    legislation to restrict greenhouse gas emissions. One bill
    recently approved by the U.S. Senate Environment and Public
    Works Committee, known as the
    Lieberman-Warner
    Climate Security Act or S.2191, would require a 70% reduction in
    emissions of greenhouse gases from sources within the United
    States between 2012 and 2050. The Lieberman-Warner bill proposes
    a “cap and trade” scheme of regulation of greenhouse
    gas emissions — a ban on emissions above a defined
    reducing annual cap. Covered parties will be authorized to emit
    greenhouse emissions through the acquisition and subsequent
    surrender of emission allowances that may be traded or acquired
    on the open market. Debate and a possible vote on this bill by
    the full Senate are anticipated to occur before mid-year 2008.
    In addition, at least one-third of the states have already taken
    legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases,
    primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas
    emission inventories
    and/or
    regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Depending on the
    particular program, we could be required to purchase and
    surrender allowances, either for greenhouse gas emissions
    resulting from our operations or from combustion of fuels we
    produce.



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision
    on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA,
    and certain provisions of the Clean Air Act, the EPA may
    regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions from
    mobile sources such as cars and trucks, even if Congress does
    not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of
    greenhouse gases. The EPA has publicly stated its goal of
    issuing a proposed rule to address carbon dioxide and other
    greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles and automobile fuels but
    the timing for issuance of this proposed rule is unsettled as
    the agency reviews its mandates under the Energy Independence
    and Security Act of 2007, which includes expanding the use of
    renewable fuels and raising the corporate average fuel economy
    standards. The Court’s holding in Massachusetts that
    greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide fall under the Clean
    Air Act’s definition of “air pollutant” may also
    result in future regulation of carbon dioxide and other
    greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources under certain
    Clean Air Act programs. New federal or state laws requiring
    adoption of a stringent greenhouse gas control program or
    imposing restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide in areas of
    the United States in which we conduct business could adversely
    affect our cost of doing business and demand for our products.


 


    National Environmental Policy Act.  Oil and
    natural gas exploration and production activities on federal
    lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, or
    “NEPA.” NEPA requires federal agencies, including the
    Department of Interior, to evaluate major agency actions having
    the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the
    course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an
    environmental assessment that assesses the potential direct,
    indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if
    necessary, will prepare a more detailed environmental impact
    statement that may be made available for public review and
    comment. All of our current exploration and production
    activities, as well as proposed exploration and development
    plans, on federal lands require governmental permits that are
    subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the
    potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas
    projects.


 


    OSHA and Other Laws and Regulation.  We are
    subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety
    and Health Act, or “OSHA”, and comparable state
    statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA
    community right-to-know regulations under the Title III of
    CERCLA and similar state statutes require that we organize
    and/or
    disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced
    in our operations. We believe that we are in substantial
    compliance with these applicable requirements and with other
    OSHA and comparable requirements.


 


    We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all
    existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to our
    current operations and that our continued compliance with
    existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on
    our financial condition and results of operations. For instance,
    we did not incur any material capital expenditures for
    remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Additionally, as of the date of this
    annual report, we are not aware of any environmental issues or
    claims that will require material capital expenditures during
    2008. However, we cannot assure you that the passage of more
    stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have an
    negative impact on our financial position or results of
    operation. For instance, the New Mexico Oil Conservation
    Division is considering amending or replacing an existing rule
    regulating the permitting, construction, operation and closure
    of oilfield pits at well sites in New Mexico. If the agency
    adopts a new or revised pit rule that imposes stricter
    requirements on the construction and use of oilfield pits, then
    it is possible that the cost to operate our wells in New Mexico
    could increase.


 



    Our
    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we employed 113 employees,
    including 44 in drilling and production, 16 in financial and
    accounting, 20 in land, 14 in exploration, 7 in reservoir
    engineering and 12 in administration. Of these, 86 worked in our
    Midland, Texas headquarters and 27 were in our field operations.
    Our future success will depend partially on our ability to
    attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are not a
    party to any collective bargaining agreements and have not
    experienced any strikes or work stoppages. We consider our
    relations with our employees to be satisfactory. We also utilize
    the services of independent contractors to perform various field
    and other services.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 



    Available
    Information


 


    We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy
    statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (the “SEC”) under the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). The public may read
    and copy any materials that we file with or furnish to the SEC
    at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The
    public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
    Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers, including Concho, that file electronically
    with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file
    with the SEC at
    http://www.sec.gov.


 


    We also make available free of charge through our internet
    website (www.conchoresources.com) our annual report, Quarterly
    Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or
    furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as
    soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth
    below as well as the other information contained in this annual
    report. Any of the following risks could materially and
    adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. In such case, you may lose all or part of your
    investment. The risks described below are not the only risks
    facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently
    known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also
    materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or
    results of operations.


 



    Risks
    Relating to Our Business


 



    Oil
    and natural gas prices are volatile. A decline in oil and
    natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial
    position, financial results, cash flow, access to capital and
    ability to grow.


 


    Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations,
    rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas
    properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our
    oil and natural gas production and the prices prevailing from
    time to time for oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices
    historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be
    volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical
    conditions. This price volatility also affects the amount of our
    cash flow we have available for capital expenditures and our
    ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The prices
    for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the level of consumer demand for oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability,
    and the availability of refining capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and level of imports of foreign oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum
    Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and
    production controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuel sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas
    producing regions, including the Middle East and South America;




 



     
        • 

    
    technological advances affecting energy consumption; and




 



     
        • 

    
    worldwide economic conditions.






    
    13



Table of Contents



 


    Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce our
    revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that
    we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and reserves. If the oil and natural gas industry
    experiences significant price declines, we may, among other
    things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing
    capacity, repay current or future indebtedness or obtain
    additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect
    the value of our common stock.


 


    Furthermore, recent oil prices have been high compared to
    historical prices and have been particularly volatile. For
    example, the NYMEX crude oil price per Bbl was $95.98, $61.15
    and $61.04 as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. In addition, natural gas prices have been subject
    to significant fluctuations during the past several years. For
    example, the NYMEX natural gas Henry Hub spot price per MMbtu
    was $6.80, $5.64 and $10.08 as of December 31, 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively.


 



    Drilling
    for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities
    with many uncertainties that could cause our expenses to
    increase or our cash flows and production volumes to
    decrease.


 


    Our future financial condition and results of operations will
    depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration,
    development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas
    exploration and production activities are subject to numerous
    risks, including the risk that drilling will not result in
    commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions
    to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or
    properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data
    obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production
    data and engineering studies, the results of which are often
    inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a
    discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see
    “— Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions
    that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in
    these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could
    materially affect the quantities and present value of our
    reserves.” Our cost of drilling, completing, equipping and
    operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences.
    Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make
    a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may
    curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory
    and contractual requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in geological formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified
    personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    reductions in oil and natural gas prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    surface access restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    title problems; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.





 



    Reserve
    estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be
    inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates
    or underlying assumptions could materially reduce the estimated
    quantities and present value of our reserves.


 


    The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is
    complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data
    and many estimates, including estimates based upon assumptions
    relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in
    these interpretations or estimates could materially reduce the
    estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this
    annual report. See “Item 2. Properties — Our
    Oil and Natural Gas Reserves” for information about our oil
    and natural gas reserves.


 


    In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production
    rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also
    analyze available geological, geophysical, production and
    engineering data. The extent, quality and



    
    14



Table of Contents




    reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires
    economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas
    prices, drilling and operating expenses, the amount and timing
    of capital expenditures, taxes and the availability of funds.


 


    Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues,
    taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and
    quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most
    likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance
    could materially affect the estimated quantities and present
    value of reserves shown in this annual report. For example, in
    connection with the preparation of our total estimated net
    proved reserves as of December 31, 2007, we revised our
    estimated natural gas equivalent reserves downward by
    19,168 MMcfe from our previous estimates. This reduction in
    reserves was primarily due to reduction in forecasted future
    performance and other revisions to proved properties existing at
    December 31, 2006, conversion of producing wells to water
    injection wells on a pilot waterflood on our Shelf Properties,
    and dry holes drilled during 2007. In addition, we may adjust
    estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history,
    results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and
    natural gas prices and other factors.


 


    It should not be assumed that the present value of future net
    revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this annual
    report is the current market value of our estimated oil and
    natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we
    generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows
    from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the
    estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially
    from those used in the present value estimate. The present value
    of future net revenues from our proved reserves as of
    December 31, 2007 referred to in this annual report was
    based on a $92.50 per Bbl Plains Marketing, L.P. West Texas
    Intermediate posted price for oil and a $6.80 per MMBtu Henry
    Hub spot price for natural gas. If oil prices were $1.00 per Bbl
    lower than the price we used, our
    PV-10 as of
    December 31, 2007, would have decreased from
    $2,138.5 million to $2,116.1 million. If natural gas
    prices were $0.10 per Mcf lower than the price we used, our
    PV-10 as of
    December 31, 2007, would have decreased from
    $2,138.5 million to $2,127.7 million. Any adjustments
    to the estimates of proved reserves or decreases in the price of
    oil or natural gas may decrease the value of our common stock.


 



    Almost
    all of our producing properties are located in the Permian Basin
    region of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas, making us
    vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major
    geographic area. In addition, a substantial portion of our
    proved reserves as of December 31, 2007, are from a single
    producing horizon within this area.


 


    Our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the
    Permian Basin region of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas. At
    December 31, 2007, approximately 99% of our
    PV-10 was
    attributable to properties located in the Permian Basin. As a
    result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately
    exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors,
    delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by
    significant governmental regulation, processing or
    transportation capacity constraints, market limitations,
    curtailment of production or interruption of the processing or
    transportation of oil and natural gas produced from the wells in
    these areas.


 


    In addition to the geographic concentration of our producing
    properties described above, approximately 58% of our proved
    reserves as of December 31, 2007, were attributable to the
    Yeso formation, which includes both the Paddock and Blinebry
    intervals, underlying our oil and gas properties located in
    Southeast New Mexico. This concentration of assets within one
    producing horizon exposes us to risks such as changes in
    field-wide rules and regulations that could cause us to
    permanently or temporarily shut-in all of our wells within the
    field. Furthermore, we are in the process of drilling and
    completing wells in the Blinebry interval (the lower member of
    the Yeso formation), which lies beneath the Paddock interval on
    certain of our properties located in Southeast New Mexico. These
    activities could result in delays in the production of our
    proved reserves from the Paddock interval in the event that
    commingling of both formations is imprudent or otherwise not
    feasible.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Part
    of our strategy involves exploratory drilling, including
    drilling in new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling
    results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our
    undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are
    unsuccessful.


 


    The results of our exploratory drilling in new or emerging areas
    are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are
    developed and have established production. Since new or emerging
    plays and new formations have limited or no production history,
    we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to
    help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost
    of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may
    be higher than initially expected, and the value of our
    undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are
    unsuccessful.


 



    Our
    commodity price risk management program may cause us to forego
    additional future profits or result in our making cash payments
    to our counterparties.


 


    To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and
    natural gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter
    into additional commodity price risk management arrangements for
    a portion of our oil and natural gas production. The agreements
    that we have entered into generally have the effect of providing
    us with a fixed price for a portion of our expected future oil
    and natural gas production over a fixed period of time.
    Commodity price risk management arrangements expose us to the
    risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from
    increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances,
    including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the counterparty to a commodity price risk management contract
    may default on its contractual obligations to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    there may be a change in the expected differential between the
    underlying price in a commodity price risk management agreement
    and actual prices received; or




 



     
        • 

    
    market prices may exceed the prices which we are contracted to
    receive, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments
    to our counterparty.





 


    Our commodity price risk management activities could have the
    effect of reducing our revenues, net income and the value of our
    common stock. As of December 31, 2007, the net unrealized
    loss on our commodity price risk management contracts was
    approximately $45.1 million. An average increase in the
    commodity price of $1.00 per barrel of crude oil and $0.10 per
    Mcf for natural gas from the commodity prices as of
    December 31, 2007 would have resulted in an increase in the
    net unrealized loss on our commodity price risk management
    contracts, as reflected on our balance sheet as of
    December 31, 2007, of approximately $2.7 million. We
    may continue to incur significant unrealized losses in the
    future from our commodity price risk management activities to
    the extent market prices continue to increase and our
    derivatives contracts remain in place. See “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Commodity Derivatives and Hedging.”


 



    If we
    enter into derivative instruments that require us to post cash
    collateral, our cash otherwise available for use in our
    operations would be reduced, which could limit our ability to
    make future capital expenditures.


 


    The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting
    of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into
    derivative instruments that require cash collateral and
    commodity prices change in a manner adverse to us, our cash
    otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced,
    which could limit our ability to make future capital
    expenditures. Future collateral requirements will depend on
    arrangements with our counterparties and highly volatile oil and
    natural gas prices.


 



    Our
    business requires substantial capital expenditures. We may be
    unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory
    terms or at all, which could lead to a decline in our oil and
    natural gas reserves.


 


    The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make
    and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures
    in our business for the acquisition, exploration and development
    of oil and natural gas reserves. For example, during the first
    three months of 2007, we curtailed our drilling program in order
    to preserve liquidity



    
    16



Table of Contents




    until we could complete our second lien term loan facility. As
    of December 31, 2007, our total debt outstanding was
    $327.4 million, and $209.0 million was available to be
    borrowed under our revolving credit facility. Expenditures for
    exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties
    are the primary use of our capital resources. We invested
    approximately $183 million in 2007 and anticipate investing
    approximately $250 million in 2008 for acquisition,
    exploration and development activities on our properties. See
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Liquidity and Capital Resources — Future Capital
    Expenditures and Commitments.”


 


    We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily
    through cash flow from operations and through borrowings under
    our revolving credit facility; however, our financing needs may
    require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially
    through the issuance of debt or equity securities. The issuance
    of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on
    the value of outstanding common stock. Additional borrowings
    under our revolving credit facility or the issuance of
    additional debt will require that a greater portion of our cash
    flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and
    principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash
    flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and
    acquisitions. In addition, our bank credit facilities impose
    certain limitations on our ability to incur additional
    indebtedness other than indebtedness under our revolving credit
    facility. If we desire to issue additional debt securities other
    than as expressly permitted under our bank credit facilities, we
    will be required to seek the consent of the lenders in
    accordance with the requirements of those facilities, which
    consent may be withheld by the lenders under our bank credit
    facilities in their discretion. Additional financing also may
    not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In the event
    additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail
    drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell
    some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis.


 


    Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject
    to a number of variables, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our proved reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from
    existing wells;




 



     
        • 

    
    the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold; and




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.





 


    If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit
    facility decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas
    prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending
    requirements or regulations, or for any other reason, we may
    have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain
    our operations at current levels. As a result, we may require
    additional capital to fund our operations, and we may not be
    able to obtain debt or equity financing to satisfy our capital
    requirements. If cash generated from operations or cash
    available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient
    to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain
    additional financing could result in a curtailment of our
    operations relating to development of our prospects, which in
    turn could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas
    reserves, and could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition or results of operations.


 



    Our
    identified inventory of drilling locations and recompletion
    opportunities are scheduled out over several years, making them
    susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the
    occurrence or timing of their drilling.


 


    Our management has specifically identified and scheduled the
    drilling and recompletion of our drilling and recompletion
    opportunities as an estimation of our future multi-year
    development activities on our existing acreage. As of
    December 31, 2007, we had identified 1,659 drilling
    locations with proved undeveloped reserves attributable to 627
    of such locations, and 878 recompletion opportunities with
    proved undeveloped reserves attributed to 375 of such
    opportunities. These identified opportunities represent a
    significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill
    and develop these opportunities depends on a number of
    uncertainties, including the availability of capital, equipment,
    services and personnel, seasonal conditions, regulatory and
    third party approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs and
    drilling and recompletion results. Because of these
    uncertainties, we may never drill or recomplete the numerous
    potential opportunities we have identified or produce oil or
    natural gas from these or any other



    
    17



Table of Contents




    potential opportunities. As such, our actual development
    activities may materially differ from those presently
    identified, which could adversely affect our business.


 



    Approximately
    46% of our total estimated net proved reserves as of
    December 31, 2007, were undeveloped, and those reserves may
    not ultimately be developed.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, approximately 46% of our total
    estimated net proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of
    undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures
    and successful drilling. Our reserve data assumes that we can
    and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations
    successfully. These assumptions, however, may not prove correct.
    If we choose not to spend the capital to develop these reserves,
    or if we are not able to successfully develop these reserves, we
    will be required to write-off these reserves. Any such
    write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow
    money and could reduce the value of our common stock.


 



    Because
    we do not control the development of the properties in which we
    own interests, but do not operate, we may not be able to achieve
    any production from these properties in a timely
    manner.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, approximately 10% of our
    PV-10 was
    attributable to properties for which we were not the operator.
    As a result, the success and timing of drilling and development
    activities on such nonoperated properties depend upon a number
    of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing and amount of capital expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    the operators’ expertise and financial resources;




 



     
        • 

    
    the approval of other participants in such properties; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the selection of suitable technology.





 


    If drilling and development activities are not conducted on
    these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may
    be unable to increase our production or offset normal production
    declines, which may adversely affect our production, revenues
    and results of operations.


 



    Unless
    we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and
    production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash
    flow, our ability to raise capital and the value of our common
    stock.


 


    Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and
    exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved
    reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are
    produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are
    characterized by declining production rates that vary depending
    upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil
    and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash
    flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our
    success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current
    reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional
    recoverable reserves. The value of our common stock and our
    ability to raise capital will be adversely impacted if we are
    not able to replace our reserves that are depleted by
    production. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or
    acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current
    and future production.


 



    We may
    be unable to make attractive acquisitions or integrate acquired
    companies, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business
    and hinder our ability to grow through the acquisition of
    businesses.


 


    One aspect of our business strategy calls for acquisitions of
    businesses that complement or expand our current business. We
    may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities.


 


    Even if we do identify attractive candidates, we may not be able
    to complete the acquisition of them or do so on commercially
    acceptable terms.


 


    In addition, our bank credit facilities impose certain direct
    limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination
    transactions involving our company. Our bank credit facilities
    also limit our ability to incur certain



    
    18



Table of Contents




    indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage
    in acquisitions of businesses. If we desire to engage in an
    acquisition that is otherwise prohibited by our bank credit
    facilities, we will be required to seek the consent of the
    lenders in accordance with the requirements of those facilities,
    which consent may be withheld by the lenders under our bank
    credit facilities in their discretion.


 


    If we acquire another business, we could have difficulty
    integrating its operations, systems, management and other
    personnel and technology with our own. These difficulties could
    disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and
    employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our
    results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional debt
    or issue additional equity to pay for any future acquisitions,
    subject to the limitations described above.


 



    Properties
    acquired may prove to be worth less than we paid because of
    uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential
    liabilities.


 


    We obtained the majority of our current reserve base through
    acquisitions of producing properties and undeveloped acreage. We
    expect acquisitions will continue to contribute to our future
    growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a
    number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves,
    exploration potential, future oil and gas prices, operating
    costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such
    assessments are inexact and we cannot make these assessments
    with a high degree of accuracy. In connection with our
    assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties.
    However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential
    problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become
    sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their
    deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well.
    Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover
    structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist
    or arise.


 


    We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for
    preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities.
    Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as
    is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of
    representations and warranties.


 



    Competition
    in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more
    difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural
    gas and secure trained personnel.


 


    We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring
    properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained
    personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial,
    technical and personnel resources substantially greater than
    ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which
    we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for
    productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory
    prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number
    of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel
    resources permit. In addition, those companies may be able to
    offer better compensation packages to attract and retain
    qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to
    attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the
    past few years due to competition and may increase substantially
    in the future. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and
    to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our
    ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to
    consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment.
    Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for
    investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We may not be
    able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring
    prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing
    hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and
    raising additional capital. Our failure to acquire properties,
    market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel and
    increased compensation for trained personnel could have a
    material adverse effect on our business.


 



    Shortages
    of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could
    delay our drilling program and increase the prices we pay to
    obtain such equipment, services and personnel.


 


    The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to
    drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists,
    geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and
    natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in
    correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic
    shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling
    rigs and other oilfield equipment as demand for rigs and
    equipment has increased along with the number of wells being
    drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs
    for equipment,



    
    19



Table of Contents




    services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices
    generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for
    drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and
    services. It is beyond our control and ability to predict
    whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so,
    what their timing and duration will be. These types of shortages
    or price increases could significantly decrease our profit
    margin, cash flow and operating results, or restrict our ability
    to drill the wells and conduct the operations which we currently
    have planned and budgeted or which we may plan in the future.


 



    Our
    exploration and development drilling may not result in
    commercially productive reserves.


 


    Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the
    risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be
    encountered. New wells that we drill may not be productive, or
    we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such
    wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not
    allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil
    or natural gas is present or may be produced economically.
    Drilling for oil and natural gas often involves unprofitable
    efforts, not only from dry holes but also from wells that are
    productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return
    a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling,
    operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and
    operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can
    adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our
    drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a
    result of numerous factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    title problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or lost circulation in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    compliance with environmental and other governmental or
    contractual requirements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or
    workover rigs, equipment and services.





 



    We may
    incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability
    claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. In
    addition, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be
    inadequate to protect us against, these risks.


 


    We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities
    arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially
    and adversely affect our business, financial condition or
    results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and
    production activities are subject to all of the operating risks
    associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas,
    including the possibility of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil,
    natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution
    into the environment, including groundwater contamination;




 



     
        • 

    
    abnormally pressured or structured formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and
    service tools and casing collapse;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;




 



     
        • 

    
    personal injuries and death; and




 



     
        • 

    
    natural disasters.





 


    Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct
    operations or result in substantial losses to our company as a
    result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    injury or loss of life;




 



     
        • 

    
    damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and
    equipment;






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pollution and other environmental damage;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory investigations and penalties;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspension of our operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    repair and remediation costs.





 


    We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost
    of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks
    presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks
    generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event
    that is not covered or not fully covered by insurance could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
    or results of operations.


 



    Market
    conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to
    oil and natural gas markets or delay our
    production.


 


    Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and
    natural gas processing or transportation arrangements may hinder
    our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our
    production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and
    natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including
    the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the
    proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our
    ability to market our production depends in substantial part on
    the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines
    and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties.
    Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations. We may be required to shut
    in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability
    of crude oil or natural gas pipeline or gathering system or
    processing capacity. If that were to occur, then we would be
    unable to realize revenue from those wells until suitable
    arrangements were made to market our production.


 



    We are
    subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and
    regulations that could adversely affect the cost, timing, manner
    or feasibility of conducting our operations.


 


    Our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production,
    and saltwater disposal operations are subject to complex and
    stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our
    operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we
    must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and
    certificates from various federal, state, local and governmental
    authorities. We may incur substantial costs and experience
    delays in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws
    and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may
    increase or our operations may be otherwise adversely affected
    if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted,
    or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our
    operations. For instance, the New Mexico Oil Conservation
    Division is considering amending or replacing an existing rule
    regulating the permitting, construction, operation and closure
    of oilfield pits at well sites in New Mexico. If the agency
    adopts a new or revised pit rule that imposes stricter
    requirements on the construction and use of oilfield pits, then
    it is possible that the cost to operate our wells in New Mexico
    could increase. These and other future costs could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
    results of operations.


 


    Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and
    regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental
    authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the
    exploration for, and the production of, oil and natural gas.
    Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted
    and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition or results of operations.  See
    “Item 1. Business — Applicable Laws and
    Regulations” for a description of certain laws and
    regulations that affect us.


 



    Our
    operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with
    respect to environmental and operational safety
    matters.


 


    We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a
    result of environmental, health and safety requirements
    applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration, development
    and production, and saltwater disposal activities. These delays,
    costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal,
    state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of
    the environment, health and safety, including regulations and
    enforcement policies that have tended to become increasingly
    strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and
    regulations



    
    21



Table of Contents




    may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and
    criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration
    costs and liens, and, to a lesser extent, issuance of
    injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims
    for damages to persons or property, including natural resources,
    may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of
    our operations.


 


    Strict as well as joint and several liability may be imposed
    under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become
    liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own
    actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the
    time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or
    enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose
    unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance
    costs. If we were not able to recover the resulting costs
    through insurance or increased revenues, our business, financial
    condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.
    See “Item 1. Business — Applicable Laws
    and Regulations — Environmental, Health and Safety
    Matters” for more information.


 



    The
    loss of our chief executive officer or our chief operating
    officer or other key personnel could negatively impact our
    ability to execute our business strategy.


 


    We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable
    future, on the services of Timothy A. Leach, our chairman of the
    board and chief executive officer, Steven L. Beal, our president
    and chief operating officer, our other executive officers and
    our key employees who have extensive experience and expertise in
    evaluating and analyzing producing oil and natural gas
    properties and drilling prospects, maximizing production from
    oil and natural gas properties, marketing oil and gas
    production, and developing and executing acquisition, financing
    and hedging strategies. Our ability to hire and retain our
    officers and key employees is important to our continued success
    and growth. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more
    of these individuals could negatively impact our ability to
    execute our business strategy.


 



    Uncertainties
    associated with enhanced recovery methods may result in us not
    realizing an acceptable return on the investments we make to use
    such methods.


 


    We inject water into formations on some of our properties to
    increase the production of oil and natural gas. We may in the
    future expand these efforts to more of our properties or employ
    other enhanced recovery methods in our operations. The
    additional production and reserves attributable to the use of
    enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict.
    If our enhanced recovery methods do not allow for the extraction
    of oil and natural gas in a manner or to the extent that we
    anticipate, we may not realize an acceptable return on the
    investments we make to use such methods.


 



    Our
    indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more
    vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.


 


    We now have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of
    indebtedness, and the terms of our revolving credit facility
    require us to pay higher interest rate margins as we utilize a
    larger percentage of our available borrowing base. As of
    December 31, 2007, our total debt was $327.4 million.
    At December 31, 2007, our revolving credit facility bore
    interest at a rate of 6.16% per annum and our second lien term
    loan facility bore interest at 9.23% per annum. Assuming our
    total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2007 was held
    constant throughout the year, if interest rates had been higher
    or lower by 1% per annum, interest expense for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 would have increased or decreased by
    approximately $3.3 million. As of December 31, 2007,
    our total borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility
    was $425.0 million, of which $209.0 million was
    available.


 


    Our current and future indebtedness could have important
    consequences to you. For example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to make investments and obtain additional
    financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
    acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
    our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of
    these funds to make principal and interest payments on our
    indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to borrow funds that may be necessary to
    operate or expand our business;






    
    22



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have
    less debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    hinder our ability to adjust to rapidly changing economic and
    industry conditions.





 


    Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations may
    depend in significant part on the extent to which we can
    successfully implement our business strategy. We may not be able
    to implement or realize the benefits of our business strategy.


 



    Our
    existing bank credit facilities impose restrictions on us that
    may affect our ability to successfully operate our
    business.


 


    Our bank credit facilities limit our ability to take various
    actions, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incurring additional indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    paying dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    creating certain additional liens on our assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    entering into sale and leaseback transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    making investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    entering into transactions with affiliates;




 



     
        • 

    
    making material changes to the type of business we conduct or
    our business structure;




 



     
        • 

    
    making guarantees;




 



     
        • 

    
    disposing of assets in excess of certain permitted amounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    merging or consolidating with other entities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    selling all or substantially all of our assets.





 


    In addition, our bank credit facilities require us to maintain
    certain financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial
    conditions, which may require us to reduce our debt or take some
    other action in order to comply with each of them.


 


    These restrictions could also limit our ability to obtain future
    financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a
    downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise
    conduct necessary corporate activities. We also may be prevented
    from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise
    because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive
    covenants under each of our bank credit facilities.


 



    A
    terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business by
    decreasing our revenues and increasing our costs.


 


    Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed
    conflict involving the United States may adversely affect the
    United States and global economies and could prevent us from
    meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these
    events occur or escalate, the resulting political instability
    and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and
    natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for
    our services and causing a reduction in our revenue. Oil and
    natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of
    terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely
    impacted if significant infrastructure or facilities we use for
    the production, transportation or marketing of our oil and
    natural gas production are destroyed or damaged. Costs for
    insurance and other security may increase as a result of these
    threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult
    to obtain, if available at all.



    
    23



Table of Contents



 



    Risks
    Relating to Our Common Stock


 



    Our
    certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain
    provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger
    proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our
    common stock.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of
    directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval.
    If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it
    could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In
    addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation,
    bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third
    party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control
    would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the organization of our board of directors as a classified
    board, which allows no more than approximately one-third of our
    directors to be elected each year;




 



     
        • 

    
    stockholders cannot remove directors from our board of directors
    except for cause and then only by the holders of not less than
    662/3%
    of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    the prohibition of stockholder action by written
    consent; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special
    meetings and establish advance notice provisions for stockholder
    proposals and nominations for elections to the board of
    directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.





 



    Because
    we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock,
    stockholders must look solely to stock appreciation for a return
    on their investment in us.


 


    We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common
    stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain
    all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our
    business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the
    discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among
    other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital
    requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual
    restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other
    considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. The
    terms of our existing bank credit facilities restrict the
    payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the
    lenders. Stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock
    after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way
    to realize a return on their investment.


 



    The
    availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the
    market price of our common stock.


 


    In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for
    acquisitions, the payment of our indebtedness or other purposes.
    We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a
    combination of cash and our common stock or just our common
    stock. We may also issue securities convertible into our common
    stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in
    our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our
    common stock.


 


    In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock
    in the public market, or the perception that these sales may
    occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This
    could also impair our ability to raise additional capital
    through the sale of our securities.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B