ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS






Risk Factors Relating to Delta




Our business and results of operations are dependent on the price and availability of aircraft
fuel. High fuel costs or cost increases could have a materially adverse effect on our operating
results. Likewise, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel would materially
adversely affect our operations and operating results.


     Our operating results are significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of
aircraft fuel. Fuel prices have increased substantially since the middle part of the last decade
and spiked at record high levels in 2008 before falling dramatically during the latter part of
2008. In 2009, our average fuel price per gallon was $2.15. In 2008, our average fuel price per
gallon was $3.16, a 41% increase from an average price of $2.24 in 2007, which in turn was
significantly higher than fuel prices just a few years earlier. Fuel costs represented 29%, 38%,
and 31% of our operating expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Total operating expense for
2008 reflects a $7.3 billion non-cash charge from an impairment of goodwill and other intangible
assets and $1.1 billion in primarily non-cash merger-related charges. Including these charges, fuel
costs accounted for 28% of total operating expense in 2008. Fuel costs have had a significant
negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.


     Our ability to pass along the increased costs of fuel to our customers is limited by the
competitive nature of the airline industry. We often have not been able to increase our fares to
offset the effect of increased fuel costs in the past and we may not be able to do so in the
future.


     In addition, our aircraft fuel purchase contracts do not provide material protection against
price increases or assure the availability of our fuel supplies. We purchase most of our aircraft
fuel under contracts that establish the price based on various market indices. We also purchase
aircraft fuel on the spot market, from offshore sources and under contracts that permit the
refiners to set the price. In an effort to manage our exposure to changes in fuel prices, we use
derivative instruments, which are comprised of crude oil, heating oil and jet fuel swap, collar and
call option contracts, though we may not be able to successfully manage this exposure. Depending on
the type of hedging instrument used, our ability to benefit from declines in fuel prices may be
limited.


     We are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, but it is impossible to
predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. Weather-related events, natural
disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in governmental
policy concerning aircraft fuel production, transportation or marketing, changes in aircraft fuel
production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in additional
fuel supply shortages and fuel price increases in the future. Additional increases in fuel costs or
disruptions in fuel supplies could have additional negative effects on us.



The global economic recession has resulted in weaker demand for air travel and may create
challenges for us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.


     As the effects of the global economic recession have been felt in our domestic and
international markets, we have experienced significantly weaker demand for air travel. Our demand
began to slow during the December 2008 quarter and global economic conditions in 2009 substantially
reduced U.S. airline industry revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. As a result, we reduced our
consolidated capacity by 6% in 2009 compared to the combined capacity of Delta and Northwest during
2008. Demand for air travel could remain weak if an economic recovery is slow or even fall further
if a recession returns, and overall demand could fall lower than we are able prudently to reduce
capacity. The weakness in the United States and international economies is having a significant
negative impact on our results of operations and could continue to have a significant negative
impact on our future results of operations.



The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways
that we currently cannot predict.


     The credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue
to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. In particular, the financial crisis
and economic downturn resulted in broadly lower
investment asset returns and values, including in the defined benefit pension plans that we
sponsor for eligible employees and


13




Table of Contents





retirees. As of December 31, 2009, the defined benefit pension
plans had an estimated benefit obligation of approximately $17.0 billion and were funded through
assets with a value of approximately $7.6 billion. We estimate that our funding requirements for
our defined benefit pension plans, which are governed by ERISA and have been frozen for future
accruals, are approximately $720 million in 2010. The significant level of required funding is due
primarily to the decline in the investment markets in 2008, which negatively affected the value of
our pension assets. Estimates of pension plan funding requirements can vary materially from actual
funding requirements because the estimates are based on various assumptions concerning factors
outside our control, including, among other things, the market performance of assets; statutory
requirements; and demographic data for participants, including the number of participants and the
rate of participant attrition. Results that vary significantly from our assumptions could have a
material impact on our future funding obligations.



Our obligation to post collateral in connection with our fuel hedge contracts may have a
substantial impact on our short-term liquidity.


     Under fuel hedge contracts that we may enter into from time to time, counterparties to those
contracts may require us to fund the margin associated with any loss position on the contracts. For
example, at December 31, 2008, our counterparties required us to fund $1.2 billion of fuel hedge
margin. However, at December 31, 2009, counterparties were required to fund us a net $10 million.
If fuel prices fall significantly below the levels at the time we enter into hedging contracts, we
may be required to post a significant amount of collateral, which could have an impact on the level
of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.



Our substantial indebtedness may limit our financial and operating activities and may adversely
affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.


     We have substantial indebtedness, which could:






     
    •
     
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to
the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available
for operations and future business opportunities;



     

     
    •
     
    make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment and other obligations
under our indebtedness;



     

     
    •
     
    limit our ability to borrow additional money for working capital,
restructurings, capital expenditures, research and development, investments, acquisitions
or other purposes, if needed, and increasing the cost of any of these borrowings;



     

     
    •
     
    make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or
catastrophic external events;



     

     
    •
     
    limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures;



     

     
    •
     
    reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business and
economic conditions; and/or



     

     
    •
     
    limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic
conditions, including increased competition and demand for new services, placing us at a
disadvantage when compared to our competitors that have less debt, and making us more
vulnerable than our competitors who have less debt to a downturn in our business, industry
or the economy in general.





     In addition, a substantial level of indebtedness, particularly because substantially all of
our assets are currently subject to liens, could limit our ability to obtain additional financing
on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate
purposes. We have historically had substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business.
These liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions,
industry trends, performance and many other factors not within our control.


14




Table of Contents




Agreements governing our debt, including credit agreements and indentures, include financial and
other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations.


     Our credit facilities and indentures for secured notes have various financial and other
covenants that require us to maintain, depending on the particular agreement, minimum fixed charge
coverage ratios, minimum unrestricted cash reserves and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios. The
value of the collateral that has been pledged in each facility may change over time, including due
to factors that are not under our control, resulting in a situation where we may not be able to
maintain the collateral coverage ratio. In addition, the credit facilities and indentures contain
other negative covenants customary for such financings. If we fail to comply with these covenants
and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result. These covenants
are subject to important exceptions and qualifications.


     The credit facilities and indentures also contain other events of default customary for such
financings. If an event of default were to occur, the lenders or the trustee could, among other
things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, and our cash may become restricted. We cannot
provide assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance the borrowings or
notes under any of the credit facilities if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default.
In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under any of the credit facilities
or the indentures could also result in an event of default under other of our financing agreements.



Employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations.


     Our business is labor intensive, utilizing large numbers of pilots, flight attendants and
other personnel. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 39% of our workforce was unionized. Strikes
or labor disputes with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct
business. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the
Railway Labor Act, which provides that a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a
labor union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. The Railway Labor
Act generally prohibits strikes or other types of self-help actions both before and after a
collective bargaining agreement becomes amendable, unless and until the collective bargaining
processes required by the Railway Labor Act have been exhausted.


     In addition, if we or our affiliates are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized
work groups on future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements or
if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions
or stoppages, subject to the requirements of the Railway Labor Act. Likewise, if third party
regional carriers with whom we have contract carrier agreements are unable to reach agreement with
their unionized work groups on current or future negotiations regarding the terms of their
collective bargaining agreements, those carriers may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages,
subject to the requirements of the Railway Labor Act, which could have a negative impact on our
operations.



The ability to realize fully the anticipated benefits of our merger with Northwest may depend on
the successful integration of the businesses of Delta and Northwest.


     Our merger with Northwest involved the combination of two companies which operated as
independent public companies prior to the merger. We are devoting significant attention and
resources to integrating our business practices and operations in order to achieve the benefits of
the merger, including expected synergies. If we are unable to integrate our business practices and
operations in a manner that allows us to achieve the anticipated revenue and cost synergies, or if
achievement of such synergies takes longer or costs more than expected, the anticipated benefits of
the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. In
addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees,
diversion of management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in
our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of
which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or
our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or
otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. We expect to incur total cash costs
of approximately $500 million over approximately three years to integrate the two airlines.


15




Table of Contents




Completion of the integration of the Delta and NWA workforces may present significant challenges.


     The successful integration of the pre-merger Northwest operations into Delta and achievement
of the anticipated benefits of the combination depend significantly on integrating the pre-merger
Delta and NWA employee groups and on maintaining productive employee relations. While integration
of a number of the workgroups (including pilots and aircraft maintenance technicians) has been
successfully completed, completion of the integration of certain workgroups (including flight
attendants, airport employees and reservations employees) of the two pre-merger airlines will
require the resolution of potentially difficult issues, including but not limited to the process and
timing for determining whether the combined post-merger workgroups wish to have union
representation. Unexpected delay, expense or other challenges to integrating the workforces could
impact the expected synergies from the merger and affect our financial performance.



Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports could have a material adverse
impact on our operations.


     Our business is heavily dependent on our operations at the Atlanta airport and at our other
hub airports in Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis/St. Paul, New York-JFK, Salt Lake City,
Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Amsterdam and Tokyo-Narita. Each of these hub operations includes flights
that gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region surrounding the hub to
other major cities and to other Delta hubs. A significant interruption or disruption in service at
the Atlanta airport or at one of our other hubs could have a serious impact on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.



We are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations, and if our technology fails or we
are unable to continue to invest in new technology or integrate the systems and technologies of
Delta and Northwest, our business may be adversely affected.


     We have become increasingly dependent on technology initiatives to reduce costs and to enhance
customer service in order to compete in the current business environment. For example, we have made
significant investments in delta.com, check-in kiosks and related initiatives. The performance and
reliability of the technology are critical to our ability to attract and retain customers and our
ability to compete effectively. These initiatives will continue to require significant capital
investments in our technology infrastructure. If we are unable
to make these investments, our business and operations could be negatively affected. In addition,
we may face challenges associated with integrating complex systems and technologies that supported
the separate operations of Delta and Northwest. If we are unable to manage these challenges
effectively, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected.


     In addition, any internal technology error or failure or large scale external interruption in
technology infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, may
disrupt our technology network. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of technology could
impact our customer service and result in increased costs. Our technology systems and related data
may be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption due to events beyond our control,
including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses,
hackers and other security issues. While we have in place, and continue to invest in, technology
security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures may not be adequate or implemented
properly to prevent a business disruption and its adverse financial consequences to our business.



If we experience losses of senior management personnel and other key employees, our operating
results could be adversely affected.


     We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and other key
employees to execute our business plans. If we experience a substantial turnover in our leadership
and other key employees, our performance could be materially adversely impacted. Furthermore, we
may be unable to attract and retain additional qualified executives as needed in the future.


16




Table of Contents




Our credit card processors have the ability to take significant holdbacks in certain
circumstances. The initiation of such holdbacks likely would have a material adverse effect on
our liquidity.


     Most of the tickets we sell are paid for by customers who use credit cards. Our credit card
processing agreements provide that no holdback of receivables or reserve is required except in
certain circumstances, including if we do not maintain a required level of unrestricted cash. If
circumstances were to occur that would allow American Express or our Visa/MasterCard processor to
initiate a holdback, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be material.



We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving our aircraft.


     An aircraft crash or other accident could expose us to significant tort liability. The
insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the
event that the insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an
accident. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate or an aircraft that is
operated by an airline that is one of our codeshare partners could create a public perception that
our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers
being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and harm our business.



Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S.
federal income tax purposes is subject to limitation.


     In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation
that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its
pre-change net operating losses (“NOLs”), to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership
change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders (generally 5% shareholders,
applying certain look-through rules) increases by more than 50 percentage points over such
stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years).


     As of December 31, 2009, Delta reported a consolidated federal and state NOL carryforward of
approximately $17.3 billion. Both Delta and Northwest experienced an ownership change in 2007 as a
result of their respective plans of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As
a result of the merger, Northwest experienced a subsequent ownership change. Delta also experienced
a subsequent ownership change on December 17, 2008 as a result of the merger, the issuance of
equity to employees in connection with the merger and other transactions involving the sale of our
common stock within the testing period.


     The Delta and Northwest ownership changes resulting from the merger could limit the ability to
utilize pre-change NOLs that were not subject to limitation, and could further limit the ability to
utilize NOLs that were already subject to limitation. Limitations imposed on the ability to use
NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than
otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire
unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Similar rules and
limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. NOLs generated subsequent to December 17, 2008
are not limited.



Our merger with Northwest affects the comparability of our historical financial results.


     On October 29, 2008, a subsidiary of Delta merged with and into Northwest. Our historical
financial results under GAAP include the results of Northwest for periods after October 29, 2008,
but not for periods before October 29, 2008. Accordingly, while our financial results for the year
ended December 31, 2009 include the results of Northwest for the entire period, our financial
results for the year ended December 31, 2008 include the results of Northwest only for the period
from October 30 to December 31, 2008. This complicates your ability to compare our results of
operations and financial condition for periods that include Northwest’s results with periods that
do not.


17




Table of Contents






Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry




The airline industry is highly competitive and, if we cannot successfully compete in the
marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely
affected.


     We face significant competition with respect to routes, services and fares. Our domestic
routes are subject to competition from both new and established carriers, some of which have lower
costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. In particular, we
face significant competition at our hub airports in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis,
Minneapolis/St. Paul, New York-JFK, Salt Lake City, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Amsterdam and
Tokyo-Narita either directly at those airports or at the hubs of other airlines that are located in
close proximity to our hubs. We also face competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from
regional jet operators.


     Low-cost carriers, including Southwest, AirTran and JetBlue, have placed significant
competitive pressure on us in the United States and on other network carriers in the domestic
market. In addition, other network carriers have also significantly reduced their costs over the
last several years. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain
a competitive cost structure. If we cannot maintain our costs at a competitive level, then our
business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In
light of increased jet fuel costs and other issues in recent years, we expect consolidation to
occur in the airline industry. As a result of consolidation, we may face significant competition
from larger carriers that may be able to generate higher amounts of revenue and compete more
efficiently.


     In addition, we compete with foreign carriers, both on interior U.S. routes, due to marketing
and codesharing arrangements, and in international markets. Through marketing and codesharing
arrangements with U.S. carriers, foreign carriers have obtained access to interior U.S. passenger
traffic. Similarly, U.S. carriers have increased their ability to sell international
transportation, such as transatlantic services to and beyond European cities, through alliances
with international carriers. International marketing alliances formed by domestic and foreign
carriers, including the Star Alliance (among United Airlines, Continental, Lufthansa German
Airlines and others) and the oneworld Alliance (among American Airlines, British Airways and
others) have also significantly increased competition in international markets. The adoption of
liberalized Open Skies Aviation Agreements with an increasing number of countries around the world,
including in particular the Open Skies agreement between the United States and the Member States of
the European Union, has accelerated this trend. Similarly, the recent Open Skies agreement between
the United States and Japan could significantly increase competition among carriers serving those
markets.



The rapid spread of contagious illnesses can have a material adverse effect on our business and
results of operations.


     The rapid spread of a contagious illness, such as the H1N1 flu virus, can have a material
adverse effect on the demand for worldwide air travel and therefore have a material adverse effect
on our business and results of operations. Acceleration of the spread of H1N1 during the flu
season in the Northern Hemisphere could have a significant adverse impact on the demand for air
travel and as a result our financial results in addition to the impact that we experienced during
the spring of 2009. Moreover, our operations could be negatively affected if employees are
quarantined as the result of exposure to a contagious illness. Similarly, travel restrictions or
operational problems resulting from the rapid spread of contagious illnesses in any part of the
world in which we operate may have a materially adverse impact on our business and results of
operations.



Terrorist attacks or international hostilities may adversely affect our business, financial
condition and operating results.


     The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 caused fundamental and permanent changes in the
airline industry, including substantial revenue declines and cost increases, which resulted in
industry-wide liquidity issues. Additional terrorist attacks or fear of such attacks, even if not
made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect us and the airline industry. The
potential negative effects include increased security, insurance and other costs and lost revenue
from increased ticket refunds and decreased ticket sales. Our financial resources might not be
sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international
hostilities involving the United States.


18




Table of Contents




The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and new regulations may
increase our operating costs.


     Airlines are subject to
extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in
significant costs. For instance, the FAA from time to time
issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that
necessitate significant expenditures. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the
FAA’s regulations.


     Other laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have also been imposed from time
to time that significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For example,
the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which became law in November 2001, mandates the
federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements
on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per ticket tax on passengers and a tax on
airlines. The federal government has on several occasions proposed a significant increase in the
per ticket tax. The proposed ticket tax increase, if implemented, could negatively impact our
results of operations.


     Proposals to address congestion issues at certain airports or in certain airspace,
particularly in the Northeast United States, have included concepts such as “congestion-based”
landing fees, “slot auctions” or other alternatives that could impose a significant cost on the
airlines operating in those airports or airspace and impact the ability of those airlines to
respond to competitive actions by other airlines. Furthermore, events related to extreme weather
delays have caused Congress and the DOT to consider proposals related
to airlines’ handling of lengthy flight delays during extreme weather conditions. The recent
enactment of such a regulation by the DOT could have a
negative impact on our operations in certain circumstances.


     Future regulatory action concerning climate change and aircraft emissions could have a
significant effect on the airline industry. For example, the European
Commission has adopted an emissions trading scheme applicable to all flights operating in the European Union,
including flights to and from the United States. We expect that such a system will impose
significant costs on our operations in the European Union. Other laws or regulations such as this
emissions trading scheme or other U.S. or foreign governmental actions may adversely affect our
operations and financial results, either through direct costs in our operations or through
increases in costs for jet fuel that could result from jet fuel suppliers passing on increased
costs that they incur under such a system.


     We and other U.S. carriers are subject to domestic and foreign laws regarding privacy of
passenger and employee data that are not consistent in all countries in which we operate. In
addition to the heightened level of concern regarding privacy of passenger data in the United
States, certain European government agencies are initiating inquiries into airline privacy
practices. Compliance with these regulatory regimes is expected to result in additional operating
costs and could impact our operations and any future expansion.



Our insurance costs have increased substantially as a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist
attacks, and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have a material
adverse impact on our business and operating results.


     As a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly
reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability
to persons (other than employees or passengers) for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or
similar events. At the same time, aviation insurers significantly increased the premiums for such
coverage and for aviation insurance in general. Since September 24, 2001, the U.S. government has
been providing U.S. airlines with war-risk insurance to cover losses, including those resulting
from terrorism, to passengers, third parties (ground damage) and the aircraft hull. The coverage
currently extends through August 31, 2010. The withdrawal of government support of airline war-risk
insurance would require us to obtain war-risk insurance coverage commercially, if available. Such
commercial insurance could have substantially less desirable coverage than that currently provided
by the U.S. government, may not be adequate to protect our risk of loss from future acts of
terrorism, may result in a material increase to our operating expenses or may not be obtainable at
all, resulting in an interruption to our operations.





ITEM 1B