Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K, other than risks that could apply to any issuer or offering. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this report.1Part IITEM 1. BUSINESSGeneralWe provide scheduled air transportation for passengers and cargo throughout the United States and around the world. Our global route network gives us a presence in every major domestic and international market. Our route network is centered around the hub system we operate at airports in Amsterdam, Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York-JFK, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Salt Lake City and Tokyo-Narita. Each of these hub operations includes flights that gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region surrounding the hub to domestic and international cities and to other hubs. Our network is supported by a fleet of aircraft that is varied in terms of size and capabilities, giving us flexibility to adjust aircraft to the network.Other key characteristics of our route network include:•our alliances with foreign airlines, including our membership in SkyTeam, a global airline alliance;•our transatlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia;•our domestic marketing alliance with Alaska Airlines, which expands our west coast service; and•agreements with multiple domestic regional carriers, which operate as Delta Connection, including our wholly-owned subsidiary, Comair, Inc.We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta, Georgia. Our telephone number is (404) 715-2600 and our Internet address is www.delta.com. Information contained on this website is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference in, this Form 10-K.International Alliances We have bilateral and multilateral marketing alliances with foreign airlines to improve our access to international markets. These arrangements can include codesharing, reciprocal frequent flyer program benefits, shared or reciprocal access to passenger lounges, joint promotions, common use of airport gates and ticket counters, ticket office co-location and other marketing agreements. These alliances often present opportunities in other areas, such as airport ground handling arrangements and aircraft maintenance insourcing.Our international codesharing agreements enable us to market and sell seats to an expanded number of international destinations. Under international codesharing arrangements, we and a foreign carrier each publish our respective airline designator codes on a single flight operation, thereby allowing us and the foreign carrier to offer joint service with one aircraft, rather than operating separate services with two aircraft. These arrangements typically allow us to sell seats on a foreign carrier's aircraft that are marketed under our designator code and permit the foreign airline to sell seats on our aircraft that are marketed under the foreign carrier's designator code.We have international codeshare arrangements with Aeroméxico, Air France, Air Nigeria, Alitalia, Aeroflot, China Airlines, China Eastern, China Southern, CSA Czech Airlines, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, Korean Air, Olympic Air, Royal Air Maroc, VRG Linhas Aéreas (operating as GOL), Vietnam Airlines, Virgin Australia and WestJet Airlines (and some affiliated carriers operating in conjunction with some of these airlines).SkyTeam. In addition to our marketing alliance agreements with individual foreign airlines, we are a member of the SkyTeam global airline alliance. The other members or prospective members of SkyTeam are Aeroflot, Aeroméxico, Air Europa, Air France, Alitalia, China Airlines, China Eastern, China Southern, CSA Czech Airlines, Kenya Airways, KLM, Korean Air, Tarom and Vietnam Airlines. Aerolineas Argentinas, Garuda Indonesia, Middle East Airlines, Saudi Arabian Airlines and Xiamen Airlines each have announced their formal intent to join SkyTeam within the next two years. One goal of SkyTeam is to link the route networks of the member airlines, providing opportunities for increased connecting traffic while offering enhanced customer service through mutual codesharing arrangements, reciprocal frequent flyer and lounge programs and coordinated cargo operations.2Transatlantic joint venture. In addition to being members in SkyTeam with Air France and KLM, both of which are subsidiaries of the same holding company, and Alitalia, we have a transatlantic joint venture agreement with these carriers. This agreement provides for the sharing of revenues and costs on transatlantic routes, as well as coordinated pricing, scheduling and product development on included routes. Pursuant to this joint venture, we, Air France-KLM and Alitalia operate an extensive transatlantic network, primarily on routes between North America and Europe, and secondarily on routes between North America and Africa, the Middle East and India, and routes between Europe and Central America and several countries in northern South America.Transpacific joint venture with Virgin Australia Airlines. In June 2011, we and Virgin Australia Airlines received approval of antitrust immunity for our transpacific alliance. Antitrust immunity will allow us to implement a proposed joint venture that will expand the reach of Delta and Virgin Australia between the United States and Australia and the South Pacific. The alliance will create a network able to serve thousands of city-pairs in North America and the South Pacific. Alone, we serve only Sydney in Australia and Virgin Australia flies only to Los Angeles in the United States. The antitrust immunized alliance will allow the airlines to fully cooperate on network planning and distribution to deliver a more attractive and competitive service for customers.Enhanced commercial agreements with Latin American Carriers. In 2011, we entered into separate agreements with Grupo Aeroméxico, S.A.B. de C.V., the parent company of Aeroméxico, and GOL Linhas Aéreas Inteligentes, S.A, the parent company of GOL, for a strategic equity investment in each company and an exclusive commercial relationship with their carriers. We believe this will secure our long-term position in the important and expanding Latin markets of Mexico and Brazil, respectively. The agreements provide for expansion of codesharing, additional alignment of service attributes offered to frequent flyer members of our Sky Miles program and the other carriers' programs, and additional cooperation for selling activities. The expanded relationship with Aeroméxico also contemplates the establishment of a joint-venture maintenance, repair and overhaul facility in Guadalajara, Mexico.Domestic AlliancesWe have entered into a marketing alliance with Alaska Airlines, which includes mutual codesharing and reciprocal frequent flyer and airport lounge access arrangements. Our alliance agreement with Alaska Airlines provides for extensive cooperation with respect to our west coast presence.We also have frequent flyer and reciprocal lounge agreements with Hawaiian Airlines, and codesharing agreements with American Eagle Airlines (“American Eagle”) and Hawaiian Airlines. These marketing relationships are designed to permit the carriers to retain their separate identities and route networks while increasing the number of domestic and international connecting passengers using the carriers' route networks.Regional CarriersWe have air service agreements with multiple domestic regional air carriers that feed traffic to our route system by serving passengers primarily in small-and medium-sized cities. These arrangements enable us to increase the number of flights we have available in certain locations and to better match capacity with demand. Approximately 21% of our passenger revenue in 2011 was related to flying by regional air carriers.Through our regional carrier program, we have contractual arrangements with ten regional carriers to operate regional jet and, in certain cases, turbo-prop aircraft using our “DL” designator code. In addition to our wholly-owned subsidiary, Comair, we have contractual arrangements with: ExpressJet Airlines, Inc. (formerly, Atlantic Southeast Airlines, Inc.) and SkyWest Airlines, Inc., both subsidiaries of SkyWest, Inc.; Chautauqua Airlines, Inc. and Shuttle America Corporation, both subsidiaries of Republic Airways Holdings, Inc.; Pinnacle Airlines, Inc. and Mesaba Aviation, Inc. ("Mesaba"), both subsidiaries of Pinnacle Airlines Corp. ("Pinnacle"); Compass Airlines, Inc. ("Compass") and GoJet Airlines, LLC, both subsidiaries of Trans States Holdings, Inc. ("Trans States"); and American Eagle.3With the exception of American Eagle and a portion of the flights operated for us by SkyWest Airlines as described below, these agreements are capacity purchase arrangements, under which we control the scheduling, pricing, reservations, ticketing and seat inventories for the regional carriers' flights operating under our “DL” designator code, and we are entitled to all ticket, cargo, mail and in-flight and ancillary revenues associated with these flights. We pay those airlines an amount, as defined in the applicable agreement, which is based on a determination of their cost of operating those flights and other factors intended to approximate market rates for those services. These capacity purchase agreements are long-term agreements, usually with initial terms of at least 10 years, which grant us the option to extend the initial term. Certain of these agreements provide us the right to terminate the entire agreement, or in some cases remove some of the aircraft from the scope of the agreement, for convenience at certain future dates.Our arrangement with American Eagle, limited to certain flights operated to and from the Los Angeles International Airport, as well as a portion of the flights operated for us by SkyWest Airlines, are structured as revenue proration agreements. These proration agreements establish a fixed dollar or percentage division of revenues for tickets sold to passengers traveling on connecting flight itineraries.Frequent Flyer ProgramOur SkyMiles® frequent flyer program is designed to retain and increase traveler loyalty by offering incentives to travel on Delta. The SkyMiles program allows program members to earn mileage for travel awards by flying on Delta, Delta's regional carriers and other participating airlines. Mileage credit may also be earned by using certain services offered by program participants, such as credit card companies, hotels and car rental agencies. In addition, individuals and companies may purchase mileage credits. Miles will not expire, but are subject to all program rules. We reserve the right to terminate the program with six months advance notice, and to change the program's terms and conditions at any time without notice.SkyMiles program mileage credits can be redeemed for air travel on Delta and participating airlines, for membership in our Delta Sky Clubs® and for other program participant awards. Mileage credits are subject to certain transfer restrictions and travel awards are subject to capacity-controlled seating. In 2011, program members redeemed more than 275 billion miles in the SkyMiles program for 12 million award redemptions. During this period, 8.2% of revenue miles flown on Delta were from award travel.Other BusinessesCargoThrough the strength of our global network, our cargo operations are able to connect all of the world's major freight gateways. We generate cargo revenues in domestic and international markets primarily through the use of cargo space on regularly scheduled passenger aircraft. We are a member of SkyTeam Cargo, a global airline cargo alliance, whose other members are Aeromexico Cargo, Air France Cargo, Alitalia Cargo, CSA Czech Airlines Cargo, KLM Cargo and Korean Air Cargo. SkyTeam Cargo offers a global network spanning six continents, provides customers a consistent international product line and permits its members to improve their efficiency and effectiveness in the marketplace.Delta TechOps, Delta Global Services, MLT Vacations and Delta Private JetsWe have several other businesses arising from our airline operations, including aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”), staffing services for third parties, vacation wholesale operations and our private jet operations. Our MRO operation, known as Delta TechOps, is the largest airline MRO in North America. In addition to providing maintenance and engineering support for our fleet of approximately 775 aircraft, Delta TechOps serves more than 150 aviation and airline customers from around the world. Delta TechOps employs approximately 9,600 maintenance professionals and is one of the most experienced MRO providers in the world. Our staffing services business, Delta Global Services, provides staffing services, professional security, training services and aviation solutions to approximately 150 customers. Our vacation wholesale business, MLT Vacations, is one of the largest providers of vacation packages in the United States. Our private jet operations, Delta Private Jets, provides aircraft charters, aircraft management and programs allowing members to purchase flight time by the hour. In 2011, the total revenue from these businesses was approximately $900 million.4Distribution and Expanded Product OfferingsOur tickets are sold through various distribution channels including telephone reservations, delta.com, global distribution systems and online travel agencies. An increasing number of our tickets are sold through delta.com, which reduces our distribution costs and gives us closer contact with our customers. We expect to launch a new delta.com platform in 2012, which we expect will result in additional purchases of tickets through that channel. We are transforming distribution from a commodity approach to a differentiated and merchandised approach. We expect that the merchandising initiatives we are implementing, primarily through delta.com, will generate additional revenue opportunities for us and will improve the experience of our customers. Our plan is to provide our customers with opportunities to purchase what they value, such as first class upgrades, economy comfort seating, WiFi access and SkyClub passes. We also expect to benefit from increased traffic on delta.com through a combination of advertising revenue and sales of third party merchandise and services such as car rentals, hotels, and trip insurance. FuelOur results of operations are significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. The following table shows our aircraft fuel consumption and costs.YearGallons Consumed(1) (Millions)Cost(1)(2) (Millions)Average Price Per Gallon(1)(2)Percentage of Total Operating Expense(1)20113,856$11,783$3.0636%20103,823$8,901$2.3330%20093,853$8,291$2.1529%(1) Includes the operations of our contract carriers under capacity purchase agreements.(2) Includes fuel hedge gains (losses) under our fuel hedging program of $420 million, $(89) million and $(1.4) billion for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.Our aircraft fuel purchase contracts do not provide material protection against price increases or assure the availability of our fuel supplies. We purchase most of our aircraft fuel under contracts that establish the price based on various market indices. We also purchase aircraft fuel on the spot market, from off-shore sources and under contracts that permit the refiners to set the price.In an effort to manage our exposure to changes in aircraft fuel prices, we actively manage our fuel price risk through a hedging program intended to provide an offset against increases in jet fuel prices. This fuel hedging program utilizes several different contract and fuel commodity types, which are used together to create a risk mitigating hedge portfolio.We are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, but it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. Weather-related events, natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in government policy concerning aircraft fuel production, transportation or marketing, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages and fuel price increases in the future.CompetitionThe airline industry is highly competitive, marked by significant competition with respect to routes, fares, schedules (both timing and frequency), services, products, customer service and frequent flyer programs. The industry is going through a period of transformation through consolidation, both domestically and internationally, and changes in international alliances. Consolidation in the airline industry and changes in international alliances have altered and will continue to alter the competitive landscape in the industry by resulting in the formation of airlines and alliances with increased financial resources, more extensive global networks and altered cost structures. In addition, other network carriers have also significantly reduced their costs over the last several years including through restructuring and bankruptcy reorganization. American Airlines has recently filed for bankruptcy protection, which may enable it to substantially reduce its costs. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure.5DomesticOur domestic operations are subject to competition from both traditional network and discount carriers, some of which may have lower costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. In particular, we face significant competition at our domestic hub airports in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York-JFK and Salt Lake City either directly at those airports or at the hubs of other airlines that are located in close proximity to our hubs. We also face competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from regional jet operators.InternationalOur international operations are subject to competition from both domestic and foreign carriers. Through alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements with foreign carriers, U.S. carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as services to and beyond traditional European and Asian gateway cities. Similarly, foreign carriers have obtained increased access to interior U.S. passenger traffic beyond traditional U.S. gateway cities through these relationships. In particular, alliances formed by domestic and foreign carriers, including SkyTeam, the Star Alliance (among United Air Lines, Continental Airlines, Lufthansa German Airlines, Air Canada and others) and the oneworld alliance (among American Airlines, British Airways, Qantas and others) have significantly increased competition in international markets. The adoption of liberalized Open Skies Aviation Agreements with an increasing number of countries around the world, including in particular the Open Skies Treaties that the U.S. has with the Member States of the European Union and Japan, could significantly increase competition among carriers serving those markets.Several joint ventures among U.S. and foreign carriers, including our transatlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia, have received grants of antitrust immunity allowing the participating carriers to coordinate schedules, pricing, sales and inventory. Other joint ventures that have received anti-trust immunity include a transatlantic alliance among United, Continental, Air Canada and Lufthansa, a transpacific joint venture among United, Continental and All Nippon Airways, a transatlantic joint venture among American, British Airways and Iberia, and a transpacific joint venture between American and Japan Air Lines.Regulatory MattersThe Department of Transportation (“DOT”) and the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) exercise regulatory authority over air transportation in the U.S. The DOT has authority to issue certificates of public convenience and necessity required for airlines to provide domestic air transportation. An air carrier that the DOT finds fit to operate is given authority to operate domestic and international air transportation (including the carriage of passengers and cargo). Except for constraints imposed by regulations regarding “Essential Air Services,” which are applicable to certain small communities, airlines may terminate service to a city without restriction.The DOT has jurisdiction over certain economic and consumer protection matters, such as unfair or deceptive practices and methods of competition, advertising, denied boarding compensation, baggage liability and disabled passenger transportation. The DOT also has authority to review certain joint venture agreements between major carriers and engages in regulation of economic matters such as slot transactions. The FAA has primary responsibility for matters relating to the safety of air carrier flight operations, including airline operating certificates, control of navigable air space, flight personnel, aircraft certification and maintenance and other matters affecting air safety.Authority to operate international routes and international codesharing arrangements is regulated by the DOT and by the governments of the foreign countries involved. International certificate authorities are also subject to the approval of the U.S. President for conformance with national defense and foreign policy objectives.The Transportation Security Administration and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, each a division of the Department of Homeland Security, are responsible for certain civil aviation security matters, including passenger and baggage screening at U.S. airports and international passenger prescreening prior to entry into or departure from the U.S.Airlines are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. For example, the U.S. Department of Justice has jurisdiction over airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry, as discussed below, are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act. Environmental matters are regulated by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities. Privacy of passenger and employee data is regulated by domestic and foreign laws and regulations.6Fares and RatesAirlines set ticket prices in all domestic and most international city pairs with minimal governmental regulation, and the industry is characterized by significant price competition. Certain international fares and rates are subject to the jurisdiction of the DOT and the governments of the foreign countries involved. Many of our tickets are sold by travel agents, and fares are subject to commissions, overrides and discounts paid to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers.Route AuthorityOur flight operations are authorized by certificates of public convenience and necessity and also by exemptions and limited-entry frequency awards issued by the DOT. The requisite approvals of other governments for international operations are controlled by bilateral agreements (and a multilateral agreement in the case of the U.S. and the European Union) with, or permits or approvals issued by, foreign countries. Because international air transportation is governed by bilateral or other agreements between the U.S. and the foreign country or countries involved, changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of our international route authorities or otherwise affect our international operations. Bilateral agreements between the U.S. and various foreign countries served by us are subject to renegotiation from time to time. The U.S. government has negotiated “open skies” agreements with many countries, which allow unrestricted access between the U.S. and the foreign markets. These agreements include separate agreements with the European Union and Japan.Certain of our international route authorities are subject to periodic renewal requirements. We request extension of these authorities when and as appropriate. While the DOT usually renews temporary authorities on routes where the authorized carrier is providing a reasonable level of service, there is no assurance this practice will continue in general or with respect to a specific renewal. Dormant route authorities may not be renewed in some cases, especially where another U.S. carrier indicates a willingness to provide service.Airport AccessOperations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by us are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of “slots” or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period.In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of slots, slot exemptions, operating authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at Reagan National in Washington, D.C. and LaGuardia, John F. Kennedy International Airport (“JFK”) and Newark in the New York City area. Our operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or analogous regulatory authorizations. Similarly, our operations at Tokyo's Narita and Haneda Airports, London's Gatwick and Heathrow airports and other international airports are regulated by local slot coordinators pursuant to the International Air Transport Association's Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law. We currently have sufficient slots or analogous authorizations to operate our existing flights, and we have generally been able to obtain the rights to expand our operations and to change our schedules. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are subject to changes in governmental policies.Environmental MattersEmissions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) is authorized to regulate aircraft emissions and has historically implemented emissions control standards previously adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”). Our aircraft comply with existing EPA standards as applicable by engine design date. The ICAO has adopted two additional aircraft engine emissions standards, the first of which is applicable to engines certified after December 31, 2007, and the second of which is applicable to engines certified after December 31, 2013. On July 6, 2011, the EPA issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes to adopt these two ICAO aircraft engine emissions standards, but the EPA has not yet issued the final regulation.7Concern about aviation environmental issues, including climate change and greenhouse gases, has led to taxes on our operations in the United Kingdom and in Germany, both of which have levied taxes directly on our customers. We may face additional regulation of aircraft emissions in the United States and abroad and become subject to further taxes, charges or additional requirements to obtain permits or purchase allowances or emission credits for greenhouse gas emissions in various jurisdictions. This could result in taxation or permitting requirements from multiple jurisdictions for the same operations. Ongoing bilateral discussions between the United States and other nations as well as discussions at the ICAO Assembly and Conference of the Parties, most recently in Durbin in December 2011, may lead to international treaties or other actions focusing on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from aviation.The European Union has required its member states to implement regulations including aviation in its Emissions Trading Scheme (“ETS”). Under these regulations, any airline with flights originating or landing in the European Union are subject to the ETS and, beginning in 2012, are required to purchase emissions allowances if the airline exceeds the number of free allowances allocated to it under the ETS. We expect that this system will impose significant costs on our operations in the European Union. Numerous countries, including the U.S., and airline groups continue to oppose the European Union ETS.Cap and trade restrictions have also been proposed in the United States. In addition, other legislative or regulatory action, including by the EPA, to regulate greenhouse gas emissions is possible. In particular, the EPA has found that greenhouse gases threaten the public health and welfare, which could result in regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. In the event that legislation or regulation is enacted in the U.S. or in the event similar legislation or regulation is enacted in jurisdictions other than the European Union where we operate or where we may operate in the future, it could result in significant costs for us and the airline industry. In addition to direct costs, such regulation may have a greater effect on the airline industry through increases in fuel costs that could result from fuel suppliers passing on increased costs that they incur under such a system. We are monitoring and evaluating the potential impact of such legislative and regulatory developments.We seek to minimize the impact of carbon emissions from our operations through reductions in our fuel consumption and other efforts. We have reduced the fuel needs of our aircraft fleet through the retirement and replacement of certain elements of our fleet and with newer, more fuel efficient aircraft. In addition, we have implemented fuel saving procedures in our flight and ground support operations that further reduce carbon emissions. We are also supporting efforts to develop alternative fuels and efforts to modernize the air traffic control system in the U.S., as part of our efforts to reduce our emissions and minimize our impact on the environment.Noise. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 recognizes the rights of operators of airports with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as such programs do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. This statute generally provides that local noise restrictions on Stage 3 aircraft first effective after October 1, 1990, require FAA approval. While we have had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions in the past, our operations could be adversely impacted if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.Other Environmental Matters. We have been identified by the EPA as a potentially responsible party (a “PRP”) with respect to certain Superfund Sites, and entered into consent decrees or settlements regarding some of these sites. Our alleged disposal volume at each of these sites was small or was considered de minimis when compared to the total contributions of all PRPs at each site. We are aware of soil and/or ground water contamination present on our current or former leaseholds at several domestic airports. To address this contamination, we have a program in place to investigate and, if appropriate, remediate these sites. Although the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.We are also subject to various other federal, state and local laws governing environmental matters, including the management and disposal of chemicals, waste and hazardous materials, protection of surface and subsurface waters, and regulation of air emissions and aircraft drinking water.Civil Reserve Air Fleet ProgramWe participate in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program (the “CRAF Program”), which permits the U.S. military to use the aircraft and crew resources of participating U.S. airlines during airlift emergencies, national emergencies or times of war. We have agreed to make available under the CRAF Program a portion of our international long-range aircraft during the contract period ending September 30, 2012. We have also committed aircraft to international short-range requirements. The CRAF Program has only been activated twice since it was created in 1951.8Employee MattersRailway Labor ActOur relations with labor unions in the U.S. are governed by the Railway Labor Act. Under the Railway Labor Act, a labor union seeking to represent an unrepresented craft or class of employees is required to file with the National Mediation Board (the “NMB”) an application alleging a representation dispute, along with authorization cards signed by at least 35% of the employees in that craft or class. The NMB then investigates the dispute and, if it finds the labor union has obtained a sufficient number of authorization cards, conducts an election to determine whether to certify the labor union as the collective bargaining representative of that craft or class. A labor union will be certified as the representative of the employees in a craft or class if more than 50% of votes cast are for that union. A certified labor union would commence negotiations toward a collective bargaining agreement with the employer.Under the Railway Labor Act, a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a labor union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. Either party may request that the NMB appoint a federal mediator to participate in the negotiations for a new or amended agreement. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB may determine, at any time, that an impasse exists and offer binding arbitration. If either party rejects binding arbitration, a 30-day “cooling off” period begins. At the end of this 30-day period, the parties may engage in “self help,” unless the U.S. President appoints a Presidential Emergency Board (“PEB”) to investigate and report on the dispute. The appointment of a PEB maintains the “status quo” for an additional 60 days. If the parties do not reach agreement during this period, the parties may then engage in “self help.” “Self help” includes, among other things, a strike by the union or the imposition of proposed changes to the collective bargaining agreement by the airline. Congress and the President have the authority to prevent “self help” by enacting legislation that, among other things, imposes a settlement on the parties.Collective BargainingAs of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 78,400 full-time equivalent employees. Approximately 16% of these employees were represented by unions, including the following domestic employee groups.  Employee GroupApproximate Number of Active Employees RepresentedUnionDate on which Collective Bargaining Agreement Becomes AmendableDelta Pilots10,850ALPADecember 31, 2012Delta Flight Superintendents (Dispatchers)340PAFCADecember 31, 2013Comair Pilots790ALPAMarch 2, 2011Comair Maintenance Employees280IAMDecember 31, 2010Comair Flight Attendants550IBTDecember 31, 2010All of our agreements with workgroups at our airline subsidiary, Comair, are currently amendable. Comair is in discussions with representatives of the respective unions and we cannot predict the outcome of those discussions. Labor unions periodically engage in organizing efforts to represent various groups of our employees, including at our airline subsidiary, that are not represented for collective bargaining purposes. Completion of Merger IntegrationIntegration of a number of the workgroups following our merger with Northwest Airlines (including pilots, aircraft maintenance technicians, dispatchers, meteorologists, simulator technicians, and office and clerical staff) has been completed. Completion of the integration of other workgroups (including flight attendants, airport employees and reservations employees) will be completed during 2012 following the final resolution of representation issues during the latter part of 2011. The flight attendants, airport employees and reservations employees each rejected representation by unions.9Executive Officers of the RegistrantRichard H. Anderson, Age 56: Chief Executive Officer of Delta since September 1, 2007; Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of its Commercial Services Group (December 2006-August 2007); Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group (November 2004-December 2006); Chief Executive Officer of Northwest Airlines Corporation (“Northwest”) (2001-November 2004).Edward H. Bastian, Age 54: President of Delta since September 1, 2007; President of Delta and Chief Executive Officer Northwest Airlines, Inc. (October 2008-December 2009); President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta (September 2007-October 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta (July 2005-September 2007); Chief Financial Officer, Acuity Brands (June 2005-July 2005); Senior Vice President-Finance and Controller of Delta (2000-April 2005); Vice President and Controller of Delta (1998-2000).Michael H. Campbell, Age 63: Executive Vice President-HR & Labor Relations of Delta since October 2008; Executive Vice President-HR, Labor & Communications of Delta (December 2007-October 2008); Executive Vice President-Human Resources and Labor Relations of Delta (July 2006-December 2007); Of Counsel, Ford & Harrison (January 2005-July 2006); Senior Vice President-Human Resources and Labor Relations, Continental Airlines, Inc. (1997-2004); Partner, Ford & Harrison (1978-1996).Stephen E. Gorman, Age 56: Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Delta since October 2008; Executive Vice President-Operations of Delta (December 2007-October 2008); President and Chief Executive Officer of Greyhound Lines, Inc. (June 2003-October 2007); President, North America and Executive Vice President Operations Support at Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Inc. (August 2001-June 2003); Executive Vice President, Technical Operations and Flight Operations of Northwest (February 2001-August 2001), Senior Vice President, Technical Operations of Northwest (January 1999-February 2001), and Vice President, Engine Maintenance Operations of Northwest (April 1996-January 1999).Glen W. Hauenstein, Age 51: Executive Vice President-Network Planning and Revenue Management of Delta since April 2006; Executive Vice President and Chief of Network and Revenue Management of Delta (August 2005-April 2006); Vice General Director-Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Operating Officer of Alitalia (2003-2005); Senior Vice President-Network of Continental Airlines (2003); Senior Vice President-Scheduling of Continental Airlines (2001- 2003); Vice President Scheduling of Continental Airlines (1998-2001).Hank Halter, Age 46: Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta since October 2008; Senior Vice President-Finance and Controller of Delta (May 2005-October 2008); Vice President-Controller of Delta (March 2005-May 2005); Vice President-Assistant Controller of Delta (January 2002-March 2005); and Vice President-Finance-Operations of Delta (February 2000-December 2001); various finance leadership positions at Delta and American Airlines, Inc. (June 1993-February 2000).Richard B. Hirst, Age 67: Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Delta since October 2008; Senior Vice President-Corporate Affairs and General Counsel of Northwest (March 2008- October 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of KB Home (March 2004-November 2006); Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Burger King Corporation (March 2001-June 2003); General Counsel of the Minnesota Twins (1999-2000); Senior Vice President-Corporate Affairs of Northwest (1994-1999); Senior Vice President-General Counsel of Northwest (1990-1994); Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary of Continental Airlines (1986-1990).Additional InformationWe make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or our other securities filings and is not a part of those filings.10ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to DeltaOur business and results of operations are dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. High fuel costs or cost increases could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Likewise, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel would materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.Our operating results are significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Fuel prices have increased substantially since the middle part of the last decade and have been extremely volatile during the last several years. In 2011, our average fuel price per gallon was $3.06, a 31% increase from an average fuel price of $2.33 in 2010. In 2010, our average fuel price per gallon was $2.33, an 8% increase from an average fuel price of $2.15 in 2009. In 2008, our average fuel price per gallon was $3.16, a 41% increase from an average price of $2.24 in 2007, which in turn was significantly higher than fuel prices just a few years earlier. Fuel costs represented 36%, 30% and 29% of our operating expense in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Volatility in fuel costs has had a significant negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our ability to pass along the increased costs of fuel to our customers may be affected by the competitive nature of the airline industry. We often have not been able to increase our fares to offset fully the effect of increased fuel costs in the past and we may not be able to do so in the future. In addition, our aircraft fuel purchase contracts do not provide material protection against price increases or assure the availability of our fuel supplies. We purchase most of our aircraft fuel under contracts that establish the price based on various market indices. We also purchase aircraft fuel on the spot market, from offshore sources and under contracts that permit the refiners to set the price. We are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, but it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. Weather-related events, natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in governmental policy concerning aircraft fuel production, transportation or marketing, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in additional fuel supply shortages and fuel price increases in the future. Additional increases in fuel costs or disruptions in fuel supplies could have additional negative effects on us.Our fuel hedging activities are intended to provide an offset against increases in jet fuel prices. Our obligation to post collateral in connection with our hedge contracts may have a substantial impact on our short-term liquidity.We actively manage our fuel price risk through a hedging program intended to provide an offset against increases in jet fuel prices. This fuel hedging program utilizes several different contract and commodity types, which are used together to create a risk mitigating hedge portfolio. The economic effectiveness of this hedge portfolio is frequently tested against our financial targets. The hedge portfolio is rebalanced from time to time according to market conditions, which may result in locking in gains or losses on hedge contracts prior to their settlement dates and may have a negative impact on our financial results. Our fuel hedge contracts contain margin funding requirements, which are driven by changes in price of the underlying commodity and the contracts used. The margin funding requirements may cause us to post margin to counterparties or may cause counterparties to post margin to us as market prices in the underlying hedged items change. If fuel prices decrease significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into fuel hedge contracts, we may be required to post a significant amount of margin, which could have a material adverse impact on the level of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.Our funding obligations with respect to defined benefit pension plans we sponsor is significant and can vary materially because of changes in investment asset returns and values.As of December 31, 2011, our defined benefit pension plans had an estimated benefit obligation of approximately $19.3 billion and were funded through assets with a value of approximately $7.8 billion. The benefit obligation is significantly affected by investment asset returns and changes in interest rates, neither of which is in the control of Delta. We estimate that our funding requirement for our defined benefit pension plans, which are governed by ERISA and have been frozen for future accruals, is approximately $700 million in 2012. Estimates of pension plan funding requirements can vary materially from actual funding requirements because the estimates are based on various assumptions concerning factors outside our control, including, among other things, the market performance of assets; statutory requirements; and demographic data for participants, including the number of participants and the rate of participant attrition. Results that vary significantly from our assumptions could have a material impact on our future funding obligations.11Our substantial indebtedness may limit our financial and operating activities and may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.We have substantial indebtedness, which could:•make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events;•limit our ability to borrow additional money for working capital, restructurings, capital expenditures, research and development, investments, acquisitions or other purposes, if needed, and increasing the cost of any of these borrowings;•limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and/or•limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and demand for new services, placing us at a disadvantage when compared to our competitors that have less debt, and making us more vulnerable than our competitors who have less debt to a downturn in our business, industry or the economy in general.In addition, a substantial level of indebtedness, particularly because a significant portion of our assets are currently subject to liens, could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We have historically had substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business. These liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance and many other factors not within our control.Agreements governing our debt, including credit agreements and indentures, include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations.Our credit facilities and indentures for secured notes have various financial and other covenants that require us to maintain, depending on the particular agreement, minimum fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios. The value of the collateral that has been pledged in each facility may change over time, which may be reflected in appraisals of collateral required by our credit agreements and indentures. These changes could result from factors that are not under our control. A decline in the value of collateral could result in a situation where we may not be able to maintain the collateral coverage ratio. In addition, the credit facilities and indentures contain other negative covenants customary for such financings. If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result. These covenants are subject to important exceptions and qualifications.The credit facilities and indentures also contain other events of default customary for such financings. If an event of default were to occur, the lenders or the trustee could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, and our cash may become restricted. We cannot provide assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance the borrowings or notes under any of the credit facilities if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under any of the credit facilities or the indentures could also result in an event of default under other of our financing agreements.Employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations.Our business is labor intensive, utilizing large numbers of pilots, flight attendants, aircraft maintenance technicians, ground support personnel and other personnel. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 16% of our workforce was unionized. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the Railway Labor Act, which provides that a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a labor union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. The Railway Labor Act generally prohibits strikes or other types of self-help actions both before and after a collective bargaining agreement becomes amendable, unless and until the collective bargaining processes required by the Railway Labor Act have been exhausted. Our agreement with our pilots becomes amendable in December 2012. All of our agreements with workgroups at our airline subsidiary, Comair, are currently amendable. Comair is in discussions with representatives of the respective unions and we cannot predict the outcome of those discussions.12If we or our affiliates are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages, subject to the requirements of the Railway Labor Act. Strikes or labor disputes with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Likewise, if third party regional carriers with whom we have contract carrier agreements are unable to reach agreement with their unionized work groups on current or future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements, those carriers may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages, subject to the requirements of the Railway Labor Act, which could have a negative impact on our operations.Extended interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports could have a material adverse impact on our operations.Our business is heavily dependent on our operations at the Atlanta airport and at our other hub airports in Amsterdam, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York-JFK, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Salt Lake City and Tokyo-Narita. Each of these hub operations includes flights that gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region surrounding the hub to other major cities and to other Delta hubs. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs could have a serious impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations, and if our technology fails or we are unable to continue to invest in new technology, our business may be adversely affected.We have become increasingly dependent on technology initiatives to reduce costs and to enhance customer service in order to compete in the current business environment. For example, we have made and continue to make significant investments in delta.com, check-in kiosks and related initiatives. The performance and reliability of the technology are critical to our ability to attract and retain customers and our ability to compete effectively. Because of the rapid pace of new developments, these initiatives will continue to require significant capital investments in our technology infrastructure. If we are unable to make these investments, our business and operations could be negatively affected. If we are unable to manage these challenges effectively, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected.In addition, any internal technology error or failure impacting systems hosted internally at our data centers or externally at third party locations or large scale external interruption in technology infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, may disrupt our technology network. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of technology could impact our customer service and result in increased costs. Our technology systems and related data may also be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. While we have in place, and continue to invest in, technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and its adverse financial and reputational consequences to our business.Our primary credit card processors have the ability to take significant holdbacks in certain circumstances. The initiation of such holdbacks likely would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.Most of the tickets we sell are paid for by customers who use credit cards. Our primary credit card processing agreements provide that no holdback of receivables or reserve is required except in certain circumstances, including if we do not maintain a required level of unrestricted cash. If circumstances were to occur that would allow American Express or our VISA/MasterCard processor to initiate a holdback, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be material.We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving our aircraft.An aircraft crash or other accident could expose us to significant tort liability. In the event that the insurance that we carry to cover damages arising from future accidents is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate or an aircraft that is operated by an airline that is one of our regional carriers or codeshare partners could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and harm our business.13Our business is subject to the effects of weather and natural disasters and seasonality, which can cause our results to fluctuate.Our results of operations will reflect fluctuations from weather, natural disasters and seasonality. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters can significantly disrupt service and create air traffic control problems. These events decrease revenue and can also increase costs. In addition, increases in frequency, severity or duration of thunderstorms, hurricanes, typhoons or other severe weather events, including from changes in the global climate, could result in increases in fuel consumption to avoid such weather, turbulence-related injuries, delays and cancellations, any of which would increase the potential for greater loss of revenue and higher costs. In addition, demand for air travel is typically higher in the June and September quarters, particularly in international markets, because there is more vacation travel during these periods than during the remainder of the year. Because of fluctuations in our results from weather, natural disasters and seasonality, operating results for a historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period and operating results for an interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year.An extended disruption in services provided by our third party regional carriers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We utilize the services of third party providers in a number of areas in support of our operations that are integral to our business, including third party carriers in the Delta Connection program. While we have agreements with these providers that define expected service performance, we do not have direct control over the operations of these carriers. To the extent that a significant disruption in our regional operations occurs because any of these providers are unable to perform their obligations over an extended period of time, our revenue may be reduced or our expenses may be increased resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations.If we experience losses of senior management personnel and other key employees, our operating results could be adversely affected.We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and other key employees to execute our business plans. If we experience a substantial turnover in our leadership and other key employees, our performance could be materially adversely impacted. Furthermore, we may be unable to attract and retain additional qualified executives as needed in the future.Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitation.In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (“NOLs”), to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders (generally 5% shareholders, applying certain look-through rules) increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years).As of December 31, 2011, Delta reported a consolidated federal pretax NOL carryforward of approximately $16.8 billion. Both Delta and Northwest experienced an ownership change in 2007 as a result of their respective plans of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the merger, Northwest experienced a subsequent ownership change. Delta also experienced a subsequent ownership change on December 17, 2008 as a result of the merger, the issuance of equity to employees in connection with the merger and other transactions involving the sale of our common stock within the testing period.The Delta and Northwest ownership changes resulting from the merger could limit the ability to utilize pre-change NOLs that were not subject to limitation, and could further limit the ability to utilize NOLs that were already subject to limitation. Limitations imposed on the ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. NOLs generated subsequent to December 17, 2008 are not limited.14Risk Factors Relating to the Airline IndustryThe airline industry is highly competitive and, if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected.The airline industry is highly competitive, marked by significant competition with respect to routes, fares, schedules (both timing and frequency), services, products, customer service and frequent flyer programs. Our domestic operations are subject to competition from both traditional network and discount carriers, some of which may have lower costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. In particular, we face significant competition at our domestic hub airports in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York-JFK and Salt Lake City either directly at those airports or at the hubs of other airlines that are located in close proximity to our hubs. We also face competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from regional jet operators.Discount carriers, including Southwest, AirTran (now owned by Southwest) and JetBlue, have placed significant competitive pressure on us in the United States and on other network carriers in the domestic market. In addition, other network carriers have also significantly reduced their costs over the last several years through restructuring and bankruptcy reorganization. American has recently filed for bankruptcy protection, which may enable it to substantially reduce its costs. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure. If we cannot maintain our costs at a competitive level, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.Our international operations are subject to competition from both domestic and foreign carriers. Through alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements with foreign carriers, U.S. carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as services to and beyond traditional European and Asian gateway cities. Similarly, foreign carriers have obtained increased access to interior U.S. passenger traffic beyond traditional U.S. gateway cities through these relationships. In particular, alliances formed by domestic and foreign carriers, including SkyTeam, the Star Alliance (among United Air Lines, Continental Airlines, Lufthansa German Airlines, Air Canada and others) and the oneworld alliance (among American Airlines, British Airways, Qantas and others) have significantly increased competition in international markets. The adoption of liberalized Open Skies Aviation Agreements with an increasing number of countries around the world, including in particular the Open Skies Treaties that the U.S. has with the Member States of the European Union and Japan, could significantly increase competition among carriers serving those markets.Several joint ventures among U.S. and foreign carriers, including our transatlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia, have received grants of antitrust immunity allowing the participating carriers to coordinate schedules, pricing, sales and inventory. Other joint ventures that have received anti-trust immunity include a transatlantic alliance among United, Continental, Air Canada and Lufthansa, a transpacific joint venture among United, Continental and All Nippon Airways, a transatlantic joint venture among American, British Airways and Iberia, and a transpacific joint venture between American and Japan Air Lines.Consolidation in the domestic airline industry and changes in international alliances have altered and will continue to alter the competitive landscape in the industry by resulting in the formation of airlines and alliances with increased financial resources, more extensive global networks and altered cost structures.The rapid spread of contagious illnesses can have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.The rapid spread of a contagious illness can have a material adverse effect on the demand for worldwide air travel and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, our operations could be negatively affected if employees are quarantined as the result of exposure to a contagious illness. Similarly, travel restrictions or operational problems resulting from the rapid spread of contagious illnesses in any part of the world in which we operate may have a materially adverse impact on our business and results of operations.15Terrorist attacks or international hostilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 caused fundamental and permanent changes in the airline industry, including substantial revenue declines and cost increases, which resulted in industry-wide liquidity issues. Potential terrorist attacks or security breaches or fear of such events, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect us and the airline industry. The potential negative effects include increased security (including as a result of our global operations), insurance and other costs and lost revenue from increased ticket refunds and decreased ticket sales. Our financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the United States.The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and new regulations may increase our operating costs.Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. For instance, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that necessitate significant expenditures. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA's regulations.Other laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have also been imposed from time to time that significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. The industry is heavily taxed. For example, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. The federal government has on several occasions proposed a significant increase in the per ticket tax and has recently proposed additional departure fees. A ticket tax increase or additional fees, if implemented, could negatively impact our results of operations.Proposals to address congestion issues at certain airports or in certain airspace, particularly in the Northeast United States, have included concepts such as “congestion-based” landing fees, “slot auctions” or other alternatives that could impose a significant cost on the airlines operating in those airports or airspace and impact the ability of those airlines to respond to competitive actions by other airlines. In contrast, the failure of the federal government to upgrade the U.S. air traffic control system has resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic during peak travel periods in certain congested markets. The failure to improve the air traffic control system could lead to increased delays and inefficiencies in flight operations as demand for U.S. air travel increases, having a material adverse effect on our operations. Failure to update the air traffic control system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of an updated system that may be imposed on air carriers, may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Events related to extreme weather delays caused the DOT to promulgate regulations imposing potentially severe financial penalties upon airlines that have flights experiencing extended tarmac delays. These regulations could have a negative impact on our operations in certain circumstances.Future regulatory action concerning climate change and aircraft emissions could have a significant effect on the airline industry. For example, the European Commission has adopted an emissions trading scheme applicable to all flights operating in the European Union, including flights to and from the United States. We expect that this system will impose additional costs on our operations in the European Union. Other laws or regulations such as this emissions trading scheme or other U.S. or foreign governmental actions may adversely affect our operations and financial results, either through direct costs in our operations or through increases in costs for jet fuel that could result from jet fuel suppliers passing on increased costs that they incur under such a system.We and other U.S. carriers are subject to domestic and foreign laws regarding privacy of passenger and employee data that are not consistent in all countries in which we operate. In addition to the heightened level of concern regarding privacy of passenger data in the United States, certain European government agencies are initiating inquiries into airline privacy practices. Compliance with these regulatory regimes is expected to result in additional operating costs and could impact our operations and any future expansion. In addition, a security breach in which passenger or employee data is exposed could result in disruption to our operations, damage to our reputation and significant costs.16Our insurance costs have increased substantially as a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results.As a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly (1) reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons (other than employees or passengers) for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events and (2) increased the premiums for such coverage and for aviation insurance in general. Since September 24, 2001, the U.S. government has been providing U.S. airlines with war-risk insurance to cover losses, including those resulting from terrorism, to passengers, third parties (ground damage) and the aircraft hull. The coverage currently extends through September 30, 2012, and we expect the coverage to be further extended. The withdrawal of government support of airline war-risk insurance would require us to obtain war-risk insurance coverage commercially, if available. Such commercial insurance could have substantially less desirable coverage than that currently provided by the U.S. government, may not be adequate to protect our risk of loss from future acts of terrorism, may result in a material increase to our operating expenses or may not be obtainable at all, resulting in an interruption to our operations. ITEM 1B