ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS  


The company's operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond its control. Based on current information, the company believes that the following identifies the most significant
risk factors that could affect its businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends
in future periods. 

Price increases for energy and raw materials could have a significant impact on the company's ability to sustain and grow earnings.  

The company's manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of energy and raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and
demand as well as other factors beyond the control of the company. Significant variations in the cost of energy, which primarily reflect market prices for oil and natural gas and raw materials affect
the company's operating results from period to period. Legislation to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and establishing a price on carbon could create increases in energy
costs and price 

6




 

<A
HREF="#bg49201a_main_toc">Table of Contents


Part I 

 ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued

volatility.
When possible, the company purchases raw materials through negotiated long-term contracts to minimize the impact of price fluctuations. Additionally, the company enters into
over-the-counter and exchange traded derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposure to price fluctuations on certain raw material purchases. The company takes actions
to offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs through selling price increases, productivity improvements and cost reduction programs. Success in offsetting higher raw material costs
with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the market served. If the company is not able to fully offset the effects of
higher energy and raw material costs, it could have a significant impact on the company's financial results. 

Failure to develop and market new products and manage product life cycles could impact the company's competitive position and have an adverse effect
on the company's financial results.  

Operating results are largely dependent on the company's assessment and management of its portfolio of current, new and developing products and
services and its ability to bring those products and services to market. The company plans to grow earnings by focusing on developing markets and solutions to meet increasing demand for food
productivity, decrease dependency on fossil fuels and protect people, assets and the environment. This ability could be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development such as the
inability to identify viable new products, successfully complete research and development, obtain relevant regulatory approvals, obtain intellectual property protection, or gain market acceptance of
new products and services. Because of the lengthy development process, technological challenges and intense competition, there can be no assurance that any of the products the company is currently
developing, or could begin to develop in the future, will achieve substantial commercial success. Sales of the company's new products could replace sales of some of its current products, offsetting
the benefit of even a successful product introduction. 

The company's results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other commitments and contingencies.  

The company faces risks arising from various unasserted and asserted litigation matters, including, but not limited to, product liability, patent
infringement, antitrust claims, and claims for third party property damage or personal injury stemming from alleged environmental torts. The company has noted a nationwide trend in purported class
actions against chemical manufacturers generally seeking relief such as medical monitoring, property damages, off-site remediation and punitive damages arising from alleged environmental
torts without claiming present personal injuries. The company also has noted a trend in public and private nuisance suits being filed on behalf of states, counties, cities and utilities alleging harm
to the general public. Various factors or developments can lead to changes in current estimates of liabilities such as a final adverse judgment, significant settlement or changes in applicable law. A
future adverse ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on the company. An adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters could
be material to the company's financial results. 

In
the ordinary course of business, the company may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties and indemnities relating to current and past operations, including those related to
divested businesses and issue guarantees of third party obligations. If the company were required to make payments as a result, they could exceed the amounts accrued, thereby adversely affecting the
company's results of operations. 

The company's business, including its results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by process safety and product stewardship
issues.  

Failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with the company's products, product life
cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, the company's reputation and its results of operations. Public perception of the risks associated with the
company's products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which the company operates. While the company has procedures and controls to
manage process safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of its control including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage. 

7




 

<A
HREF="#bg49201a_main_toc">Table of Contents


Part I 

 ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued

As a result of the company's current and past operations, including operations related to divested businesses, the company could incur significant
environmental liabilities.  

The company is subject to various laws and regulations around the world governing the environment, including the discharge of pollutants and the
management and disposal of hazardous substances. As a result of its operations, including its past operations and operations of divested businesses, the company could incur substantial costs,
including cleanup costs. The costs of complying with complex
environmental laws and regulations, as well as internal voluntary programs, are significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the
timing of these costs are difficult to predict. The company's accruals for such costs and liabilities may not be adequate because the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of
factors including the nature of the matter, the complexity of the site, site geology, the nature and extent of contamination, the type of remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies
and other Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs) at multi-party sites and the number and financial viability of other PRPs. 

The company's ability to generate sales from genetically modified products, particularly seeds and other agricultural products, could be adversely
affected by market acceptance, government policies, rules or regulations and competition.  

The company is using biotechnology to create and improve products, particularly in its Agriculture & Nutrition segment. The use of
biotechnology to characterize the genetic and performance characteristics of Pioneer seeds provides Pioneer with competitive advantages in the development of new products, and in the most effective
placement of those products on customer acres. In addition, the company uses biotechnology to enhance the performance of its seed products through the addition of specific transgenes. The company's
ability to generate sales from such products could be affected by market acceptance of genetically modified products as well as governmental policies, laws and regulations that affect the development,
manufacture and distribution of products, including the testing and planting of seeds containing biotechnology traits and the import of commodity grain grown from those seeds. 

The
company competes with major global companies that have strong intellectual property estates supporting the use of biotechnology to enhance products, particularly in the agricultural products and
production markets. Speed in discovering and protecting new technologies and bringing products based on them to market is a significant competitive advantage. Failure to predict and respond
effectively to this competition could cause the company's existing or candidate products to become less competitive, adversely affecting sales. 


Changes in government policies and laws could adversely affect the company's financial results.  

Sales outside the U.S. constitute approximately 65 percent of the company's 2010 revenue. The company anticipates that international sales will
continue to represent a substantial portion of its total sales and that continued growth and profitability will require further international expansion, particularly in developing markets. Sales from
developing markets represent approximately 30 percent of the company's revenue in 2010 and the company's growth plans include focusing on expanding its presence in developing markets. The
company's financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and
similar organizations. These conditions include, but are not limited to, changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and
marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on
currency exchange activities, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism,
political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced sales and profitability. 

Economic factors, including inflation, deflation and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices could affect the
company's financial results.  

The company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Because the company has significant
international operations, there are a large number of currency transactions that result from international sales, purchases, investments and borrowings. The company actively manages currency exposures
that are associated with net monetary asset positions, committed currency purchases and sales, foreign currency- 

8




 

<A
HREF="#bg49201a_main_toc">Table of Contents


Part I 

 ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued

denominated
revenues and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have an adverse impact on the company's financial
position, results of operations and cash flows. 

Conditions in the global economy and global capital markets may adversely affect the company's results of operations, financial condition, and cash
flows.  

The company's business and operating results may in the future be adversely affected by global economic conditions, including instability in credit
markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange rates, and other challenges that could affect the global economy. The company's customers may
experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase products and
may not be able to fulfill their obligations in a timely fashion. Further, suppliers could experience similar conditions, which could impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to the company.
Adversity within capital markets may impact future return on pension assets, thus resulting in greater future pension costs that impact the company's results. Future weakness in the global economy
could adversely affect the company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods. 

The company's results of operations and financial condition could be seriously impacted by business disruptions and security threats.  

Business disruptions, including supply disruptions, increasing costs for energy, temporary plant and/or power outages and information technology
system and network disruptions, could seriously harm the company's operations as well as the operations of its customers and suppliers. Like many other multinational organizations, the company faces
security threats to its facilities, data and information technology infrastructure. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of business disruptions or security threats,
they could result in reduced demand for the company's products, make it difficult or impossible for the company to deliver products to its customers or to receive raw materials from suppliers, and
create delays and inefficiencies in the supply chain. The company actively manages the risks within its control that could lead to business disruptions or security breaches in order to mitigate any
potential impact from business disruptions regardless of cause including acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, weather events and natural
disasters. Despite these efforts, the impact from business disruptions and security breaches could significantly increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely impact the company's
financial performance. 

Inability to protect and enforce the company's intellectual property rights could adversely affect the company's financial results.  

Intellectual property rights are important to the company's business. The company endeavors to protect its intellectual property rights in
jurisdictions in which its products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which its products are imported. However, the company may be unable to obtain protection for its intellectual
property in key jurisdictions. Additionally, the company has designed and implemented internal controls to restrict access to and distribution of its intellectual property, including confidential
information and trade secrets. Despite these precautions, it is possible that unauthorized parties may access and use such property. When misappropriation is discovered, the company reports such
situations to the appropriate governmental authorities for investigation and takes measures to mitigate any potential impact.  

 ITEM 1B