Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  

DuPont
operates in markets that involve significant risks, many of which are beyond the company's control. Based on current information, the company believes that the following identifies the most
significant risk factors that could affect its businesses. However, the risks and uncertainties the company faces are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or
unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that the company currently believes to be immaterial, that could have material adverse effects on the company's
financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate
results or trends in future periods. 

Price increases for energy costs and raw materials could have a significant impact on the company's ability to sustain and grow earnings.  

The company's manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of energy and hydrocarbon-based raw materials the costs of which primarily reflect market prices for oil and
natural gas. These prices are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond the control of the company. Significant variations in the cost of energy and raw materials affect
the company's operating results from period to period. When possible, the company purchases raw materials through negotiated long-term contracts to minimize the impact of price
fluctuations. The company has taken actions to offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs through selling price increases, productivity improvements and cost reduction programs.
Success in offsetting higher raw material costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the market served. If the
company is not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs, it could have a significant impact on the company's financial results. 

7




 

Failure to develop and market new products could impact the company's competitive position and have an adverse affect on the company's financial results.  

The company's operating results are largely dependent on its ability to renew its pipeline of new products and services and to bring those products and services to market. This
ability could be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development such as the inability to identify viable new products, successfully complete research and development, obtain
relevant regulatory approvals, obtain intellectual property protection, or gain market acceptance of new products and services. Because of the lengthy development process, technological challenges and
intense competition, there can be no assurance that any of the products the company is currently developing, or could begin to develop in the future, will achieve substantial commercial success. Sales
of the company's new products could replace sales of some of its current products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction. 

The company's results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other commitments and contingencies.  

The company faces risks arising from various litigation matters unasserted and asserted, including but not limited to product liability claims, patent infringement claims and
antitrust claims. Various factors or developments can lead to changes in current estimates of liabilities such as a final adverse judgment, significant settlement or changes in applicable law. A
future adverse ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect to the company. An adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters could
be material to the company's Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information see Part II, Item 7–Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations subtitled "PFOA" and Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In
the ordinary course of business, the company may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties, indemnities and guarantees of third party obligations. If the company were required
to make payments as a result, they could exceed the amounts accrued, thereby adversely affecting the company's results of operations. For further information see Note 24 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. 

The company's operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations.  

The company's operations are subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including the discharge of pollutants into the
air and water and the management and disposal of hazardous substances. The company could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property
damage or personal injury claims. The costs of complying with complex environmental laws and regulations, as well as internal voluntary programs, are significant and will continue to be so for the
foreseeable future. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. The company's accruals for such costs and liabilities may not be adequate
because the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of factors including the nature of the allegation, the complexity of the site, site geology, the nature and extent of
contamination, the type of remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs) at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of
other PRPs. It is the company's policy that all of its operations fully meet or exceed legal and regulatory requirements for protecting the environment. For further information see Part I, Item
3–Legal Proceedings, Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II, Item 7–Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations entitled Environmental Matters. 

8




 

The company's ability to generate sales from genetically enhanced products, particularly seeds and other agricultural products, could be adversely affected by market
acceptance, government policies, rules or regulations and competition.  

The company is using biotechnology to create and improve products, particularly in its Agriculture & Nutrition segment. Demand for these products could be affected by
market acceptance of genetically modified products as well as governmental policies, laws and regulations that affect the development, manufacture and distribution of products, including the testing
and planting of seeds containing biotechnology traits, and the import of crops grown from those seeds. 

The
company competes with major, global companies that have strong intellectual property estates supporting the use of biotechnology to enhance products, particularly in the agricultural products and
production markets. Speed in discovering and protecting new technologies, and bringing products based on them to market is a significant competitive advantage. Failure to predict and respond
effectively to this competition could cause the company's existing or candidate products to become less competitive adversely affecting sales. 

Changes in government policies and laws or worldwide economic conditions could adversely affect the company's financial results.  

Sales outside the U.S. constitute more than half of the company's revenue. The company anticipates that international sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of
its total sales and that continued growth and profitability will require further international expansion. The company's financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal
policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a
country's or region's economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of
intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers.
International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced international sales and reduced
profitability associated with such sales. 

Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates, and commodity prices could affect the company's financial results.  


The company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Because the company has significant international operations, there are
a large number of currency transactions that result from international sales, purchases, investments, and borrowings. The company actively manages currency exposures that are associated with monetary
asset positions, committed currency purchases and sales, and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have an adverse
impact on the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

Business disruptions could seriously impact the company's future revenue and financial condition and increase costs and expenses.  


Business disruptions, including supply disruptions, increasing costs for energy, temporary plant and/or power outages, natural disasters and severe weather events, such as
hurricanes, and pandemics, could seriously harm the company's operations as well as the operations of its customers and suppliers. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences
of any such events, they could result in reduced demand for the company's products, make it difficult or impossible for the company to deliver products to its customers or to receive raw materials
from suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in the supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. The impact from business disruptions could significantly increase
the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely impact the company's financial performance. 

9






<A
NAME="page_dc1014_1_10">   
 

Inability to protect and enforce the company's intellectual property rights could adversely affect the company's financial results.  

Intellectual property rights are important to the company's business. The company attempts to protect its intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in which its products
are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which its products are imported. However, the company may be unable to obtain protection for its intellectual property in key jurisdictions. The extent
to which the company is unable to protect its intellectual property could have an adverse impact its financial results. 

The company is subject to information system security risks and systems integration issues that could disrupt the company's internal operations.  

The company is dependent upon technology for the distribution of information within the company and to customers and suppliers. This information technology is vulnerable to
damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach and defects in design. There also could be system or network disruptions if new or
upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. Various measures have been implemented to manage the company's risks related to information system and network
disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact the company's operations and financial results. 

Item 1B