ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORSThe company's operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond its control. Based on current information, the company believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect its businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.Price increases for energy and raw materials could have a significant impact on the company's ability to sustain and grow earnings.The company's manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of energy and raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond the control of the company. Significant variations in the cost of energy, which primarily reflect market prices for oil, natural gas and raw materials, affect the company's operating results from period to period. Price increases for energy and raw materials were not significant to earnings in 2012 as compared to 2011.  In 2011, price increases for energy and raw materials were about $2.0 billion as compared to 2010. Legislation to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and establishing a price on carbon could create increases in energy costs and price volatility. When possible, the company purchases raw materials through negotiated long-term contracts to minimize the impact of price fluctuations. Additionally, the company enters into over-the-counter and exchange traded derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposure to price fluctuations on certain raw material purchases. The company takes actions to offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs through selling price increases, productivity improvements and cost reduction programs. Success in offsetting higher raw material costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the market served. If the company is not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs, it could have a significant impact on the company's financial results.Failure to develop and market new products and manage product life cycles could impact the company's competitive position and have an adverse effect on the company's financial results.Operating results are largely dependent on the company's assessment and management of its portfolio of current, new and developing products and services and its ability to bring those products and services to market. The company plans to grow earnings by focusing on solutions to meet increasing demand for food productivity, decrease dependency on fossil fuels, and protect people, assets and the environment. The company develops new products through multiple methods including, but not limited to, internal research, collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures and licensing technology or know-how. Developing and marketing new products could be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development such as the inability to identify viable new products, successfully complete research and development, obtain and maintain relevant regulatory approvals, obtain and maintain intellectual property protection, obtain technology or gain market acceptance of new products and services. Because of the lengthy development process, technological challenges and intense competition, there can be no assurance that any of the products the company is currently developing, or in which it will invest to develop, will achieve substantial commercial success. Not currently matching investment choices in new products with market need and competitive offerings could adversely affect business performance. Sales of the company's new products could replace sales of some of its current products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction.The company competes with major global companies that have strong intellectual property estates supporting the use of biotechnology to enhance products, particularly agricultural and bio-based products. Speed in discovering, developing and protecting new technologies and bringing related products to market is a significant competitive advantage. Failure to predict and respond effectively to this competition could cause the company's existing or candidate products to become less competitive, adversely affecting sales. Competitors are increasingly challenging intellectual property positions and the outcomes can be highly uncertain. If challenges are resolved adversely, it could negatively impact the company's ability to commercialize new products and generate sales from existing products.The company's results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other commitments and contingencies.The company faces risks arising from various unasserted and asserted litigation matters, including, but not limited to, product liability, patent infringement, antitrust claims, and claims for third party property damage or personal injury stemming from alleged environmental torts. The company has noted a nationwide trend in purported class actions against chemical manufacturers generally seeking relief such as medical monitoring, property damages, off-site remediation and punitive damages arising from alleged environmental torts without claiming present personal injuries. The company also has noted a trend in public and private nuisance suits being filed on behalf of states, counties, cities and utilities alleging harm to the general public. Various factors or developments can lead to changes in current estimates of liabilities such as a final adverse judgment, significant settlement or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on the company. An adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters could be material to the company's financial results.8Part IITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continuedIn the ordinary course of business, the company may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties and indemnities relating to current and past operations, including those related to divested businesses and issue guarantees of third party obligations. If the company were required to make payments as a result, they could exceed the amounts accrued, thereby adversely affecting the company's results of operations.The company's business, including its results of operations and reputation, could be adversely affected by process safety and product stewardship issues. Failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with the company's products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, the environment, the company's reputation and its results of operations. Public perception of the risks associated with the company's products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which the company operates. While the company has procedures and controls to manage process safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of its control including natural disasters, severe weather events, acts of sabotage and substandard performance by the company's external partners.As a result of the company's current and past operations, including operations related to divested businesses, the company could incur significant environmental liabilities.The company is subject to various laws and regulations around the world governing the environment, including the discharge of pollutants and the management and disposal of hazardous substances. As a result of its operations, including its past operations and operations of divested businesses, the company could incur substantial costs, including remediation and restoration costs. The costs of complying with complex environmental laws and regulations, as well as internal voluntary programs, are significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. The company's accruals for such costs and liabilities may not be adequate because the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of factors including the nature of the matter, the complexity of the site, site geology, the nature and extent of contamination, the type of remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs) at multi-party sites and the number and financial viability of other PRPs.Market acceptance, government policies, rules or regulations and competition could affect the company's ability to generate sales from products based on biotechnology. The company is using biotechnology to create and improve products, particularly in its Agriculture and Industrial Biosciences segments. The use of biotechnology to characterize the genetic and performance characteristics of Pioneer seeds provides Pioneer with competitive advantages in the development of new products, and in the most effective placement of those products on customer planted area. Industrial Biosciences leverages the company's biotechnology capabilities to develop and manufacture a broad portfolio of enzymes and biomaterials. These products enable cost and process benefits, better product performance and improve environmental outcomes to a broad range of products and processes such as animal nutrition, detergents, food manufacturing, ethanol production and industrial applications. The company's ability to generate sales from such products could be impacted by market acceptance as well as governmental policies, laws and regulations that affect the development, manufacture and distribution of products, including the testing and planting of seeds containing biotechnology traits and the import of commodity grain grown from those seeds. The regulatory environment is lengthy and complex with requirements that can vary by industry and by country. The regulatory environment may be impacted by the activities of non-governmental organizations and special interest groups and stakeholder reaction to actual or perceived impacts of new technology on safety, health and the environment. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals requires submitting a significant amount of information and data, which may require participation from technology providers. The ability to satisfy the requirements of regulatory agencies is essential to be able to continue to sell existing products or commercialize new products.Changes in government policies and laws could adversely affect the company's financial results.Sales to customers outside the U.S. constitute about 60 percent of the company's 2012 revenue. The company anticipates that international sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of its total sales and that continued growth and profitability will require further international expansion, particularly in developing markets. Sales from developing markets represent 34 percent of the company's revenue in 2012 and the company's growth plans include focusing on expanding its presence in developing markets. The company's financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include, but are not limited to, changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, burdensome taxes and tariffs and 9Part IITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continuedother trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced sales and profitability.Economic factors, including inflation, deflation and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices could affect the company's financial results.The company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Because the company has significant international operations, there are a large number of currency transactions that result from international sales, purchases, investments and borrowings. The company actively manages currency exposures that are associated with net monetary asset positions, committed currency purchases and sales, foreign currency-denominated revenues and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have an adverse impact on the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Conditions in the global economy and global capital markets may adversely affect the company's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.The company's business and operating results may in the future be adversely affected by global economic conditions, including instability in credit markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange rates, and other challenges that could affect the global economy. The company's customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations in a timely fashion. Further, suppliers could experience similar conditions, which could impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to the company. Adversity within capital markets may impact future return on pension assets, thus resulting in greater future pension costs that impact the company's results. Future weakness in the global economy could adversely affect the company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods.The company's results of operations and financial condition could be seriously impacted by business disruptions and security breaches, including cybersecurity incidents.Business and/or supply chain disruptions, plant and/or power outages and information technology system and/or network disruptions, regardless of cause including acts of sabotage, employee error or other actions, geo-political activity, weather events and natural disasters could seriously harm the company's operations as well as the operations of its customers and suppliers. Failure to effectively prevent, detect and recover from security breaches, including attacks on information technology and infrastructure by hackers; viruses; breaches due to employee error or actions; or other disruptions could result in misuse of the company's assets, business disruptions, loss of property including trade secrets and confidential business information, legal claims or proceedings, reporting errors, processing inefficiencies, negative media attention, loss of sales and interference with regulatory compliance. Although management does not believe that the company has experienced any material losses to date related to security breaches, including cybersecurity incidents, there can be no assurance that it will not suffer such losses in the future. The company actively manages the risks within its control that could lead to business disruptions and security breaches. As these threats continue to evolve, particularly around cybersecurity, the company may be required to expend significant resources to enhance its control environment, processes, practices and other protective measures. Despite these efforts, such events could materially adversely affect the company's business, financial condition or results of operations.Inability to protect and enforce the company's intellectual property rights could adversely affect the company's financial results.Intellectual property rights, including patents, plant variety protection, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, tradenames and other forms of trade dress, are important to the company's business. The company endeavors to protect its intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in which its products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which its products are imported. However, the company may be unable to obtain protection for its intellectual property in key jurisdictions. The company has designed and implemented internal controls to restrict access to and distribution of its intellectual property. Despite these precautions, the company's intellectual property is vulnerable to unauthorized access through employee error or actions, theft and cybersecurity incidents, and other security breaches. When unauthorized access and use or counterfeit products are discovered, the company reports such situations to governmental authorities for investigation, as appropriate, and takes measures to mitigate any potential impact.10Part IITEM 1B