ITEM 1A. RISK
    FACTORS


 



    The company’s operations could be affected by various
    risks, many of which are beyond its control. Based on current
    information, the company believes that the following identifies
    the most significant risk factors that could affect its
    businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable
    indicator of future performance and historical trends should not
    be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.


 



    Price increases
    for energy and raw materials could have a significant impact on
    the company’s ability to sustain and grow
    earnings.





    The company’s manufacturing processes consume significant
    amounts of energy and raw materials, the costs of which are
    subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors
    beyond the control of the company. Significant variations in the
    cost of energy, which primarily reflect market prices for oil
    and natural gas and raw materials affect the company’s
    operating results from period to period. When possible, the
    company purchases raw materials through negotiated long-term
    contracts to minimize the impact of price fluctuations.
    Additionally, the company enters into over-the-counter and
    exchange traded derivative commodity instruments to hedge its
    exposure to price fluctuations on certain raw material
    purchases. The company has taken actions to offset the effects
    of higher energy and raw material costs through selling price
    increases, productivity improvements and cost reduction
    programs. Success in offsetting higher raw material costs with
    price increases is largely influenced by competitive and
    economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on
    the market served. If the company is not able to fully offset
    the effects of higher energy and raw material costs, it could
    have a significant impact on the company’s financial
    results.


 



    Failure to
    develop and market new products could impact the company’s
    competitive position and have an adverse effect on the
    company’s financial results.





    The company’s operating results are largely dependent on
    its ability to renew its pipeline of new products and services
    and to bring those products and services to market. This ability
    could be adversely affected by difficulties or



    
    6



Table of Contents




    Part I

 


    Item 1A. Risk Factors, continued

 


    delays in product development such as the inability to identify
    viable new products, successfully complete research and
    development, obtain relevant regulatory approvals, obtain
    intellectual property protection, or gain market acceptance of
    new products and services. Because of the lengthy development
    process, technological challenges and intense competition, there
    can be no assurance that any of the products the company is
    currently developing, or could begin to develop in the future,
    will achieve substantial commercial success. Sales of the
    company’s new products could replace sales of some of its
    current products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful
    product introduction.


 



    The
    company’s results of operations could be adversely affected
    by litigation and other commitments and contingencies.





    The company faces risks arising from various unasserted and
    asserted litigation matters, including, but not limited to,
    product liability, patent infringement, antitrust claims, and
    claims for third party property damage or personal injury
    stemming from alleged environmental torts. The company has noted
    a nationwide trend in purported class actions against chemical
    manufacturers generally seeking relief such as medical
    monitoring, property damages, off-site remediation and punitive
    damages arising from alleged environmental torts without
    claiming present personal injuries. Various factors or
    developments can lead to changes in current estimates of
    liabilities such as a final adverse judgment, significant
    settlement or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling
    or unfavorable development could result in future charges that
    could have a material adverse effect on the company. An adverse
    outcome in any one or more of these matters could be material to
    the company’s financial results.


 


    In the ordinary course of business, the company may make certain
    commitments, including representations, warranties and
    indemnities relating to current and past operations, including
    those related to divested businesses and issue guarantees of
    third party obligations. If the company were required to make
    payments as a result, they could exceed the amounts accrued,
    thereby adversely affecting the company’s results of
    operations.


 



    As a result of
    the company’s current and past operations, including
    operations related to divested businesses, the company could
    incur significant environmental liabilities.





    The company is subject to various laws and regulations around
    the world governing the environment, including the discharge of
    pollutants and the management and disposal of hazardous
    substances. As a result of its operations, including its past
    operations and operations of divested businesses, the company
    could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs. The
    costs of complying with complex environmental laws and
    regulations, as well as internal voluntary programs, are
    significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable
    future. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the
    timing of these costs are difficult to predict. The
    company’s accruals for such costs and liabilities may not
    be adequate because the estimates on which the accruals are
    based depend on a number of factors including the nature of the
    matter, the complexity of the site, site geology, the nature and
    extent of contamination, the type of remedy, the outcome of
    discussions with regulatory agencies and other Potentially
    Responsible Parties (PRPs) at multi-party sites and the number
    and financial viability of other PRPs.


 



    The
    company’s ability to generate sales from genetically
    enhanced products, particularly seeds and other agricultural
    products, could be adversely affected by market acceptance,
    government policies, rules or regulations and
    competition.





    The company is using biotechnology to create and improve
    products, particularly in its Agriculture & Nutrition
    segment. Demand for these products could be affected by market
    acceptance of genetically modified products as well as
    governmental policies, laws and regulations that affect the
    development, manufacture and distribution of products, including
    the testing and planting of seeds containing biotechnology
    traits and the import of crops grown from those seeds.


 


    The company competes with major global companies that have
    strong intellectual property estates supporting the use of
    biotechnology to enhance products, particularly in the
    agricultural products and production markets. Speed in
    discovering and protecting new technologies and bringing
    products based on them to market is a significant competitive
    advantage. Failure to predict and respond effectively to this
    competition could cause the company’s existing or candidate
    products to become less competitive, adversely affecting sales.



    
    7



Table of Contents




    Part I

 


    Item 1A. Risk Factors, continued

 



    Changes in
    government policies and laws could adversely affect the
    company’s financial results.





    Sales outside the U.S. constitute more than half of the
    company’s revenue. The company anticipates that
    international sales will continue to represent a substantial
    portion of its total sales and that continued growth and
    profitability will require further international expansion,
    particularly in emerging markets. The company’s financial
    results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and
    fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of
    U.S. and
    non-U.S. governments,
    agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include but
    are not limited to changes in a country’s or region’s
    economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting
    production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor
    conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual
    property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or
    legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities,
    burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers.
    International risks and uncertainties, including changing social
    and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political
    hostilities and war, could lead to reduced international sales
    and reduced profitability associated with such sales.


 



    Economic factors,
    including inflation and fluctuations in currency exchange rates,
    interest rates and commodity prices could affect the
    company’s financial results.





    The company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Because the company
    has significant international operations, there are a large
    number of currency transactions that result from international
    sales, purchases, investments and borrowings. The company
    actively manages currency exposures that are associated with
    monetary asset positions, committed currency purchases and sales
    and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of
    business. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have
    an adverse impact on the company’s financial position,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Conditions in the
    global economy and global capital markets may adversely affect
    the company’s results of operations, financial condition,
    and cash flows.





    The company’s business and operating results have been and
    will continue to be affected by the global recession, including
    the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business
    confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange
    rates, and other challenges currently affecting the global
    economy. The company’s customers may experience
    deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and
    difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or
    potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase
    products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations in a
    timely fashion. Further, suppliers may be experiencing similar
    conditions, which could impact their ability to fulfill their
    obligations to the company. If the global recession continues
    for significant future periods or deteriorates significantly,
    the company’s results of operations, financial condition
    and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Business
    disruptions could seriously impact the company’s future
    revenue and financial condition and increase costs and
    expenses.





    Business disruptions, including supply disruptions, increasing
    costs for energy, temporary plant
    and/or power
    outages and information technology system and network
    disruptions, could seriously harm the company’s operations
    as well as the operations of its customers and suppliers.
    Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or
    consequences of any such events, they could result in reduced
    demand for the company’s products, make it difficult or
    impossible for the company to deliver products to its customers
    or to receive raw materials from suppliers, and create delays
    and inefficiencies in the supply chain. The company actively
    manages the risks within its control that could cause business
    disruptions to mitigate any potential impact from business
    disruptions regardless of cause including acts of terrorism or
    war, and natural disasters. Despite these efforts, the impact
    from business disruptions could significantly increase the cost
    of doing business or otherwise adversely impact the
    company’s financial performance.


 



    Inability to
    protect and enforce the company’s intellectual property
    rights could adversely affect the company’s financial
    results.





    Intellectual property rights are important to the company’s
    business. The company endeavors to protect its intellectual
    property rights in jurisdictions in which its products are
    produced or used and in jurisdictions into which its products
    are imported. However, the company may be unable to obtain
    protection for its intellectual property in key jurisdictions.
    Additionally, the company has designed and implemented internal
    controls to restrict



    
    8



Table of Contents




    Part I

 


    Item 1A. Risk Factors, continued

 


    access to and distribution of its intellectual property,
    including confidential information and trade secrets. Despite
    these precautions, it is possible that unauthorized parties may
    access and use such property. When misappropriation is
    discovered, the company reports such situations to the
    appropriate governmental authorities for investigation and takes
    measures to mitigate any potential impact.


 



    ITEM 1B