ITEM 1A.              RISK FACTORS.
 
The following risks are considered the most significant to John Deere’s business based upon current knowledge, information and assumptions. This discussion of risk factors should be considered closely in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 20 and, specifically, the risks and uncertainties described in the Safe Harbor Statement on pages 22 and 23.
 
International, regional and national trade laws, regulations and policies (particularly those related to or restricting global trade) and government farm programs and policies, could significantly impact John Deere’s profitability and growth prospects.
 
International, regional and national laws, regulations and policies directly or indirectly related to or restricting trade, including protectionist policies in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of favored industries or sectors, could harm John Deere’s multinational business. John Deere’s profitability and growth prospects are tied directly to the global marketplace. Open access to global markets improves John Deere’s ability to export goods and services from its various manufacturing locations around the world, and affects the ability to access raw materials and high quality parts and components at competitive prices on a timely basis. Trade restrictions could limit John Deere’s ability to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities in international markets and impair John Deere’s ability to expand the business by offering new technologies, products and services. Fur
thermore, the ability to export commodities is critical to John Deere’s agricultural and forestry customers. Policies impacting exchange rates and commodity prices or those limiting the export or import of commodities, including the outcome of the global negotiations under the auspices of the World Trade Organization, could have a material effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities which may result in a corresponding negative effect on the demand for agricultural and forestry equipment in many areas of the world. John Deere’s agricultural equipment sales could be especially affected because farm income strongly influences sales of agricultural equipment around the world.
 
Trade restrictions could also impede those in developing countries from achieving a higher standard of living, which could negatively impact John Deere’s future growth opportunities arising from increasing global demand for food, fuel and infrastructure.
 
Changes in government banking, monetary and fiscal policies could have a negative effect on John Deere.
 
Changes in policies of the U.S. and other governments regarding banking, monetary and fiscal policies to promote liquidity and increase the availability of credit may not be effective and could have a material impact on John Deere’s customers and markets. John Deere’s operations and results could also be impacted by financial regulatory reform which could have an adverse affect on the credit segment and/or John Deere’s customers by limiting their ability to finance purchases of John Deere products. Governmental policies on taxes and spending can also affect John Deere, especially the construction and forestry segment due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure development.
 
Changing worldwide demand for food and for different forms of bio-energy could have an effect on the price of farm commodities and consequently the demand for certain John Deere equipment and could also result in higher research and development costs related to changing machine fuel requirements.
 
Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world’s growing food and bio-energy demands, driven in part by government policies and a growing world population, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which directly affect sales of agricultural equipment. While higher commodity prices may benefit John Deere’s crop producing agricultural equipment customers, higher commodity prices also result in greater feed costs for livestock and poultry producers which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by those customers. Furthermore, changing bio-fuel demands may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they raise, with corresponding changes in equipment demands.  Finally, changes in governmental policies regulating bio-fuel utilization could affect demand for John Deere’s gasoline- or diesel-fueled equipment and result in hi
gher research and development costs related to equipment fuel standards.
 
11






 
As John Deere seeks to expand its business globally, growth opportunities may be impacted by the continuing and accelerating globalization of businesses which could significantly change the dynamics of John Deere’s competition, customer base and product offerings.
 
John Deere’s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent upon access to, and its success in developing market share and operating profitably in, additional geographic markets including but not limited to Brazil, Russia, India and China. In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than John Deere’s other markets. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes John Deere to multiple and potentially conflicting legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change; increased exposure to currency fluctuations which can materially affect the Company’s financial results and differing local customer product preferences and product requirements. As these emerging geographic markets become more important to John Deere, its competitors 
are seeking to expand their production capacities in these same markets. Although John Deere is taking measures to adapt to these changing circumstances, particularly by focusing on gaining customer understanding in high-growth potential emerging markets, John Deere’s business efforts could be negatively affected should these efforts prove unsuccessful.
 
Negative economic conditions and outlook can  materially weaken demand for John Deere’s equipment and services, limit access to funding and result in higher funding costs.
 
The demand for John Deere’s products and services can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower business investment. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce the Company’s earnings and cash flows. The Company’s investment management activities could be adversely affected by changes in the equity and bond markets, which would negatively affect earnings. General economic conditions can affect the demand for John Deere’s equipment. Sustained or severe negative economic conditions and outlook resulting in decreased housing starts and other construction can dampen demand for certain construction equipment. John Deere’s turf operations and construction and forestry segment are dependent on construc
tion activity and positive general economic conditions. Significant or prolonged declines in construction activity and housing starts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. If negative economic conditions extend to the overall farm economy, there could be a similar effect on agricultural equipment sales.
 
The Company’s consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars while certain assets and other reported items are denominated in the currencies of other countries, creating currency translation risk.
 
The reporting currency for the Company’s consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of the Company’s assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in other countries’ currencies. Those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates to prepare the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, increases or decreases in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies affect the value of those items as reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, even if their value remains unchanged in their original currency. Substantial fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar could have a significant impact on the Company’s results.
 
Because the credit segment provides financing for a significant portion of John Deere sales worldwide, John Deere’s operations and financial results could be impacted materially should negative economic conditions affect the financial industry.
 
In recent years, negative economic conditions have frequently had an adverse effect on the financial industry in which the credit segment operates. The credit segment provides financing for a significant portion of John Deere sales worldwide. The credit segment’s inability to access funds to support its financing activities to John Deere’s customers could have a material adverse effect on John Deere’s business. The credit segment’s liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital to meet future cash flow requirements and fund operations and the costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. Additionally, sustained negative market conditions could further reduce customer confidence levels, resulting in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact the credit segment’s write-
offs and provisions for credit losses.
 
12






 
If John Deere’s customers lack confidence in the general economic outlook, they are less likely to purchase John Deere’s products.
 
The attitudes of consumers about general economic conditions and outlook can significantly affect their propensity to purchase John Deere equipment. Continuing or worsening negative economic conditions could significantly impair customer confidence and result in reduced equipment sales.
 
John Deere’s business results depend largely on its ability to develop, manufacture and market products that meet customer demand.
 
John Deere’s ability to match its new product offerings to its customers’ anticipated preferences for enhanced technologies and different types and sizes of equipment is critical to its success. This requires a thorough understanding of John Deere’s existing and potential customers on a global basis. Failure to deliver quality products at competitive prices to meet customer demands before competitors could have a significant adverse effect on John Deere’s business.
 
John Deere’s business may be directly and indirectly affected by unfavorable weather conditions or natural disasters that reduce agricultural production and demand for agricultural and turf equipment.
 
Poor or unusual weather conditions, particularly during the planting and early growing season, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of John Deere’s customers, particularly the purchasers of agriculture and turf equipment. The timing and quantity of rainfall are two of the most important factors in agricultural production. Insufficient levels of rain prevent farmers from planting new crops and may cause growing crops to die or result in lower yields. Excessive rain or flooding can also prevent planting from occurring at optimal times, and may cause crop loss through increased disease or mold growth. Temperatures outside normal ranges can also cause crop failure or decreased yields, and may also affect disease incidence. Temperature affects the rate of growth, crop maturity and crop quality. Natural calamities such as regional floods, hurricanes, or other storms, and droughts can have significan
t negative effects on agricultural production. The resulting negative impact on farm income can strongly affect demand for agricultural equipment. Sales of turf care equipment, particularly during the important spring selling season, can be dramatically impacted by weather. Adverse weather conditions in a particular geographic region may adversely affect sales of some turf equipment. Drought conditions can adversely affect sales of certain mowing equipment and unusually rainy weather can similarly cause lower sales volumes.
 
Changes in the availability and price of raw materials can result in increased costs and lower profits on sales of John Deere products.
 
John Deere requires access to various raw materials at competitive prices to manufacture its products. Changes in the availability and price of raw materials, which are more likely to occur during times of economic volatility, can significantly increase the costs of production which would have a material negative effect on the profitability of the business.
 
John Deere’s Equipment Operations and credit segment are subject to interest rate risks. Changes in interest rates can reduce demand for equipment, adversely affect interest margins and limit the ability to access capital markets while increasing borrowing costs.
 
Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of John Deere’s customers, either or both of which could negatively affect customer demand for John Deere equipment and/or customers’ ability to repay obligations to John Deere. In addition, credit market dislocations could have an impact on funding costs which are very important to the Company’s credit segment because such costs affect the segment’s ability to offer customers competitive financing rates. In addition, changing interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company’s net interest rate margin—the difference between the yield the Company earns on its assets and the interest rates the Company pays for funding, which could in turn affect the Company’s net interest income and earnings. Actions by credit rating agencies, such as downgrades or negative c
hanges to ratings outlooks, can affect the availability and cost of funding for the Company and can increase the Company’s cost of capital and hurt its competitive position.
 
13






 
John Deere’s operations are subject to and affected by increasingly rigorous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over John Deere’s international operations. In addition, private civil litigation on these subjects has increased, primarily in the U.S.
 
Enforcement actions arising from violations of environmental, health and safety laws or regulations can lead to investigation and defense costs, and result in significant fines or penalties. In addition, new or more stringent requirements of governmental authorities could prevent or restrict John Deere’s operations, require significant expenditures to achieve compliance and/or give rise to civil or criminal liability. There can be no assurance that violations of such legislation and/or regulations, or private civil claims for damages to property or personal injury arising from the environmental, health or safety impacts of John Deere’s operations, would not have consequences that result in a material adverse effect on John Deere’s business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
Increasingly stringent engine emission standards could impact John Deere’s ability to manufacture and distribute certain engines or equipment which could negatively affect business results.
 
Beginning in 2011, John Deere’s Equipment Operations must meet new and increasingly stringent engine emission reduction standards, including Interim Tier 4 and Stage IIIb nonroad diesel emission requirements applicable to many engines manufactured by John Deere and used in many models of John Deere agricultural and construction and forestry equipment. In order to meet these standards, John Deere has incurred substantial research and development costs and in fiscal year 2011 will introduce a record number of new equipment models, largely due to the implementation of these more rigorous standards. While John Deere has developed and is executing comprehensive plans to meet these requirements, and does not currently foresee obstacles that would prevent timely compliance, these plans are subject to many variables that could delay or otherwise affect John Deere’s ability to distribute certain equipment or e
ngines, which could negatively impact business results.
 
John Deere may incur increased costs due to new or more stringent greenhouse gas emission standards designed to address climate change and could be further impacted by physical effects attributed to climate change on its facilities, suppliers and customers.
 
There is a growing political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHG”) continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue to affect the global climate. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, including John Deere, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. These considerations may lead to international, national, regional or local legislative or regulatory responses in the near future. The regulation of GHG emissions from certain stationary or mobile sources could result in additional costs to John Deere in the form of taxes or emission allowances, facilities improvements and energy costs (which would increase John Deere’s operating costs through higher utility, transportation and materials 
costs). The regulation of GHG emissions from non-road sources could require further changes to the design of John Deere’s engines and equipment. Increased input costs, such as fuel and fertilizer, and compliance-related costs could also impact customer operations and demand for John Deere equipment. Because the impact of any future GHG legislative, regulatory or product standard requirements on John Deere’s global businesses and products is dependent on the timing and design of the mandate or standard, John Deere is unable to predict its significance at this time.
 
Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of climate change on John Deere’s facilities, suppliers and customers, and therefore on John Deere’s operations, are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions. These may include changes in weather patterns (including drought and rainfall levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, and temperature levels. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the cost, production, sales and financial performance of John Deere’s operations.
 
ITEM 1B