ITEM 1A.
  
  
  RISK FACTORS.
  
 


 

Governmental
Actions. The Company’s businesses are exposed to a variety of risks and
uncertainties related to the action or inaction of governmental bodies. The
outcome of the global negotiations under the auspices of the World Trade
Organization could have a material effect on the international flow of
agricultural commodities which may result in a corresponding effect on the
demand for agricultural equipment in many areas of the world. The policies of
the Brazilian government (including those related to exchange rates and
commodity prices) and Argentine government could significantly change the
dynamics of the agricultural economy in South America.

 

With
respect to the ongoing global
economic conditions, changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal
policies to restore liquidity and increase the availability of credit may not
be effective and could have a material impact on the Company’s customers and
markets. To the extent that the Company participates in governmental programs
designed to address current negative conditions, both in the United States and
in other countries, there is no assurance such programs will remain available
for sufficient periods of time or 

 

10












 

on acceptable terms to
benefit the Company, and the expiration of such programs could have unintended
adverse effects. In addition, certain competitors may be eligible for certain
programs that the Company is ineligible for, which may create a competitive
disadvantage. The Company’s operations and results could also be materially
impacted by financial regulatory reform. Governmental policies on
taxes and spending can also affect the Company, especially the construction and
forestry segment due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure
development.

 

Changing
Demand for Farm Outputs. Changing worldwide demand for food and the demand for different forms
of bio-energy could have an effect on prices for farm commodities and
consequently the demand for the Company’s agricultural equipment. In addition,
global economic conditions may have an impact on agricultural commodity prices.

 

Impact of
Globalization.
The continuing globalization of businesses may significantly change the
dynamics of the Company’s competition, customer base and product offerings. The
Company’s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent on access to,
and its success in developing market share and operating profitably in,
additional geographic markets including but not limited to Brazil, Russia,
India and China. In some cases, these countries have greater political and
economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor
disruptions. Operating in a large number of different regions and countries
exposes the Company to multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to
change; increased exposure to currency fluctuations; differing local product
preferences and product requirements; differing labor regulations and differing
tax laws. Simultaneously, these emerging markets are becoming more important as
their economies grow, as other international companies grow globally and local
low cost manufacturers expand their production capacities.

 

Economic Conditions and Outlook. Conditions in the global financial
markets and general economy materially affect the Company’s results of
operations. The demand for the Company’s products and services could be
adversely affected in an economic environment characterized by higher
unemployment, lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower
business investment. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions could
impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce the
Company’s earnings and cash flows. The Company’s investment management activities
could be adversely impacted by changes in the equity and bond markets, which
would negatively affect earnings. General economic conditions can affect the
demand for the Company’s equipment. Current negative economic conditions and outlook
have decreased housing starts and other construction and dampened demand for
certain construction equipment. The Company’s turf operations and its
construction and forestry segment are dependent on construction activity and
general economic conditions. Significant or prolonged declines in construction
activity and housing starts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
results of operations. If continuing negative economic conditions extend to the
overall farm economy, there could be a similar effect on agricultural equipment
sales.

 

Currency
Fluctuations. The
reporting currency for the Company’s consolidated financial statements is the
U.S. dollar. Certain of the Company’s assets, liabilities, expenses and
revenues are denominated in other countries’ currencies. Those assets,
liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at the
applicable exchange rates to prepare the Company’s consolidated financial
statements. Therefore, increases or decreases in exchange rates between the
U.S. dollar and those other currencies affect the value of those items as
reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, even if their
value remains unchanged in their original currency. Substantial fluctuations in
the value of the U.S. dollar could have a significant impact on the Company’s
results.

 

Risks to Financial Services. Current negative economic conditions
have adversely affected the financial industry in which the credit segment
operates. The credit segment provides financing to a significant portion of
John Deere sales worldwide. The credit segment’s inability to access funds to
support its financing activities to the Company’s customers could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The credit segment’s liquidity
and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital to meet
future cash flow requirements and fund operations and the costs associated with
engaging in diversified funding activities. Additionally, continued negative
market conditions could further reduce customer confidence levels, resulting in
declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default
rates, which could materially impact the credit segment’s write-offs and
provisions for credit losses.

 

Consumer
Attitudes. The
confidence the Company’s customers have in the general economic outlook can
have a significant effect on their propensity to purchase equipment and,
consequently, on the Company’s sales. Continuing negative economic conditions
could significantly impair customer confidence. The Company’s ability to match
its new product offerings to its customers’ anticipated preferences for
enhanced technologies and different types and sizes of equipment is important
as well.

 

Weather
Conditions. Poor
or unusual weather conditions, particularly in the spring, can significantly
affect the purchasing decisions of the Company’s customers, particularly the
customers of the agriculture and turf segment. Sales of turf care equipment in
the important spring selling season can be dramatically impacted by weather.

 

Supply
Base and Raw Material Costs. Many of the Company’s suppliers also supply the
automotive industry. The severe downturn in automotive sales and the weak
financial condition and restructuring of some major automakers could cause
these suppliers to face severe financial hardship and disrupt the Company’s
access to critical components. Changes in the availability and price of raw 

 

11












 

materials, which are more
likely to occur during times of economic volatility, could have a material
negative impact on the Company’s costs of production and, in turn, on the
profitability of the business.

 

Interest
Rates and Credit Ratings. Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall
economic activity and could affect the demand for the Company’s equipment. In
addition, credit market dislocations could have an impact on funding costs
which are very important to the Company’s credit segment. Decisions and actions
by credit rating agencies can affect the availability and cost of funding for
the Company. Credit rating downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks
can increase the Company’s cost of capital and hurt its competitive position.
Guidance from rating agencies as to acceptable leverage can affect the Company’s
returns as well.

 

Environmental Risk. The Company’s operations are subject to and
affected by increasingly rigorous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities in the
United States and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the Company’s
foreign operations.
Violations of such laws or regulations can lead to investigation and
remediation costs, significant fines or penalties. In addition, new or more
stringent requirements of governmental authorities, and claims for damages to
property or injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health or
safety impacts of the Company’s operations or past contamination, could prevent
or restrict the Company’s operations, require significant expenditures to
achieve compliance, involve the imposition of cleanup liens and/or give rise to
civil or criminal liability. There can be no assurance that violations of such
legislation and/or regulations, which could result in enforcement actions or
private claims, would not have consequences that result in a material adverse
effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

 

Beginning in 2011, the
Company’s Equipment Operations must meet new and increasingly stringent engine
emission standards, including Interim Tier 4 and Stage IIIb nonroad diesel
emission requirements applicable to many engines manufactured by the Company
and many models of John Deere agricultural and construction and forestry
equipment. While the Company has developed and is executing comprehensive plans
to meet these requirements, and does not currently foresee obstacles that would
prevent timely compliance, these plans are subject to many variables that could
delay or impact the Company’s ability to distribute certain equipment or
engines, which could negatively impact business results.

 

Climate Change.  There is a growing
political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHG”)
continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are
affecting and are expected to continue to affect the global climate. Various
stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and
non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors,
are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. There is growing consensus that
some form of U.S. regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with
respect to greenhouse gas emissions and such regulation could result in the
creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. The
impact of any future mandatory GHG legislative, regulatory or product standard
requirements on the Company’s global businesses and products is dependent on
the design of the mandate or standard, and so the Company is unable to predict
its significance at this time.

 

Furthermore,
the potential physical impacts of climate change on the Company’s customers,
and therefore on the Company’s operations, are highly uncertain, and will be
particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions.
These may include changes in weather patterns (including drought and rainfall
levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, and temperature
levels. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the cost,
production, sales and financial performance of John Deere’s operations.

 

The risks
identified above should be considered in conjunction with Management’s
Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 17 and, specifically, the other
risks described in the Safe Harbor Statement on pages 19 and 20. The
Company’s results of operations may be affected by these identified risks
and/or by risks not currently contemplated.

 


 
  
  ITEM 1B