ITEM 1A.              RISK
FACTORS.

Governmental Actions.  The Company’s agricultural business is
exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties related to the action or
inaction of governmental bodies.  The
outcome of the global negotiations under the auspices of the World Trade
Organization could have a material effect on the international flow of
agricultural commodities which may result in a corresponding effect on the
demand for agricultural equipment in many areas of the world.

In the United States, the 2007 Farm Bill may significantly affect
prices for farm commodities, particularly corn, cotton and rice, and this in
turn could affect farmers’ demand for the Company’s products and services.

The policies of the Brazilian government (including those related to
exchange rates and commodity prices) could significantly change the dynamics of
the agricultural economy in that country.

Changing Demand for Farm Outputs.  Changing
worldwide demand for food and the demand for different forms of bio-energy
could have an effect on prices for farm commodities and consequently the demand
for the Company’s agricultural equipment.

Globalization.  The continuing globalization of agricultural
businesses may significantly change the dynamics of the Company’s competition,
customer base and product offerings.  The
Company’s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent on its
success in developing geographic markets.

Economic Condition and Outlook.  General economic conditions
can affect the demand for the Company’s equipment as well.  Negative economic conditions or a negative
outlook, for example, can decrease housing starts and other construction and
dampen demand for equipment.  Weakness in
the overall farm economy can have a similar effect on agricultural equipment
sales.

Consumer Attitudes.  The confidence the Company’s customers have
in the general economic outlook can have a significant effect on their
propensity to purchase equipment and, consequently, on the Company’s
sales.  The Company’s ability to match
its new product offerings to its customers’ anticipated preferences for
different types and sizes of equipment is important as well.

Weather.  Poor or unusual weather conditions,
particularly in the spring, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions
of the Company’s customers, particularly the customers of the agricultural and
commercial and consumer segments.  Sales
in the important spring selling season can have a dramatic effect on the
commercial and consumer segment’s financial results.

Raw Material Costs.  Changes in the availability and price of raw
materials (such as steel, rubber and fuel) used in the production of the
Company’s equipment could have an effect on its costs of production and, in
turn, on the success of the business.

Interest Rates and Credit Ratings.  If
interest rates rise, they could have a dampening effect on overall economic
activity and could affect the demand for the Company’s equipment.  In addition, funding costs are very important
to the Company’s credit segment. 
Decisions and actions by credit rating agencies can affect the
availability and cost of funding for the Company.  Credit rating downgrades or negative changes
to ratings outlooks can increase the Company’s cost of capital and hurt its
competitive position.  Guidance from rating
agencies as to acceptable leverage can affect the Company’s returns as well.

The risks identified above should be considered in conjunction with
Management’s Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 18, and,
specifically,  the other risks described
in the Safe Harbor Statement on pages 20 and 21.   The Company’s results of operations may be
affected by these identified risks and/or by risks not currently contemplated.


 11 



 


 

ITEM 1B