ITEM 1A.                                         RISK FACTORS.
 
The following risks are considered the most significant to John Deere’s business based upon current knowledge, information and assumptions. This discussion of risk factors should be considered closely in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 21, including the risks and uncertainties described in the Safe Harbor Statement on pages 23 through 25, and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 36. These risk factors and other forward-looking statements that relate to future events, expectations, trends and operating periods involve certain factors that are subject to change, and important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the Company’s businesses. Although each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. The Company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise this risk factors discussion, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the “Safe Harbor Statement” in this report, are not the only risks faced by the Company.  Additional risks and uncertainties may also materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. You should not consider these risk factors to be a complete discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
 
International, national and regional trade laws, regulations and policies (particularly those related to or restricting global trade) and government farm programs and policies, could significantly impair John Deere’s profitability and growth prospects.
 
International, national and regional laws, regulations and policies directly or indirectly related to or restricting trade, including protectionist policies in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of favored industries or sectors, could harm John Deere’s multinational business. John Deere’s profitability and growth prospects are tied directly to the global marketplace. Restricted access to global markets impairs John Deere’s ability to export goods and services from its various manufacturing locations around the world, and limits the ability to access raw materials and high quality parts and components at competitive prices on a timely basis. While trade agreements may expand opportunities, trade restrictions could limit John Deere’s ability to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities in international markets and impair John Deere’s ability to expand the business by offering new technologies, products and services. Furthermore, the ability to export agricultural and forestry commodities is critical to John Deere’s agricultural and forestry customers. Policies impacting exchange rates and commodity prices or those limiting the export or import of commodities, including the outcome of the global negotiations under the auspices of the World Trade Organization, could have a material adverse effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities which may result in a corresponding negative effect on the demand for agricultural and forestry equipment in many areas of the world. John Deere’s agricultural equipment sales could be especially harmed because farm income strongly influences sales of agricultural equipment around the world. Furthermore, trade restrictions could impede those in developing countries from achieving a higher standard of living, which could negatively impact John Deere’s future growth opportunities arising from increasing global demand for food, fuel and infrastructure. Furthermore, changes in government farm programs and policies, including direct payment and other subsidies, can significantly influence demand for agricultural equipment.
 
Changes in government banking, monetary and fiscal policies could have a negative effect on John Deere.
 
Policies of the U.S. and other governments regarding banking, monetary and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity, stabilize financial markets and/or address local deficit or structural economic issues may not be effective and could have a material impact on John Deere’s customers and markets. John Deere’s operations and results could also be impacted by financial regulatory reform which could have an adverse affect on the financial services segment and John Deere’s customers by limiting their ability to finance purchases of John Deere products. Governmental policies on taxes and spending can also affect John Deere, especially the construction and forestry segment due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure development.
 
Changing worldwide demand for food and for different forms of bio-energy could have an effect on the price of farm commodities and consequently the demand for certain John Deere equipment and could also result in higher research and development costs related to changing machine fuel requirements.
 
Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world’s growing food and bio-energy demands, driven in part by government policies and a growing world population, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which directly affect sales of agricultural equipment. While higher commodity prices will benefit John Deere’s crop producing agricultural equipment customers, higher commodity prices also result in greater feed costs for livestock and poultry producers which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by these customers. Furthermore, changing bio-fuel demands may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they raise, with corresponding changes in equipment demands. Finally, changes in governmental policies regulating bio-fuel utilization could affect demand for John Deere’s gasoline- or diesel-fueled equipment and result in higher research and development costs related to equipment fuel standards.
 
11






Table of Contents
 
As John Deere seeks to expand its business globally, growth opportunities may be impacted by greater political, economic and social uncertainty and the continuing and accelerating globalization of businesses could significantly change the dynamics of John Deere’s competition, customer base and product offerings.
 
John Deere’s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent upon access to, and its success in developing market share and operating profitably in, additional geographic markets including but not limited to Brazil, China, India and Russia. In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions and differing local customer product preferences and requirements than John Deere’s other markets. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes John Deere to multiple and potentially conflicting cultural practices, business practices and legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, property ownership rights, taxation and repatriation of earnings and advanced technologies. Expanding business operations globally also increases exposure to currency fluctuations which can materially affect the Company’s financial results. As these emerging geographic markets become more important to John Deere, its competitors are also seeking to expand their production capacities and sales in these same markets. While John Deere maintains a positive corporate image and the John Deere brand is widely recognized and valued in its traditional markets, the brand is less well known in some emerging markets which could impede John Deere’s efforts to successfully compete in these markets. Although John Deere is taking measures to adapt to these changing circumstances, John Deere’s reputation and/or business results could be negatively affected should these efforts prove unsuccessful.
 
John Deere operates in highly competitive markets.
 
John Deere operates in a variety of highly competitive global and regional markets. John Deere competes worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. John Deere competes on the basis of product performance, innovation and quality, distribution, customer service and price. Aggressive pricing or other strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing delays or John Deere’s failure to price its products competitively could adversely affect John Deere’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
John Deere is subject to extensive anti-corruption laws and regulations.
 
John Deere’s international operations must comply with U.S. law, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).  The FCPA and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business regardless of whether those practices are legal or culturally expected in the foreign jurisdiction.  Recently, there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws.  Although John Deere has a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of such laws, violations of these laws could result in criminal or civil sanctions and an adverse effect on John Deere’s reputation, business and results of operations and financial condition.
 
Negative economic conditions and outlook can  materially weaken demand for John Deere’s equipment and services, limit access to funding and result in higher funding costs.
 
The demand for John Deere’s products and services can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by high unemployment, cautious consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower business investment. Negative or uncertain economic conditions causing John Deere’s customers to lack confidence in the general economic outlook can significantly reduce their propensity to purchase John Deere’s equipment. Sustained or negative economic conditions and outlook affect housing starts and other construction which dampens demand for certain construction equipment. John Deere’s turf operations and its construction and forestry segment are dependent on construction activity and general economic conditions. Sustained low levels or decreases in construction activity and housing starts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. If negative economic conditions affect the overall farm economy, there could be a similar effect on John Deere’s agricultural equipment sales. In addition, negative or uncertain economic conditions and outlook can cause significant changes in capital market liquidity conditions. Such changes could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce the Company’s earnings and cash flows. Additionally, the Company’s investment management activities could be adversely affected by changes in the equity and bond markets, which would negatively affect earnings.
 
Concerns regarding the European debt crisis and market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro, the potential re-introduction of individual currencies within the Eurozone, or the potential dissolution of the euro entirely, could adversely affect John Deere’s business, results of operations and financing.
 
Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. Should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of the
 
12






Table of Contents
 
Company’s euro- denominated assets and obligations. In addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally, and more specifically on the ability of the Company and John Deere’s customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials and on the demand for John Deere products.
 
The Company’s consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars while certain assets and other reported items are denominated in the currencies of other countries, creating currency translation risk.
 
John Deere operates in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies.  John Deere is subject to currency exchange risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues.  Additionally, the reporting currency for the Company’s consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of John Deere’s assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in other countries’ currencies. Those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates to prepare the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, increases or decreases in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies affect the value of those items as reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, even if their value remains unchanged in their original currency. Substantial fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar could have a significant impact on John Deere’s results.
 
Because the financial services segment provides financing for a significant portion of John Deere sales worldwide, John Deere’s operations and financial results could be impacted materially should negative economic conditions affect the financial industry.
 
In recent years, negative economic conditions have frequently had an adverse effect on the financial industry in which the financial services segment operates. The financial services segment provides financing for a significant portion of John Deere’s sales worldwide. The financial services segment is exposed to the credit risk of its various counterparties. The financial services segment may experience credit losses that exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The financial services segment’s inability to access funds or to access funds at cost effective rates to support its financing activities to John Deere’s customers could have a material adverse effect on John Deere’s business. The financial services segment’s liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital to meet future cash flow requirements and fund operations and the costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. Additionally, negative market conditions could reduce customer confidence levels, resulting in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact the financial services segment’s write-offs and provision for credit losses.
 
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Act), and the regulations implementing the Act, could impose additional supervisory, financial and reporting requirements and compliance costs on John Deere and John Deere’s financial services operations and could therefore adversely affect John Deere and its financial services segment.
 
The Act was enacted on July 21, 2010 to broadly reform practices in the financial services industry, including equipment financing and securitizations. The Act directs federal agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the U.S. Federal Reserve Board, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and others, to adopt rules to regulate depository institutions, non-bank financial institutions, thrift holding companies, the consumer finance industry and the capital markets, including certain commercial transactions such as derivatives contracts. Although the effects of the Act on the capital markets and the financial industry are largely unknown until regulations have been finalized and implemented, the Act and its regulations are expected to impose additional reporting requirements, leverage, capital and other supervisory and financial standards and restrictions that increase regulatory-related compliance costs for John Deere and John Deere’s financial services operations and could adversely affect John Deere and its financial services segment’s funding activities, liquidity, structure (including relationships with affiliates), operations and performance. The U.S. Federal Reserve Board has recently proposed capital requirements for certain institutions including thrift holding companies.  Under the proposed rules, certain risk-based capital levels would need to be maintained in order to avoid the imposition of new restrictions on making dividends and other capital payouts.  Moreover, our operations, including those outside of the United States, could also be impacted by non-U.S. regulatory reforms, including Basel III, being implemented to further regulate non-U.S. financial institutions and markets.
 
John Deere’s business results depend largely on its ability to understand its customers’ specific preferences and requirements, and to develop, manufacture and market products that meet customer demand.
 
John Deere’s ability to match new product offerings to diverse global customers’ anticipated preferences for different types and sizes of equipment and various equipment features and functionality, at affordable prices, is critical to its success. This requires a thorough understanding of John Deere’s existing and potential customers on a global basis, particularly in potential high growth markets, including Brazil, China, India and Russia. Failure to deliver quality products that meet customer needs at competitive prices ahead of competitors could have a significant adverse effect on John Deere’s business.
 
13







Table of Contents
 
John Deere’s business may be directly and indirectly affected by unfavorable weather conditions or natural disasters that reduce agricultural production and demand for agricultural and turf equipment.
 
Poor or unusual weather conditions, particularly during the planting and early growing season, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of John Deere’s customers, particularly the purchasers of agriculture and turf equipment. The timing and quantity of rainfall are two of the most important factors in agricultural production. Insufficient levels of rain prevent farmers from planting new crops and may cause growing crops to die or result in lower yields. Excessive rain or flooding can also prevent planting from occurring at optimal times, and may cause crop loss through increased disease or mold growth. Temperatures outside normal ranges can also cause crop failure or decreased yields, and may also affect disease incidence. Temperature affects the rate of growth, crop maturity and crop quality. Natural calamities such as regional floods, hurricanes or other storms, and droughts can have significant negative effects on agricultural production. The resulting negative impact on farm income can strongly affect demand for agricultural equipment. In addition, poor or unusual weather conditions at critical periods in the planting, growing or harvesting seasons can impact the profitability of crop risk mitigation products. Sales of turf equipment, particularly during the important spring selling season, can be dramatically impacted by weather. Adverse weather conditions in a particular geographic region may adversely affect sales of some turf equipment. Drought conditions can adversely affect sales of certain mowing equipment and unusually rainy weather can similarly cause lower sales volumes.
 
Changes in the availability and price of certain raw materials, components and whole goods could result in production disruptions or increased costs and lower profits on sales of John Deere products.
 
John Deere requires access to various raw materials, components and whole goods at competitive prices to manufacture and distribute its products. Changes in the availability and price of these raw materials, components and whole goods, which have fluctuated significantly in the past and which are more likely to occur during times of economic volatility, can significantly increase the costs of production which could have a material negative effect on the profitability of the business, particularly if John Deere, due to pricing considerations or other factors, was unable to recover the increased costs from its customers. John Deere relies on suppliers to acquire raw materials, components and whole goods required to manufacture its products. Certain components and parts used in John Deere’s products are available from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly. Supply chain disruptions due to supplier financial viability, capacity constraints, business continuity, quality, delivery, or disruptions due to weather related or natural disaster events could affect John Deere’s operations and profitability.
 
John Deere’s equipment operations and financial services segment are subject to interest rate risks. Changes in interest rates can reduce demand for equipment, adversely affect interest margins and limit the ability to access capital markets while increasing borrowing costs.
 
Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of John Deere’s customers, either or both of which could negatively affect customer demand for John Deere equipment and customers’ ability to repay obligations to John Deere. In addition, credit market dislocations, including as a result of Eurozone concerns, could have an impact on funding costs which are very important to John Deere’s financial services segment because such costs affect the segment’s ability to offer customers competitive financing rates. In addition, changing interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company’s net interest rate margin—the difference between the yield the Company earns on its assets and the interest rates the Company pays for funding, which could in turn affect the Company’s net interest income and earnings. Actions by credit rating agencies, such as downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks, can affect the availability and cost of funding for the Company and can increase the Company’s cost of capital and hurt its competitive position.
 
John Deere’s operations are subject to and affected by increasingly rigorous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over John Deere’s international operations. In addition, private civil litigation on these subjects has increased, primarily in the U.S.
 
Enforcement actions arising from violations of environmental, health and safety laws or regulations can lead to investigation and defense costs, and result in significant fines or penalties. In addition, new or more stringent requirements of governmental authorities could prevent or restrict John Deere’s operations, require significant expenditures to achieve compliance and/or give rise to civil or criminal liability. There can be no assurance that violations of such legislation and/or regulations, or private civil claims for damages to property or personal injury arising from the environmental, health or safety impacts of John Deere’s operations, would not have consequences that result in a material adverse effect on John Deere’s business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
Increasingly stringent engine emission standards could impact John Deere’s ability to manufacture and distribute certain engines or equipment which could negatively affect business results.
 
John Deere’s equipment operations must meet increasingly stringent engine emission reduction standards, including USEPA, Interim Tier 4, Final Tier 4 and EU Stage IIIb and Stage IV non-road diesel emission requirements. These standards are applicable to many engines manufactured by John Deere and used in many models of John Deere agricultural and construction and forestry equipment. In order to meet these standards, John Deere has incurred and continues to incur substantial research and development costs and is introducing many new equipment models, largely due to the implementation of these more rigorous standards. While John Deere has developed and is executing comprehensive plans to meet these requirements, and does not currently foresee significant obstacles that
 
14






Table of Contents
 
would prevent timely compliance, these plans are subject to many variables that could delay or otherwise affect John Deere’s ability to manufacture and distribute certain equipment or engines, which could negatively impact business results.
 
John Deere may incur increased costs due to new or more stringent greenhouse gas emission standards designed to address climate change and could be further impacted by physical effects attributed to climate change on its facilities, suppliers and customers.
 
There is a growing political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHG”) continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue to affect the global climate. These considerations may lead to international, national, regional or local legislative or regulatory responses in the future. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, including John Deere, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. The regulation of GHG emissions from certain stationary or mobile sources could result in additional costs to John Deere in the form of taxes or emission allowances, facilities improvements and energy costs (which would increase John Deere’s operating costs through higher utility, transportation and materials costs). The regulation of GHG emissions from non-road sources could require further changes to the design of John Deere’s engines and equipment. Increased input costs, such as fuel and fertilizer, and compliance-related costs could also impact customer operations and demand for John Deere equipment. Because the impact of any future GHG legislative, regulatory or product standard requirements on John Deere’s global businesses and products is dependent on the timing and design of the mandates or standards, John Deere is unable to predict its significance at this time.
 
Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of climate change on John Deere’s facilities, suppliers and customers, and therefore on John Deere’s operations, are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions. These may include changes in weather patterns (including drought and rainfall levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, and temperature levels. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the demand for John Deere’s products and the cost, production, sales and financial performance of John Deere’s operations.
 
Sustained increases in funding obligations under the Company’s pension plans may impair our liquidity or financial condition.
 
The Company maintains certain defined benefit pension plans for certain employees, which impose on us funding obligations. The Company uses many assumptions in calculating its future payment obligations under the plans. Significant adverse changes in credit or market conditions could result in actual rates of returns being lower than expected. The Company may be required to make significant contributions to its pension plans in the future. These factors could significantly increase the Company’s payment obligations under the plans and adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
The reallocation of radio frequency (RF) spectrums could disrupt or degrade the reliability of John Deere’s high precision augmented Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, which could impair John Deere’s ability to develop and market GPS-based technology solutions as well as significantly reduce agricultural and construction customers’ profitability.
 
John Deere’s current and planned integrated agricultural business and equipment management systems, as well as its fleet management telematics solutions for construction equipment, depend upon the use of RF signals. These signals include, but are not limited to, GPS signals, other GPS-like satellite signals, augmented GPS services and other RF equipment which link equipment, operations, owners, dealers and technicians. These radio services depend on frequency allocations governed by international and national agencies. Any international or national reallocation of frequency bands, including frequency bands segmentation and band spectrum sharing, or other modifications concerning the regulation of frequency bands, could significantly disrupt or degrade the utility and reliability of John Deere’s GPS-based products, which could negatively affect John Deere’s ability to develop and market GPS-based technology solutions. For John Deere’s agricultural customers, the inability to use high-precision augmented GPS signals (or other RF signals) could result in lower crop yields and higher equipment maintenance, seed, fertilizer, fuel and wage costs. For construction customers, disrupting GPS (or RF) applications could result in higher fuel and equipment maintenance costs, as well as lower construction design and project management efficiencies. These cost increases could significantly reduce customers’ profitability and demand for John Deere products.
 
Security breaches and other disruptions to John Deere’s information technology infrastructure could interfere with John Deere’s operations, and could compromise John Deere’s and its customers’ and suppliers’ information, exposing John Deere to liability which would cause John Deere’s business and reputation to suffer.
 
In the ordinary course of business, John Deere relies upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing, and collection of payments from dealers or other purchasers of John Deere equipment and from customers of John Deere’s financial services operations. John Deere uses information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Additionally, John Deere collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the proprietary business information of our customers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of John Deere’s customers and employees, in data centers and on information
 
15






Table of Contents
 
technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to John Deere’s business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, John Deere’s information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise John Deere’s networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations, and damage John Deere’s reputation, which could adversely affect John Deere’s business.
 
ITEM 1B