ITEM 1A.              RISK
FACTORS.

 

Governmental Actions. The Company’s agricultural business is exposed to a
variety of risks and uncertainties related to the action or inaction of
governmental bodies. The outcome of the global negotiations under the auspices
of the World Trade Organization could have a material effect on the
international flow of agricultural commodities which may result in a
corresponding effect on the demand for agricultural equipment in many areas of
the world. The policies of the Brazilian government (including those related to
exchange rates and commodity prices) and Argentine government could
significantly change the dynamics of the agricultural economy in South America.
With respect to the current global economic downturn, changes in governmental
banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase the
availability of credit may not be effective and could have a material impact on
the Company’s customers and markets.

 

In addition, to the extent that the Company participates in
governmental programs designed to address current conditions, both in the U.S.
and outside the U.S., there is no assurance such programs will remain available
for sufficient periods of time or on acceptable terms to benefit the Company,
and the expiration of such programs could have unintended adverse effects. In
addition, certain competitors may be eligible for certain programs that the
Company is ineligible for, which may create a competitive disadvantage.

 

The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was
signed into law on October 3, 2008 to stabilize and provide liquidity to
U.S. financial markets. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact of
the implementing regulations of the EESA, or any other governmental program, on
the financial markets. The Company’s business, financial condition, results of
operations, access to credit, and trading price of common stock could be
materially and adversely affected if the financial markets fail to stabilize,
or if current financial market conditions worsen.

 

8












 

The Company may also become subject to additional restrictions pursuant
to participation in the EESA’s specific programs. For example, John Deere’s
participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program will require
the payment of certain fees to the FDIC. The costs of participation or
non-participation in any such program, as well as the effect of such programs
on the Company’s results of operations, cannot be reliably determined at this
time.

 

Changing Demand for Farm Outputs.
Changing worldwide demand for food and the demand for different forms of
bio-energy could have an effect on prices for farm commodities and consequently
the demand for the Company’s agricultural equipment. In addition, global
economic conditions may have an impact on commodity prices.

 

Globalization. The
continuing globalization of agricultural businesses may significantly change
the dynamics of the Company’s competition, customer base and product offerings.
The Company’s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent on access
to, and its success in developing market share and operating profitably in,
additional geographic markets including but not limited to Brazil, Russia,
India and China. In some cases, these countries have greater political and
economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor
disruptions. Operating in a large number of different regions and countries
exposes the Company to multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to
change; increased exposure to currency fluctuations; differing local product
preferences and product requirements; differing labor regulations and differing
tax laws. Simultaneously, these emerging markets are becoming more competitive
as other international companies grow globally and local low cost manufacturers
expand their production capacities.

 

Economic Condition and Outlook. Recent significant changes in market
liquidity conditions could impact access to funding and associated funding
costs, which could reduce the Company’s earnings and cash flows. The Company’s
investment management operations could be adversely impacted by changes in the
equity and bond markets, which would negatively affect earnings. General
economic conditions can affect the demand for the Company’s equipment. Current
negative economic conditions and outlook have decreased housing starts and
other construction and dampened demand for certain construction equipment. The
Company’s commercial and consumer equipment and construction and forestry
segments are dependent on construction activity and general economic
conditions. A significant or prolonged decline in construction activity and
housing starts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations if current economic difficulties, as well as depressed housing markets,
continue into the foreseeable future. If current economic conditions extend to
the overall farm economy, there could be a similar effect on agricultural
equipment sales.

 

The volatility in global financial markets has reached unprecedented
levels. Global financial market downturns began in the second half of 2007, and
significantly increased during the fourth quarter of 2008. Volatile oil prices,
falling equity market values, declining business, weakened consumer confidence,
and risks of increased inflation and deflation and increased unemployment rates
have created fears of a severe recession. Conditions in the global financial
markets and general economy materially affect the Company’s results of
operations. The demand for the Company’s products and services could be
adversely affected in an economic crisis characterized by higher unemployment,
lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings, and lower business
investment.

 

Currency Fluctuations.
The reporting currency for the Company’s consolidated financial statements is
the U.S. dollar. Certain of the Company’s assets, liabilities, expenses and
revenues are denominated in other countries’ currencies. Those assets,
liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at the
applicable exchange rates to prepare the Company’s consolidated financial
statements. Therefore, increases or decreases in exchange rates between the
U.S. dollar and those other currencies affect the value of those items as
reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, even if their
value remains unchanged in their original currency. Substantial fluctuations in
the value of the U.S. dollar could have a continuing and significant impact on
the Company’s results.

 

Risks to Financial Services Segment. The current economic downturn and
market volatility have adversely affected the financial industry in which the
credit segment operates. The credit segment provides financing to a significant
portion of John Deere sales worldwide. The credit segment’s inability to access
funds to support its financing activities to the Company’s customers could have
a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The credit segment’s
liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital
to meet future cash flow requirements and fund operations and the costs
associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. In recent weeks,
the credit markets have reached unprecedented levels of volatility, resulting
in reduced levels of liquidity and disruption of domestic and foreign financial
markets. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or
worsen, funding could be unavailable or insufficient. Additionally, under
current market conditions customer confidence levels may result in declines in
credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which
could materially impact the credit segment’s write-offs and provisions for
credit losses.

 

Consumer Attitudes.
The confidence the Company’s customers have in the general economic outlook can
have a significant effect on their propensity to purchase equipment and,
consequently, on the Company’s sales. Current negative economic conditions
could significantly impair customer confidence. The Company’s ability to match its
new product offerings to its customers’ anticipated preferences for enhanced
technologies and different types and sizes of equipment is important as well.

 

9












 

Weather. Poor or
unusual weather conditions, particularly in the spring, can significantly
affect the purchasing decisions of the Company’s customers, particularly the
customers of the agricultural and commercial and consumer segments. Sales in
the important spring selling season can have a dramatic effect on the
commercial and consumer segment’s financial results.

 

Supply Base and Raw Material Costs.
Many of the Company’s suppliers also supply the automotive industry. The severe
downturn in automotive sales and the weak financial condition of some major
automakers could cause these suppliers to face severe financial hardship and
disrupt the Company’s access to critical components. Changes in the
availability and price of raw materials, which are more likely to occur during
times of economic volatility, could have a material negative impact on the
Company’s costs of production and, in turn, on the profitability of the
business.

 

Interest Rates and Credit Ratings.
If interest rates rise, they could have a dampening effect on overall economic
activity and could affect the demand for the Company’s equipment. In addition,
credit market dislocations could have an impact on funding costs which are very
important to the Company’s credit segment. Decisions and actions by credit
rating agencies can affect the availability and cost of funding for the
Company. Credit rating downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks can
increase the Company’s cost of capital and hurt its competitive position.
Guidance from rating agencies as to acceptable leverage can affect the Company’s
returns as well.

 

Environmental. The Company’s operations are subject to
and affected by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations by
federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory
authorities with jurisdiction over the Company’s foreign operations.
Violations of such laws or regulations can lead to investigation and
remediation costs, significant fines or penalties. In addition, increased
requirements of governmental authorities, and claims for damages to property or
injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health or safety impacts of
the Company’s operations or past contamination, could prevent or restrict the
Company’s operations, require significant expenditures to achieve compliance,
involve the imposition of cleanup liens and/or give rise to civil or criminal
liability. There can be no assurance that violations of such legislation and/or
regulations, which could result in enforcement actions or private claims would
not have consequences that result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business, financial condition or results of operations.

 

Climate Change.  There is a growing
political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHG”)
continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are
affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. Various
stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and
non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors
are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. There is growing consensus that
some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect
to greenhouse gas emissions and such regulation could result in the creation of
additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. The impact of any
future mandatory GHG legislative or regulatory requirements on the Company’s
businesses and products is dependent on the design of the mandate, and so the
Company is unable to predict its significance at this time.

 

Furthermore,
the potential physical impacts of climate change on the Company’s customers,
and therefore on the Company’s operations, are highly uncertain, and will be
particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions.
These may include changes in weather patterns (including drought and rainfall
levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, and temperature
levels. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the cost, production
and financial performance of John Deere’s operations.

 

The risks identified above should be
considered in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis beginning
on page 15 and, specifically, the other risks described in the Safe Harbor
Statement on pages 17 and 18. The Company’s results of operations may be
affected by these identified risks and/or by risks not currently contemplated.

 

ITEM 1B