Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Safe Harbor Statement” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Products
 
Deere & Company (the Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively, John Deere) have operations that are categorized into three major business segments.
 
The agriculture and turf segment primarily manufactures and distributes a full line of agriculture and turf equipment and related service parts — including large, medium and utility tractors; loaders; combines, cotton pickers, cotton strippers, and sugarcane harvesters; related front-end harvesting equipment; sugarcane loaders and pull-behind scrapers; tillage, seeding and application equipment, including sprayers, nutrient management and soil preparation machinery; hay and forage equipment, including self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers and mowers; turf and utility equipment, including riding lawn equipment and walk-behind mowers, golf course equipment, utility vehicles, and commercial mowing equipment, along with a broad line of associated implements; integrated agricultural management systems technology and solutions; and other outdoor power products.
 
The construction and forestry segment primarily manufactures and distributes a broad range of machines and service parts used in construction, earthmoving, material handling and timber harvesting — including backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators; motor graders; articulated dump trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; and log skidders, feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and related attachments.
 
The products and services produced by the segments above are marketed primarily through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.
 
The financial services segment primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new and used agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment. In addition, the financial services segment provides wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment, finances retail revolving charge accounts and offers extended equipment warranties.
 
John Deere’s worldwide agriculture and turf operations and construction and forestry operations are sometimes collectively referred to as the “equipment operations.” The financial services segment is sometimes referred to as the “financial services operations.”
 
Additional information is presented in the discussion of business segment and geographic area results on page 23. The John Deere enterprise has manufactured agricultural machinery since 1837. The present Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958.
 
The Company’s internet address is http://www.JohnDeere.com. Through that address, the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (Securities and Exchange Commission or Commission). The information contained on the Company’s website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K.
 
Market Conditions and Outlook
 
The Company’s equipment sales are projected to decrease 1 percent for fiscal year 2017 and decrease about 4 percent for the first quarter, compared with the same periods in 2016. Included in the forecast is a positive foreign currency translation effect of about 1 percent for the year and about 2 percent for the quarter. For fiscal year 2017, net income attributable to Deere & Company is anticipated to be about $1.4 billion.  In December 2016, the Company sold a portion of its interest in SiteOne Landscape Supply, Inc. (SiteOne) (see Note 30) resulting in a gain of approximately $105 million pretax or $66 million after-tax. This gain is not included in the fiscal year 2017 net income forecast above.
 
During the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company announced voluntary employee separation programs as part of its effort to reduce operating costs. The expense of these programs is recorded in the period in which employees accept their separation offer. Total pretax expenses related to the programs are estimated to be $111 million, of which $11 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2016, and $100 million will be recorded primarily in the first quarter of 2017. Savings from the separation programs are expected to be approximately $70 million in 2017.
 
2






 
Agriculture & Turf. The Company’s worldwide sales of agriculture and turf equipment are forecast to decrease by about 1 percent for fiscal year 2017, including a positive currency translation effect of about 1 percent. Industry sales for agricultural equipment in the U.S. and Canada are forecast to be down 5 to 10 percent for 2017. The decline, which reflects the continuing impact of low commodity prices and weak farm incomes, is expected to be felt in the sale of both large and small models of equipment.
 
Full year 2017 industry sales in the EU28 member nations are forecast to decline about 5 percent, with the decline attributable to low commodity prices and farm incomes. South American industry sales of tractors and combines are projected to increase about 15 percent as a result of improving economic and political conditions in Brazil and Argentina. Asian sales are projected to be about the same to up slightly, benefiting from higher sales in India. Industry sales of turf and utility equipment in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be about the same for 2017, with company sales outpacing the industry.
 
Construction & Forestry. The Company’s construction and forestry equipment sales are forecast to increase about 1 percent for 2017, including a positive currency translation effect of about 1 percent. The forecast reflects the impact of generally slow economic growth worldwide. In forestry, global industry sales are expected to be about the same as in 2016 with some moderation in the North American market.
 
Financial Services. Fiscal year 2017 net income attributable to Deere & Company for the financial services operations is expected to be approximately $480 million. The outlook reflects lower losses on lease residual values, partially offset by less favorable financing spreads and an increased provision for credit losses.
 
2016 Consolidated Results Compared with 2015
 
Worldwide net income attributable to Deere & Company in 2016 was $1,524 million, or $4.81 per share diluted ($4.83 basic), compared with $1,940 million, or $5.77 per share diluted ($5.81 basic), in 2015. Worldwide net sales and revenues decreased 8 percent to $26,644 million in 2016, compared with $28,863 million in 2015. Net sales of the worldwide equipment operations declined 9 percent in 2016 to $23,387 million from $25,775 million last year. Sales included price realization of 2 percent and an unfavorable currency translation effect of 2 percent. Equipment net sales in the United States and Canada decreased 13 percent for 2016. Outside the U.S. and Canada, net sales decreased 3 percent for the year, with an unfavorable currency translation effect of 4 percent for 2016.
 
Worldwide equipment operations had an operating profit of $1,880 million in 2016, compared with $2,177 million in 2015. The operating profit decline was primarily on account of reduced shipment volumes, the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange and a less favorable product mix, partially offset by price realization, lower production costs, lower selling, administrative and general expenses and a gain on the sale of a partial interest in the unconsolidated affiliate SiteOne.
 
Net income of the Company’s equipment operations was $1,058 million for 2016, compared with $1,308 million in 2015. In addition to the operating factors mentioned above, a higher effective tax rate in 2016 reduced net income.
 
Net income of the financial services operations attributable to Deere & Company in 2016 decreased to $468 million, compared with $633 million in 2015. The decline was primarily due to less favorable financing spreads, higher losses on lease residual values, and a higher provision for credit losses. Prior year results benefited from a gain on the sale of the crop insurance business
 
The cost of sales to net sales ratio for 2016 was 78.0 percent, compared with 78.1 percent last year. The decrease was due primarily to price realization and lower production costs, largely offset by the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange and the impact of a less favorable product mix.
 
Additional information on 2016 results is presented on pages 22-24.
 
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS
 
Agriculture and Turf
 
The John Deere agriculture and turf segment manufactures and distributes a full line of agriculture and turf equipment and related service parts. The segment consolidates all markets into four geographical customer focus areas to facilitate deep customer understanding and deliver world-class customer service. The segment’s equipment operations are consolidated into five product platforms — crop harvesting (combines, cotton pickers, cotton strippers, and sugarcane harvesters, related front-end harvesting equipment, sugarcane loaders and pull-behind scrapers); turf and utility (utility vehicles, riding lawn equipment, walk-behind mowers, commercial mowing equipment, golf course equipment, implements for mowing,tilling, snow and debris handling, aerating and many other residential, commercial, golf and sports turf care applications and other outdoor power products); hay and forage (self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers and mowers); crop care (tillage, seeding and application equipment, including sprayers, nutrient management and soil preparation machinery); and tractors (loaders and large, medium and utility tractors and related attachments). John Deere also purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale.
 
3






 
The segment also provides integrated agricultural business and equipment management systems. John Deere has developed a comprehensive agricultural management systems approach using advanced communications, data collection and global satellite positioning technologies to enable farmers to better control input costs and yields, improve soil conservation, minimize chemical use, and to gather information. John Deere’s advanced telematics systems remotely connect agricultural equipment owners, business managers and dealers to agricultural equipment in the field, providing real-time alerts and information about equipment location, utilization, performance and maintenance to improve productivity and efficiency.
 
In addition to the John Deere brand, the agriculture and turf segment purchases and sells a variety of equipment attachments under the Frontier, Kemper and Green Systems brand names, and manufactures and sells walk-behind mowers and scarifiers in select European countries under the SABO brand name. John Deere manufactures its agriculture and turf equipment for sale primarily through independent retail dealer networks, and also builds turf products for sale by mass retailers, including The Home Depot and Lowe’s.
 
Sales of agricultural equipment are affected by total farm cash receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields and government policies, including the amount and timing of government payments. Sales are also influenced by general economic conditions, farm land prices, farmers’ debt levels and access to financing, interest and exchange rates, agricultural trends, including the production of and demand for renewable fuels, labor availability and costs, energy costs, tax policies and other input costs associated with farming. Other important factors affecting new agricultural equipment sales are the value and level of used equipment, including tractors, harvesting equipment, self-propelled sprayers, hay and forage equipment and seeding equipment. Weather and climatic conditions can also affect buying decisions of agricultural equipment purchasers.
 
Innovations in machinery and technology also influence agricultural equipment purchasing. For example, larger, more productive equipment is well accepted where farmers are striving for more efficiency in their operations. Large, cost-efficient, highly-mechanized agricultural operations account for an important share of worldwide farm output. The large-size agricultural equipment used on such farms has been particularly important to John Deere. A large proportion of the equipment operations’ total agricultural equipment sales in the U.S. and Canada, and a significant proportion of sales in many countries outside the U.S. and Canada, comprises tractors over 100 horsepower, self-propelled combines, self-propelled cotton pickers, self-propelled forage harvesters, self-propelled sprayers and seeding equipment. However, John Deere’s sales of small tractors below 100 horsepower are increasing, and John Deere offers a number of harvesting solutions to support development of the mechanized harvesting of grain, oilseeds, cotton, sugar and biomass.
 
Retail sales of lawn and garden tractors, compact utility tractors, residential and commercial mowers, utility vehicles, and golf and turf equipment are influenced by weather conditions, consumer spending patterns and general economic conditions.
 
Seasonality. Seasonal patterns in retail demand for agricultural equipment result in substantial variations in the volume and mix of products sold to retail customers during the year. Seasonal demand must be estimated in advance, and equipment must be manufactured in anticipation of such demand in order to achieve efficient utilization of manpower and facilities throughout the year. For certain equipment, John Deere offers early order discounts to retail customers. Production schedules are based, in part, on these early order programs. The segment incurs substantial seasonal variation in cash flows to finance production and inventory of agricultural equipment. The segment also incurs costs to finance sales to dealers in advance of seasonal demand. New combine and cotton harvesting equipment has been sold under early order programs with waivers of retail finance charges available to customers who take delivery of machines during off-season periods. In Australia, Canada and the U.S., there are typically several used equipment trade-in transactions as part of most new agricultural equipment sales. To provide support to its dealers for these used equipment trade-ins, John Deere provides dealers in these countries with a pool of funds, awarded to dealers as a percentage of the dealer cost for eligible new equipment sales. Dealers can use these funds to defray the costs of carrying or marketing used equipment inventory or to provide financing incentives to customers purchasing the used equipment.
 
Retail demand for turf and utility equipment is normally higher in the second and third fiscal quarters. John Deere has pursued a strategy of building and shipping such equipment as close to retail demand as possible. Consequently, to increase asset turnover and reduce the average level of field inventories through the year, production and shipment schedules of these product lines are normally proportionately higher in the second and third fiscal quarters of each year, corresponding closely to the seasonal pattern of retail sales.
 
4






 
Construction and Forestry
 
John Deere’s construction and forestry equipment includes a broad range of backhoe loaders, crawler dozers and loaders, four-wheel-drive loaders, excavators, motor graders, articulated dump trucks, landscape loaders, skid-steer loaders, log skidders, log feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and a variety of attachments. John Deere provides a broad line of construction equipment and the most complete line of forestry machines and attachments available in the world. The construction and forestry machines are distributed under the John Deere brand name, and forestry attachments are distributed under the John Deere and Waratah brand names. In addition to the equipment manufactured by the construction and forestry segment, John Deere purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale. The segment also provides comprehensive fleet management telematics solutions designed to improve customer productivity and efficiency through access to fleet location, utilization and maintenance information.
 
The prevailing levels of residential, commercial and public construction and the condition of the forestry products industry influence retail sales of John Deere construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment. General economic conditions, the level of interest rates, the availability of credit and certain commodity prices such as those applicable to pulp, paper and saw logs also influence sales.
 
John Deere licenses Bell Equipment Limited (Bell) to manufacture and sell certain John Deere-designed construction equipment in specified territories of Africa. Bell is also the distributor of certain John Deere-manufactured construction equipment under the Bell brand and forestry equipment under the John Deere brand in certain territories of Africa. Bell and John Deere terminated the articulated dump truck manufacturing and license agreements in 2016.
 
John Deere and Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (Hitachi) have a joint venture for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators and tracked forestry equipment and loaders in the U.S. and Canada and a joint venture for the manufacture of excavators in Brazil. John Deere distributes Hitachi brands of construction and mining equipment in North, Central and South America. John Deere also has supply agreements with Hitachi under which a range of construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment manufactured by John Deere in the U.S., Finland and New Zealand is distributed by Hitachi in certain Asian markets.
 
The segment has a number of initiatives in the rent-to-rent, or short-term rental, market for construction, earthmoving and material handling equipment. These include specially designed rental programs for John Deere dealers and expanded cooperation with major, national equipment rental companies.
 
John Deere also owns Nortrax, Inc. that in turn owns Nortrax Canada Inc. that in turn owns Nortrax Quebec Inc. (collectively called Nortrax). Nortrax is an authorized John Deere dealer for construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment in a variety of markets in the U.S. and Canada. John Deere also owns retail forestry sales operations in Australia, Brazil, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
 
Competition
 
The equipment operations sell products and services into a variety of highly competitive global and regional markets. The principal competitive factors in all markets include product performance, innovation and quality, distribution, customer service and price. In North America and many other parts of the world, John Deere’s brand recognition is a competitive factor.
 
The competitive environment for the agriculture and turf segment includes some global competitors, including AGCO Corporation, CLAAS KGaA mbH, CNH Global N.V., Kubota Tractor Corporation and The Toro Company and many regional and local competitors. These competitors have varying numbers of product lines competing with the segment’s products and each has varying degrees of regional focus. An important part of the competition within the agricultural equipment industry during the past decade has come from a variety of short-line and specialty manufacturers, as well as indigenous regional competitors, with differing manufacturing and marketing methods. Because of industry conditions, including the merger of certain large integrated competitors and the emergence and expanding global capability of many competitors, particularly in emerging and high potential markets such as Brazil, China and India where John Deere seeks to increase market share, the agricultural equipment business continues to undergo significant change and is becoming even more competitive. The segment’s turf equipment is sold primarily in the highly competitive North American and Western European markets.
 
The construction and forestry segment operates in highly competitive North American and global markets, including Brazil, China and Russia. Global competitors of the construction and forestry segment include Caterpillar Inc., Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of Volvo Group AB), CNH Global N.V., Tigercat Industries Inc. and Ponsse Plc. The segment manufactures over 90 percent of the types of construction equipment used in the U.S. and Canada, including construction, earthmoving and material handling equipment.
 
5






 
Engineering and Research
 
John Deere invests heavily in engineering and research to improve the quality and performance of its products, to develop new products and to comply with government regulations. Such expenditures were $1,389 million, or 5.9 percent of net sales, in 2016, $1,425 million, or 5.5 percent of net sales, in 2015 and $1,452 million, or 4.4 percent of net sales, in 2014.
 
Manufacturing
 
Manufacturing Plants. In the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations own and operate 21 factory locations and lease and operate another two locations, which contain approximately 28.7 million square feet of floor space. Of these 23 factories, 13 are devoted primarily to agriculture and turf equipment, four to construction and forestry equipment, one to engines, two to engine and component remanufacturing, two to hydraulic and power train components, and one to electronic components. Outside the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations own or lease and operate: agriculture and turf equipment factories in Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Mexico, the Netherlands, Russia and Spain; construction equipment factories in Brazil and China; engine, engine/power train, or electronic component factories in Argentina, China, France, India and Mexico; and forestry equipment factories in Finland and New Zealand. These factories and manufacturing operations outside the U.S. and Canada contain approximately 20 million square feet of floor space. The engine factories referred to above manufacture non-road, heavy duty diesel engines.
 
The equipment operations also have financial interests in other manufacturing organizations, which include agricultural equipment manufacturers in the U.S., Bell in South Africa, the Hitachi joint venture that builds hydraulic excavators and track log loaders in the U.S. and Canada and the Hitachi joint venture that builds hydraulic excavators in Brazil, and ventures that manufacture transaxles and transmissions used in certain agriculture and turf segment products.
 
John Deere’s facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition and suitable for their present purposes. These facilities, together with both short-term and long-term planned capital expenditures, are expected to meet John Deere’s manufacturing needs in the foreseeable future.
 
Existing capacity is sufficient to satisfy John Deere’s current expectations for retail market demand. The equipment operations’ manufacturing strategy involves the implementation of appropriate levels of technology and automation to allow manufacturing processes to remain profitable at varying production levels. Operations are also designed to be flexible enough to accommodate the product design changes required to meet market conditions and changing customer requirements. Common manufacturing facilities and techniques are employed in the production of components for agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment.
 
In order to utilize manufacturing facilities and technology more effectively, the equipment operations pursue continuous improvements in manufacturing processes. These include steps to streamline manufacturing processes and enhance responsiveness to customers. John Deere has implemented flexible assembly lines that can accommodate a wider product mix and deliver products in line with dealer and customer demand. Additionally, considerable effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reduction through process improvement and improvements in product design, advanced manufacturing technology, supply management and logistics, and environment, health, and safety management systems as well as compensation incentives related to productivity and organizational structure. In past years, John Deere has experienced volatility in the price of many raw materials. John Deere has responded to cost pressures by implementing the cost-reduction measures described above and by increasing prices. Significant cost increases, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The equipment operations also pursue external sales of selected parts and components that can be manufactured and supplied to third parties on a competitive basis, including engines, power train components and electronic components.
 
Capital Expenditures. The equipment operations’ capital expenditures totaled $665 million in 2016, compared with $649 million in 2015 and $1,001 million in 2014. Provisions for depreciation applicable to these operations’ property and equipment during these years were $695 million, $687 million and $690 million, respectively. Capital expenditures for the equipment operations in 2017 are currently estimated to be approximately $600 million. The 2017 expenditures will relate primarily to the modernization and restructuring of key manufacturing facilities, U.S. Tier 4 emission requirements and the development of new products. Future levels of capital expenditures will depend on business conditions.
 
Patents and Trademarks
 
John Deere owns a significant number of patents, trade secrets, licenses and trademarks related to John Deere products and services, and expects the number to grow as John Deere continues to pursue technological innovations. John Deere’s policy is to further its competitive position by filing patent applications in the U.S. and internationally to protect technology and improvements considered important to the business. John Deere believes that, in the aggregate, the rights under these patents and licenses are generally important to its operations and competitive position, but does not regard any of its businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. However, certain John Deere trademarks, which contribute to John Deere’s identity and the recognition of its products and services, including but not limited to the “John Deere” mark, the leaping deer logo, the “Nothing Runs Like a Deere” slogan, the prefix “JD” associated with many products and green and yellow equipment colors, are an integral part of John Deere’s
 
6






 
business, and their loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company. For additional information see Risk Factor–The potential loss of John Deere intellectual property through trade secret theft, infringement of patents, trademark counterfeiting, or other loss of rights to exclusive use of John Deere intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others.
 
Marketing
 
In the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations distribute equipment and service parts through the following facilities: two agriculture and turf equipment sales and administration offices located in Olathe, Kansas and Cary, North Carolina and one sales branch located in Grimsby, Ontario; and one construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment sales and administration office located in Moline, Illinois. In addition, the equipment operations operate a centralized parts distribution warehouse in coordination with nine regional parts depots and distribution centers in the U.S. and Canada.
 
Through these U.S. and Canadian facilities, John Deere markets products to approximately 2,365 dealer locations, most of which are independently owned and operated. Of these, approximately 1,522 sell agricultural equipment, while approximately 424 sell construction, earthmoving, material handling and/or forestry equipment. Nortrax owns some of the 424 dealer locations. Turf equipment is sold at most John Deere agricultural equipment locations, a few construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment locations and about 419 turf-only locations, many of which also sell dissimilar lines of non-John Deere products. In addition, certain lawn and garden product lines are sold through The Home Depot and Lowe’s.
 
Outside the U.S. and Canada, John Deere agriculture and turf equipment is sold to distributors and dealers for resale in over 100 countries. Sales and administrative offices are located in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Kingdom and administrative offices located in Ghana and Kenya. Associated companies doing business in China also sell agricultural equipment. Turf equipment sales outside the U.S. and Canada occur primarily in Europe and Australia. Construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment is sold to distributors and dealers primarily by sales offices located in Australia, Brazil, China, Finland, New Zealand, Miami, Russia and Singapore. Some of these dealers are independently owned while John Deere owns others. The equipment operations operate centralized parts distribution warehouses in Brazil, Germany, India and Russia in coordination with regional parts depots and distribution centers in Argentina, Australia, China, Mexico, South Africa, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
 
John Deere markets engines, power train and electronic components worldwide through select sales branches or directly to regional and global original equipment manufacturers and independently owned engine distributors.
 
Raw Materials
 
John Deere purchases raw materials and some manufactured components and replacement parts for its equipment, engines and other products from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. These materials and components include a variety of steel products, steel and iron castings, forgings, plastics, electronics and ready-to-assemble components made to certain specifications. John Deere also purchases various goods and services used in production, logistics, offices and research and development processes. John Deere maintains strategic sourcing models to meet its production needs and build upon long-term supplier relationships. John Deere uses a variety of agreements with suppliers intended to drive innovation, ensure availability and delivery of industry-leading quality raw materials and components, manage costs on a globally competitive basis, protect John Deere’s intellectual property and minimize other supply-related risks. Supply chain risks monitored by John Deere to minimize the likelihood of the supply base causing business disruption include supplier financial viability, capacity, business continuity, quality, delivery and weather-related events including natural disasters. In fiscal year 2016, John Deere experienced no significant work stoppages as a result of shortages of raw materials or other commodities.
 
Backlog Orders
 
The dollar amount of backlog orders for the agriculture and turf segment believed to be firm was approximately $4.2 billion at October 31, 2016, compared with $4.2 billion at October 31, 2015. The agriculture and turf backlog is generally highest in the second and third quarters due to seasonal buying trends in these industries. John Deere generally produces and ships its construction and forestry equipment on average within approximately 60 days after an order is deemed to become firm. Therefore, no significant amount of construction and forestry backlog orders accumulates during any period.
 
7






 
Trade Accounts and Notes Receivable
 
Trade accounts and notes receivable arise primarily from sales of goods to independent dealers. Most trade receivables originated by the equipment operations are purchased by the financial services operations. The equipment operations compensate the financial services operations at approximate market rates of interest for these receivables. Additional information appears in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES
 
U.S. and Canada. The financial services segment primarily provides and administers financing for retail purchases from John Deere dealers of new equipment manufactured by John Deere’s agriculture and turf and construction and forestry segments and used equipment taken in trade for this equipment.
 
The Company and John Deere Construction & Forestry Company (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) are referred to as the “sales companies.” John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation), a U.S. financial services subsidiary, generally purchases retail installment sales and loan contracts (retail notes) from the sales companies. These retail notes are acquired by the sales companies through John Deere retail dealers in the U.S. John Deere Financial Inc., a Canadian financial services subsidiary, purchases and finances retail notes acquired by John Deere Canada ULC, the Company’s Canadian sales branch. The terms of retail notes and the basis on which the financial services operations acquire retail notes from the sales companies are governed by agreements with the sales companies. The financial services segment also finances and services revolving charge accounts, in most cases acquired from and offered through merchants in the agriculture and turf and construction and forestry markets (revolving charge accounts). Additionally, the financial services operations provide wholesale financing for inventories of John Deere agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment owned by dealers of those products (wholesale notes). The various financing options offered by the financial services operations are designed to enhance sales of John Deere products and generate financing income for the financial services operations. In the U.S., certain subsidiaries included in the financial services segment offer extended equipment warranties.
 
Retail notes acquired by the sales companies are immediately sold to the financial services operations. The equipment operations are the financial services operations’ major source of business, but many retail purchasers of John Deere products finance their purchases outside the John Deere organization through a variety of sources, including commercial banks and finance and leasing companies.
 
The financial services operations offer retail leases to equipment users in the U.S. A small number of leases are executed with units of local government. Leases are usually written for periods of four months to sixty months, and typically contain an option permitting the customer to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term. Retail leases are also offered in a generally similar manner to customers in Canada through John Deere Financial Inc. and John Deere Canada ULC.
 
The financial services operations’ terms for financing equipment retail sales (other than smaller items financed with unsecured revolving charge accounts) generally provide for retention of a security interest in the equipment financed. The financial services operations’ guidelines for minimum down payments, which vary with the types of equipment and repayment provisions, are generally 10 percent to 30 percent of the purchase price. Finance charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or reduced on certain John Deere products sold or leased in advance of the season of use or in other sales promotions. The financial services operations generally receive compensation from the sales companies at approximate market interest rates for periods during which finance charges are waived or reduced on the retail notes or leases. The cost is accounted for as a deduction in arriving at net sales by the equipment operations.
 
The Company has an agreement with Capital Corporation to make payments to Capital Corporation such that its ratio of earnings to fixed charges is not less than 1.05 to 1 for any fiscal quarter. For 2016 and 2015, Capital Corporation’s ratios were 2.22 to 1 and 3.42 to 1, respectively, and never less than 2.01 to 1 and 3.26 to 1 for any fiscal quarter of 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company has also committed to continue to own, directly or through one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries, at least 51 percent of the voting shares of capital stock of Capital Corporation and to maintain Capital Corporation’s consolidated tangible net worth at not less than $50 million. The Company’s obligations to make payments to Capital Corporation under the agreement are independent of whether Capital Corporation is in default on its indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. Further, the Company’s obligations under the agreement are not measured by the amount of Capital Corporation’s indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. The Company’s obligations to make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to be a guaranty of any specific indebtedness, obligation or liability of Capital Corporation and are enforceable only by or in the name of Capital Corporation. No payments were required under this agreement in 2016 or 2015.
 
Outside the U.S. and Canada. The financial services operations also offer financing, primarily for John Deere products, in Australia, Brazil, China, India, New Zealand, Russia, Thailand and in several other countries in Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America. In certain areas, financing is offered through cooperation agreements or joint ventures. The manner in which the financial services operations offer financing in these countries is affected by a variety of country-specific laws, regulations and customs, including those governing property rights and debtor obligations, that are subject to change and that may introduce greater risk to the financial services operations.
 
8






 
The financial services operations also offer to select customers and dealers credit enhanced international export financing for the purchase of John Deere products.
 
Additional information on the financial services operations appears on pages 23-24, 26 and 28.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
John Deere is subject to a wide variety of local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations in the U.S., as well as the environmental laws and regulations of other countries in which John Deere conducts business. John Deere strives to comply and believes it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations. However, failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. John Deere is involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of sites but does not expect that these matters or other expenses or liabilities John Deere may incur in connection with any noncompliance with environmental laws or regulations or the cleanup of any additional properties, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position of John Deere. With respect to acquired properties and businesses or properties and businesses acquired in the future, John Deere conducts due diligence into potential exposure to environmental liabilities, but cannot be certain that it has identified or will identify all adverse environmental conditions. Compliance with these laws and regulations has added, and will continue to add, to the cost of John Deere’s products.
 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has issued stringent emissions regulations for off-road engines, and governmental agencies throughout the world are similarly enacting more stringent laws to reduce off-road engine emissions. John Deere has achieved and plans to continue to achieve compliance with these regulations through significant investments in the development of new engine technologies and after-treatment systems. Compliance with emissions regulations has added and will continue to add to the cost of John Deere’s products.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
At October 31, 2016, John Deere had approximately 56,800 employees, including approximately 27,900 employees in the U.S. and Canada. John Deere also retains consultants, independent contractors, and temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 84 percent of John Deere’s U.S. production and maintenance employees. Approximately 7,600 of John Deere’s active U.S. production and maintenance workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of October 1, 2021.
 
Unions also represent the majority of employees at John Deere manufacturing facilities outside the U.S.
 
9





 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of the Company, their positions with the Company and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience. All executive officers are elected or appointed by the Board of Directors and hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in each year.
 



Name, age and office (at December 1, 2016), and year elected to   office    

     

Principal occupation during last   five years other than office   of the Company currently held       


Samuel   R. Allen    

63    

Chairman   and Chief Executive Officer    

2010    

     

Has held this position   for the last five years       


     

     

     

     

     

        


James   M. Field    

53    

President,   Agriculture & Turf Division-Global Harvesting & Turf   Platforms, Americas and Australia    

2012    

     

2009 –2012 Senior Vice   President and Chief Financial Officer       


     

     

     

     

     

        


Jean   H. Gilles    

59    

Senior   Vice President, John Deere Power Systems, Worldwide Parts Services, Advanced   Technology & Engineering and Global Supply Management and Logistics    

2010    

     

Has held this position   for the last five years       


     

     

     

     

     

        


Max   A. Guinn    

58    

President,   Worldwide Construction & Forestry    

2014    

     

2012 – 2014 Senior Vice   President, Human Resources, Communications, Public Affairs and Labor   Relations; 2009 – 2012 Senior Vice President Agriculture & Turf   Division, Global Platform, Crop Harvesting       


     

     

     

     

     

        


Marc   A. Howze    

53    

Senior   Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer    

2016    

     

2012 – 2016 Vice   President, Global Human Resources & Employee Communications; 2012   Global Director, Cotton Harvesting Product Line; 2009 – 2012 Factory Manager,   John Deere Turf Care       


     

     

     

     

     

        


Mary   K.W. Jones    

48    

Senior   Vice President and General Counsel    

2013    

     

2010 – 2013 Vice   President Global Human Resources       


     

     

     

     

     

        


Rajesh   Kalathur    

48    

Senior   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

2012    

     

2012 Deputy Financial   Officer; 2009 – 2012 Vice President, Sales & Marketing,   China/India/South and East Asia/Sub-Saharan and South Africa,   Agriculture & Turf Division       


     

     

     

     

     

        


John   C. May    

47    

President,   Agricultural Solutions & Chief Information Officer    

2012    

     

2009 – 2012 Vice   President, Agriculture & Turf Global Platform, Turf &   Utility       


     

     

     

     

     

        


Cory   J. Reed    

46    

President,   John Deere Financial    

2016    

     

2013 – 2016 Senior Vice   President, Intelligent Solutions Group; 2012 – 2013 Senior Vice   President, Global Marketing Services; 2011 – 2012 Vice President, Global   Marketing Services Agricultural and Turf Division       


     

     

     

     

     

        


Markwart   von Pentz    

53    

President,   Agriculture & Turf Division-Europe, Asia, Africa, and Global Tractor   Platform    

2012    

     

2009 – 2012 President,   Agriculture & Turf Division-Europe, CIS, Northern Africa, Middle   East, Latin America, and Global Harvesting, Crop Care, Hay & Forage   Products         
 
 
ITEM 1A.                  RISK FACTORS.
 
The following risks are considered the most significant to John Deere’s business based upon current knowledge, information and assumptions. This discussion of risk factors should be considered closely in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis  beginning on page 22, including the risks and uncertainties described in the Safe Harbor Statement on pages 24 and 25, and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 37. These risk factors and other forward-looking statements that relate to future events, expectations, trends and operating periods involve certain factors that are subject to change, and important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the Company’s businesses. Although each risk is discussed 
 
10






 
separately, many are interrelated. The Company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise this risk factors discussion, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the “Safe Harbor Statement” in this report are not the only risks faced by the Company.
 
International, national and regional trade laws, regulations and policies (particularly those related to or restricting global trade) and government farm programs and policies could significantly impair John Deere’s profitability and growth prospects.
 
International, national and regional laws, regulations and policies directly or indirectly related to or restricting the import and export of John Deere’s products, services and technology, including protectionist policies in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of favored industries or sectors, could harm John Deere’s multinational business and subject John Deere to civil and criminal sanctions. John Deere’s profitability and growth prospects are tied directly to the global marketplace. Restricted access to global markets impairs John Deere’s ability to export goods and services from its various manufacturing locations around the world, and limits the ability to access raw materials and high quality parts and components at competitive prices on a timely basis. Trade restrictions could limit John Deere’s ability to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities in international markets and impair John Deere’s ability to expand the business by offering new technologies, products and services. These restrictions may affect John Deere’s competitive position. Additionally, John Deere’s competitive position and results could be adversely affected by changes in—or uncertainty surrounding—U.S. trade policy. Furthermore, the ability to export agricultural and forestry commodities is critical to John Deere’s agricultural and forestry customers. Policies impacting exchange rates and commodity prices or those limiting the export or import of commodities could have a material adverse effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities that may result in a corresponding negative effect on the demand for agricultural and forestry equipment in many areas of the world. John Deere’s agricultural equipment sales could be especially harmed because farm income strongly influences sales of agricultural equipment around the world. Furthermore, trade restrictions could impede those in developing countries from achieving a higher standard of living, which could negatively impact John Deere’s future growth opportunities arising from increasing global demand for food, fuel and infrastructure. Additionally, changes in government farm programs and policies, including direct payment and other subsidies, can significantly influence demand for agricultural equipment. Furthermore, embargoes and sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other governments restricting or prohibiting sales or transactions to specific persons, including financial institutions, or countries or based on product classification expose John Deere to potential criminal and civil sanctions. Although John Deere has a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of import and export laws and sanctions, these laws and sanctions, particularly with respect to eastern Europe, Cuba, and Iran, are changing rapidly. Violations of these laws could have an adverse effect on John Deere’s reputation, business and results of operations and financial condition.
 
Changes in government banking, monetary and fiscal policies could have a negative effect on John Deere.
 
Policies of the U.S. and other governments regarding banking, monetary and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity, stabilize financial markets and/or address local deficit or structural economic issues may not be effective and could have a material impact on John Deere’s customers and markets. John Deere’s operations and results could also be impacted by financial regulatory reform that could have an adverse effect on the financial services segment and on John Deere’s customers by limiting their ability to enter into hedging transactions or to finance purchases of John Deere products. Government policies on taxes and spending can also affect John Deere, especially the construction and forestry segment due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure development.
 
Changing worldwide demand for food and different forms of bio-energy could have an effect on the price of farm commodities and consequently the demand for certain John Deere equipment and could also result in higher research and development costs related to changing machine fuel requirements.
 
Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world’s growing food and bio-energy demands, driven in part by government policies and a growing world population, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which directly affect sales of agricultural equipment. Lower farm commodity prices directly affect farm incomes, which could negatively affect sales of agricultural equipment. While higher commodity prices benefit John Deere’s crop-producing agricultural equipment customers, higher commodity prices also could result in greater feed costs for livestock and poultry producers which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by these customers. Furthermore, changing bio-fuel demands may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they raise, with corresponding changes in equipment demands. Finally, changes in governmental policies regulating bio-fuel utilization could affect demand for John Deere’s diesel-fueled equipment and result in higher research and development costs related to equipment fuel standards.
 
11






 
As John Deere seeks to expand its business globally, growth opportunities may be impacted by greater political, economic and social uncertainty and the continuing and accelerating globalization of businesses could significantly change the dynamics of John Deere’s competition, customer base and product offerings.
 
John Deere’s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent upon access to additional geographic markets including, but not limited to, Brazil, China, India and Russia, and its success in developing market share and operating profitably in such markets. In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions and differing local customer product preferences and requirements than John Deere’s other markets. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes John Deere to multiple and potentially conflicting cultural practices, business practices and legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, property ownership rights, taxation, sanctions requirements, repatriation of earnings and advanced technologies. Expanding business operations globally also increases exposure to currency fluctuations which can materially affect the Company’s financial results. As these emerging geographic markets become more important to John Deere, its competitors are also seeking to expand their production capacities and sales in these same markets. While John Deere maintains a positive corporate image and the John Deere brand is widely recognized and valued in its traditional markets, the brand is less well known in some emerging markets which could impede John Deere’s efforts to successfully compete in these markets. Although John Deere is taking measures to adapt to these changing circumstances, John Deere’s reputation and/or business results could be negatively affected should these efforts prove unsuccessful.
 
John Deere operates in highly competitive markets.
 
John Deere operates in a variety of highly competitive global and regional markets. John Deere competes worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. John Deere competes on the basis of product performance, innovation and quality, distribution, customer service and price. Aggressive pricing or other strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing delays or John Deere’s failure to price its products competitively could adversely affect John Deere’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
John Deere’s business results depend largely on its ability to understand its customers’ specific preferences and requirements, and to develop, manufacture and market products that meet customer demand.
 
John Deere’s ability to match new product offerings to diverse global customers’ anticipated preferences for different types and sizes of equipment and various equipment features and functionality, at affordable prices, is critical to its success. This requires a thorough understanding of John Deere’s existing and potential customers on a global basis, particularly in potentially high-growth and emerging markets, including Brazil, China, India and Russia. Failure to deliver quality products that meet customer needs at competitive prices ahead of competitors could have a significant adverse effect on John Deere’s business.
 
Negative economic conditions and outlook can materially weaken demand for John Deere’s equipment and services, limit access to funding and result in higher funding costs.
 
The demand for John Deere’s products and services can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by high unemployment, cautious consumer spending, lower corporate earnings, U.S. budget issues and lower business investment. Negative or uncertain economic conditions causing John Deere’s customers to lack confidence in the general economic outlook can significantly reduce their likelihood of purchasing John Deere’s equipment. Sustained negative economic conditions and outlook affect housing starts and other construction which dampens demand for certain construction equipment. John Deere’s turf operations and its construction and forestry business are dependent on construction activity and general economic conditions. Decreases in construction activity and housing starts could have a material adverse effect on John Deere’s results of operations. If negative economic conditions affect the overall farm economy, there could be a similar effect on John Deere’s agricultural equipment sales. In addition, uncertain or negative outlook with respect to ongoing U.S. budget issues as well as general economic conditions and outlook can cause significant changes in market liquidity conditions. Such changes could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce the Company’s earnings and cash flows. Additionally, the Company’s investment management activities could be adversely affected by changes in the equity and bond markets, which would negatively affect earnings.
 
In addition, demand for John Deere’s products and services can be significantly reduced by concerns regarding the diverse economic and political circumstances of the individual countries in the eurozone, the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, uncertainty related to the potential withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, and the long term stability of the euro as a single common currency. Persistent disparity with respect to the widely varying economic conditions within the individual countries in the eurozone, and its implications for the euro as well as market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of the Company’s euro-denominated assets and obligations, have an adverse effect on demand for John Deere’s products and services in the eurozone and have an adverse effect on financial markets in Europe and globally. More specifically, it could affect the ability of John Deere’s customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, and the availability of supplies and materials and on the demand for John Deere’s products.
 
12






 
The Company’s consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars while certain assets and other reported items are denominated in the currencies of other countries, creating currency exchange and translation risk.
 
John Deere operates in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. John Deere is subject to currency exchange risk to the extent that its costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which John Deere earns revenues.
 
Additionally, the reporting currency for the Company’s consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of John Deere’s assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in other countries’ currencies. Those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates to prepare the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, increases or decreases in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies affect the value of those items as reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, even if their value remains unchanged in their original currency. Substantial fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar could have a significant impact on John Deere’s results.
 
Because the financial services segment provides financing for a significant portion of John Deere’s sales worldwide, John Deere’s operations and financial results could be impacted materially should negative economic conditions affect the financial industry.
 
In recent years, negative economic conditions have frequently had an adverse effect on the financial industry in which the financial services segment operates. The financial services segment provides financing for a significant portion of John Deere’s sales worldwide. The financial services segment is exposed to the risk that customers and others will default on contractual obligations. The financial services segment may experience credit losses that exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The financial services segment’s inability to access funds at cost-effective rates to support its financing activities could have a material adverse effect on John Deere’s business. The financial services segment’s liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital in order to meet future cash flow requirements and to fund operations and costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. Additionally, negative market conditions could reduce customer confidence levels, resulting in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact the financial services segment’s write-offs and provision for credit losses. The financial services segment may also experience residual value losses that exceed its expectations caused by lower pricing for used equipment and higher than expected equipment returns at lease maturity.
 
John Deere’s equipment operations and financial services segments are subject to interest rate risks. Changes in interest rates can reduce demand for equipment, adversely affect interest margins and limit the ability to access capital markets while increasing borrowing costs.
 
Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of John Deere’s customers, either or both of which could negatively affect customer demand for John Deere equipment and customers’ ability to repay obligations to John Deere. In addition, credit market dislocations could have an impact on funding costs which are very important to John Deere’s financial services segment because such costs affect the segment’s ability to offer customers competitive financing rates. While the Company strives to match the interest rate characteristics of our financial assets and liabilities, changing interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company’s net interest rate margin—the difference between the yield the Company earns on its assets and the interest rates the Company pays for funding, which could in turn affect the Company’s net interest income and earnings. Actions by credit rating agencies, such as downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks, can affect the availability and cost of funding for the Company and can increase the Company’s cost of capital and hurt its competitive position.
 
The potential loss of John Deere intellectual property through trade secret theft, infringement of patents, trademark counterfeiting, or other loss of rights to exclusive use of John Deere intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others.
 
John Deere relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, we heavily rely on certain John Deere trademarks, which contribute to John Deere’s identity and the recognition of its products and services, including but not limited to the “John Deere” mark, the leaping deer logo, the “Nothing Runs Like a Deere” slogan and the prefix “JD” associated with many products and the green and yellow equipment colors. These trademarks, as well as the many patents used in our products, are integral to the John Deere business, and their loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
Additionally, third parties may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents or allege that we infringe their patents. We may incur substantial costs if our competitors or other third parties initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents or allege that we infringe their patents, or if we initiate any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business could be adversely affected. We also cannot be certain that our products or technologies have not infringed or will not infringe the proprietary rights of others. Any such infringement could cause third parties, including our competitors, to bring claims against us, resulting in significant costs, possible damages and substantial uncertainty.
 
13






 
John Deere is subject to extensive anti-corruption laws and regulations.
 
John Deere’s global operations must comply with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. These anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence government officials or private individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a business advantage regardless of whether those practices are legal or culturally expected in a particular jurisdiction. Recently, there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Although John Deere has a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of such laws, violations of these laws could result in criminal or civil sanctions and have an adverse effect on John Deere’s reputation, business and results of operations and financial condition.
 
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Act) and the regulations implementing the Act impose additional supervisory, financial and reporting requirements and compliance costs on John Deere and John Deere’s financial services operations and could therefore adversely affect John Deere and its financial services segment.
 
The Act was enacted on July 21, 2010 to broadly reform practices in the financial services industry, including equipment financing and securitizations. The Act directs federal agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and others, to adopt rules to regulate depository institutions, systemically important financial institutions, holding companies, the consumer finance industry and the capital markets, including certain commercial transactions such as derivatives contracts. Although the effects of the Act on the capital markets and the financial industry will not be fully known until all the regulations have been finalized and implemented, the Act and its regulations impose, or may impose, additional reporting, stress testing, leverage, liquidity, and capital requirements; and other supervisory and financial standards and restrictions that increase regulatory compliance costs for John Deere and John Deere’s financial services operations and could adversely affect John Deere and its financial services segment’s funding activities, liquidity, structure (including relationships with affiliates), operations and performance. Moreover, John Deere’s operations, including those outside of the United States, will also be impacted by non-U.S. regulatory reforms, including Basel III, being implemented to further regulate non-U.S. financial institutions and markets.
 
John Deere’s business may be directly and indirectly affected by unfavorable weather conditions or natural disasters that reduce agricultural production and demand for agriculture and turf equipment.
 
Poor or unusual weather conditions, particularly during the planting and early growing season, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of John Deere’s customers, particularly the purchasers of agriculture and turf equipment. The timing and quantity of rainfall are two of the most important factors in agricultural production. Insufficient levels of rain prevent farmers from planting new crops and may cause growing crops to die or result in lower yields. Excessive rain or flooding can prevent planting from occurring at optimal times, and may cause crop loss through increased disease or mold growth. Temperatures outside normal ranges can also cause crop failure or decreased yields, and may also affect disease incidence. Temperature affects the rate of growth, crop maturity and crop quality. Natural calamities such as regional floods, hurricanes or other storms, and droughts can have significant negative effects on agricultural and livestock production. The resulting negative impact on farm income can strongly affect demand for agricultural equipment. Sales of turf equipment, particularly during the important spring selling season, can be dramatically impacted by weather. Adverse weather conditions in a particular geographic region may adversely affect sales of some turf equipment. Drought conditions can adversely affect sales of certain mowing equipment and unusually rainy weather can similarly cause lower sales volumes.
 
Changes in the availability and price of certain raw materials, components and whole goods could result in production disruptions or increased costs and lower profits on sales of John Deere products.
 
John Deere requires access to various raw materials, components and whole goods at competitive prices to manufacture and distribute its products. Changes in the availability and price of these raw materials, components and whole goods, which have fluctuated significantly in the past and are more likely to fluctuate during times of economic volatility, can significantly increase the costs of production which could have a material negative effect on the profitability of the business, particularly if John Deere, due to pricing considerations or other factors, is unable to recover the increased costs from its customers. John Deere relies on suppliers to acquire raw materials, components and whole goods required to manufacture its products. Certain components and parts used in John Deere’s products are available from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly. Supply chain disruptions due to  supplier financial distress, capacity constraints, business continuity, quality, delivery or disruptions due to weather-related or natural disaster events could affect John Deere’s operations and profitability.
 
14






 
John Deere’s operations, suppliers and customers are subject to and affected by increasingly rigorous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over John Deere’s international operations. In addition, private civil litigation on these subjects has increased, primarily in the U.S.
 
Enforcement actions arising from violations of environmental, health and safety laws or regulations can lead to investigation and defense costs, and result in significant fines or penalties. In addition, new or more stringent requirements of governmental authorities could prevent or restrict John Deere’s operations, or those of our suppliers and customers, require significant expenditures to achieve compliance and/or give rise to civil or criminal liability. There can be no assurance that violations of such legislation and/or regulations, or private civil claims for damages to property or personal injury arising from the environmental, health or safety impacts of John Deere’s operations, or those of our suppliers and customers, would not have consequences that result in a material adverse effect on John Deere’s business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
Increasingly stringent engine emission standards could impact John Deere’s ability to manufacture and distribute certain engines or equipment, which could negatively affect business results.
 
John Deere’s equipment operations must meet increasingly stringent engine emission reduction standards, including Final Tier 4 non-road diesel emission requirements in the U.S. and the European Union’s Stage IV standard and recently enacted Stage V standard. In addition, governmental agencies throughout the world are enacting more stringent laws and regulations to reduce off-road engine emissions. These standards are applicable to many engines manufactured by John Deere and used in many models of John Deere agriculture and construction and forestry equipment. John Deere has incurred and continues to incur substantial research and development costs and is introducing many new equipment models, largely due to the implementation of these more rigorous standards. While John Deere has developed and is executing comprehensive plans to meet these requirements and does not currently foresee significant obstacles that would prevent timely compliance, these plans are subject to many variables that could delay or otherwise affect John Deere’s ability to manufacture and distribute certain equipment or engines, which could negatively impact business results.
 
John Deere may incur increased costs due to new or more stringent greenhouse gas emission standards designed to address climate change and could be further impacted by physical effects attributed to climate change on its facilities, suppliers and customers.
 
There is a political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) continue to alter the composition of Earth’s atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue to affect the global climate. These considerations may lead to international, national, regional or local legislative or regulatory responses in the future. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, including John Deere, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. The regulation of GHG emissions from certain stationary or mobile sources could result in additional costs to John Deere in the form of taxes or emission allowances, facilities improvements and energy costs, which would increase John Deere’s operating costs through higher utility, transportation and materials costs. Increased input costs, such as fuel and fertilizer, and compliance-related costs could also impact customer operations and demand for John Deere equipment. Because the impact of any future GHG legislative, regulatory or product standard requirements on John Deere’s global businesses and products is dependent on the timing and design of mandates or standards, John Deere is unable to predict its potential impact at this time.
 
Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of climate change on John Deere’s facilities, suppliers and customers and therefore on John Deere’s operations are highly uncertain and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions. These may include long-term changes in temperature levels and water availability. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the demand for John Deere’s products and the cost, production, sales and financial performance of John Deere’s operations.
 
Security breaches and other disruptions to John Deere’s information technology infrastructure could interfere with John Deere’s operations and could compromise John Deere’s and its customers’ and suppliers’ information, exposing John Deere to liability that would cause John Deere’s business and reputation to suffer.
 
In the ordinary course of business, John Deere relies upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments from dealers or other purchasers of John Deere equipment and from customers of John Deere’s financial services operations. John Deere uses information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Additionally, John Deere collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and the proprietary business information of John Deere’s customers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of John Deere’s customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this 
 
15






 
information is critical to John Deere’s business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, John Deere’s information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise John Deere’s networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations, and damage John Deere’s reputation, which could adversely affect John Deere’s business. In addition, as security threats continue to evolve we may need to invest additional resources to protect the security of our systems.
 
John Deere is subject to governmental laws, regulations and other legal obligations related to privacy and data protection.
 
The legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. John Deere collects personally identifiable information (PII) and other data as an integral part of its business processes and activities. This data is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory or other governmental bodies. Many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union, Canada, and other relevant jurisdictions where we conduct business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of PII and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdiction that are more restrictive than those in the U.S. Additionally, in May 2016, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation that will impose more stringent data protection requirements and will provide for greater penalties for noncompliance beginning in May 2018. Any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations, or other legal obligations could result in additional cost and liability to us or company officials, damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and otherwise adversely affect our business.
 
John Deere’s ability to execute its strategy is dependent upon the ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel.
 
John Deere’s continued success depends, in part, on its ability to identify, attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel in key functions. In particular, John Deere is dependent on its ability to identify, attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel with the requisite education, background and industry experience. Failure to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, whether as a result of an insufficient number of qualified applicants, difficulty in recruiting new personnel, or the allocation of inadequate resources to training, integration and retention of qualified personnel, could impair John Deere’s ability to execute its business strategy and could adversely affect John Deere’s business. In addition, while John Deere strives to reduce the impact of the departure of its employees, John Deere’s operations or ability to execute its business strategy may be impacted by the loss of personnel.
 
Sustained increases in funding obligations under the Company’s pension plans may impair the Company’s liquidity or financial condition.
 
The Company maintains certain defined benefit pension plans for certain employees, which impose funding obligations. The Company uses many assumptions in calculating its future payment obligations under the plans. Significant adverse changes in credit or market conditions could result in actual rates of returns on pension investments being lower than expected. The Company may be required to make significant contributions to its pension plans in the future. These factors could significantly increase the Company’s payment obligations under the plans and adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
The reallocation of radio frequency (RF) spectrums could disrupt or degrade the reliability of John Deere’s high precision augmented Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, which could impair John Deere’s ability to develop and market GPS-based technology solutions as well as significantly reduce agricultural and construction customers’ profitability.
 
John Deere’s current and planned integrated agricultural business and equipment management systems, as well as its fleet management telematics solutions for construction equipment, depend upon the use of RF signals. These signals include, but are not limited to, GPS signals, other GPS-like satellite signals, augmented GPS services and other RF equipment which link equipment, operations, owners, dealers and technicians. These radio services depend on frequency allocations governed by international and national agencies. Any international or national reallocation of frequency bands, including frequency bands segmentation and band spectrum sharing, or other modifications concerning the regulation of frequency bands, could significantly disrupt or degrade the utility and reliability of John Deere’s GPS-based products, which could negatively affect John Deere’s ability to develop and market GPS-based technology solutions. For John Deere’s agricultural customers, the inability to use high-precision augmented GPS signals or other RF signals could result in lower crop yields and higher equipment maintenance, seed, fertilizer, fuel and wage costs. For construction customers, disrupting GPS or RF applications could result in higher fuel and equipment maintenance costs, as well as lower construction design and project management efficiencies. These cost increases could significantly reduce customers’ profitability and demand for John Deere products.
 
16






 
ITEM 1B