Item 1A.Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider each of the following risks described below and all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K in evaluating us. Our business, financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. This annual report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” which immediately follows the risks below. Current Economic and Regulatory EnvironmentEconomic conditions have had and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While certain economic conditions in the United States have shown signs of improvement, economic growth has been slow and uneven as consumers continue to be affected by high unemployment rates and depressed housing values. In addition, the economic and financial challenges in Europe and globally may continue to impact economic recovery generally and the financial services industry. A prolonged period of slow economic growth or a significant deterioration in economic conditions would likely affect the ability and willingness of customers to pay amounts owed to us. A customer's ability to repay us also can be negatively impacted by increases in their payment obligations to other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer loans. We believe that we are experiencing generally historical lows in our delinquency and charge-off rates and that these rates will be increasing over time. In addition, if economic conditions worsen, these rates may increase more than expected. The over 30 days delinquent rate was 1.64% at December 31, 2013, down from 1.69% and 2.29% at December 31, 2012 and November 30, 2011, respectively. The full-year net charge-off rate was 1.98% for the 2013 calendar year, down from 2.29% and 3.97% for the 2012 and 2011 fiscal years, respectively. Growth in our loan portfolio led us to increase our allowance for loan losses in the second half of 2013. We expect further increases in our allowance for loan losses in 2014, which will negatively impact our net income compared to 2011 through 2013, when reserve releases significantly contributed to our net income. Poor economic conditions not only affect the ability and willingness of customers to pay amounts owed to us, increasing delinquencies, charge-offs and allowance for loan losses as described above, but also can reduce the usage of credit cards in general and the average purchase amount of transactions industry-wide, including our cards, which reduces interest income and transaction fees. We rely heavily on interest income from our credit card business to generate earnings. Our net interest income from credit card loans was $6.0 billion for the 2013 calendar year, which was 73% of revenues (defined as net interest income plus other income), compared to $5.8 billion for the 2012 fiscal year, which was 75% of revenues, and $5.7 billion for the 2011 fiscal year, which was 80% of revenues. In the event of another economic downturn, we may have to consider expense-reduction initiatives in order to offset our inability to generate increased interest and fee income due to existing legal and regulatory limitations on increasing interest and fees. Slow economic recovery combined with a competitive marketplace could result in Discover being unable to grow loans, resulting in reduced revenue from its core direct banking business. The regulatory environment for the financial services industry is being significantly impacted by financial regulatory reform initiatives, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Reform Act") contains comprehensive provisions governing the practices and oversight of financial institutions and other participants in the financial markets. The Reform Act regulates large systemically significant financial firms, including us, through a variety of measures, including increased capital and liquidity requirements, limits on leverage, and enhanced supervisory authority. The Reform Act also established a new financial industry regulator, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"), and new requirements for debit card transactions, which impact our core businesses and are described in other risk factors below related to consumer financial services, payment services, risk management practices, and capital and liquidity. Additional legislative or regulatory action that may impact our business may result from the multiple studies mandated under the Reform Act.The evolving regulatory environment causes uncertainty with respect to the manner in which we conduct our businesses and requirements that may be imposed by our regulators. Regulators have implemented and continue to propose new regulations and issue supervisory guidance and have been increasing their examination and enforcement -26-Table of Contentsaction activities. The FDIC is completing its annual anti-money laundering/Bank Secrecy Act examination of Discover Bank and has notified the company of certain potential program deficiencies, and the CFPB is investigating certain student loan servicing practices of Discover Bank. See Note 20: Litigation and Regulatory Matters to our consolidated financial statements for more information. We expect that regulators will continue taking formal enforcement actions against financial institutions in addition to addressing supervisory concerns through non-public supervisory actions or findings. We are unable to predict the nature, extent or impact of any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation, implementation or enforcement thereof, which may occur in the future.The impact of the evolving regulatory environment on our business and operations depends upon a number of factors including final implementing regulations, guidance and interpretations of the regulatory agencies, supervisory priorities and actions, the actions of our competitors and other marketplace participants, and the behavior of consumers. The evolving regulatory environment could require us to limit or change our business practices, limit our product offerings, require continued investment of management time and resources in compliance efforts, limit fees we can charge for services, require us to meet more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, increase costs, restrict our ability to access the securitization markets for our funding, impact the value of our assets, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. The regulatory environment and enhanced examination and supervisory expectations and scrutiny can also potentially impact our ability to pursue business opportunities and obtain required regulatory approvals for potential investments and acquisitions. For additional information see "Business — Supervision and Regulation — Acquisitions and Investments."Compliance and other regulatory requirements and expenditures have increased significantly for Discover and other financial services firms, and we expect them to continue to increase as regulators adopt new rules, interpret existing rules and increase their scrutiny of financial institutions, including controls and operational processes. We may face additional compliance and regulatory risk to the extent that we enter into new lines of business or new business arrangements with third-party service providers, alternative payment providers or other industry participants, including providers or participants that may not be regulated financial institutions. The additional expense, time and resources needed to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, regulatory findings and ratings could negatively impact our business strategies. There continues to be uncertainty as to how the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's priorities and actions will continue to impact our business. The CFPB, which commenced operations in July 2011, has a large budget and staff, and broad authority with respect to the products that we offer, as further described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Regulatory Environment and Developments." There continues to be significant uncertainty as to how the agency's regulatory, supervisory, examination and enforcement strategies and priorities will impact our business and our results of operations going forward. In September 2012, Discover Bank entered into a consent order with the FDIC and CFPB with respect to the marketing of our protection products, which required us to provide refunds of approximately $200 million to eligible customers, pay a $14 million civil monetary penalty and enhance our business processes. Several of our other products, including credit cards, student loans and home loans, are areas of focus by the CFPB. The CFPB is currently investigating certain student loan servicing practices of Discover Bank. See Note 20: Litigation and Regulatory Matters to our consolidated financial statements for more information.  Although we have committed significant resources to enhancing our compliance programs, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of enforcement actions, fines, penalties and customer restitution. Actions by the CFPB could result in requirements to alter our products and services that would make our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably. Future actions by the CFPB or other regulators that discourage the use of products we offer or steer consumers to other products or services could result in reputational harm and a loss of customers. Should the CFPB change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or modify past regulatory guidance, our compliance costs and litigation exposure could increase. Our consumer class action litigation exposure could increase if the CFPB exercises its authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. A preliminary report on arbitration agreements issued by the CFPB expressed concerns about these agreements that may signal the agency is contemplating taking such steps. Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to the student loan market may have a significant impact on our ability to profitably grow our student loan portfolio.We have invested in the growth of our private student loan portfolio, including through the acquisition of The Student Loan Corporation in December 2010 and the acquisition of additional private student loans from Citi in -27-Table of ContentsSeptember 2011. Our total student loans have grown from $1.0 billion at November 30, 2010 to $8.1 billion at December 31, 2013. There is significant legislative and regulatory focus on the student loan market, including by the CFPB, as described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Regulatory Environment and Developments." This regulatory focus has resulted in an increase in supervisory examinations of the company related to student loans. The CFPB is currently investigating certain student loan servicing practices of Discover Bank. See Note 20: Litigation and Regulatory Matters to our consolidated financial statements for more information. Regulators, Congress or the Administration may take actions that impact the student loan market in the future. Any such actions could cause us to restructure our private student loan business in ways that we may not currently anticipate. The possible impact of heightened scrutiny of the student loan market and its participants, including any resulting legislative and regulatory initiatives, is uncertain and may adversely impact the profitability and growth of our private student loan portfolio.Legislative and regulatory reforms related to the debit card market, as well as competitors' responses to these reforms, have had a significant impact on our PULSE network business. The changing debit card environment has adversely impacted and we expect that it may continue to adversely impact PULSE's ability to compete for transaction volume.The Reform Act contains several provisions impacting the debit card market as further described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Regulatory Environment and Developments." The changing debit card environment, including competitor actions related to merchant and acquirer transaction routing strategies, has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our PULSE network's business practices, network transaction volume, revenue, and prospects for future growth. We continue to face competitive challenges from the new merchant and acquirer transaction routing strategies implemented by large competing networks following the issuance of the regulations related to debit routing and fees. We are closely monitoring these strategies in order to assess their impact on our business and on competition in the marketplace. The U.S. Department of Justice is examining some of these competitor pricing strategies. In addition, the Reform Act's network participation requirements impact PULSE's ability to enter into exclusivity arrangements, which affect PULSE's current business practices and may materially adversely affect its network transaction volume and revenue. Our transaction processing revenue was $192 million for the calendar year ended December 31, 2013 and $218 million and $180 million for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. While we are still assessing all of our options for responding to these developments, they have adversely impacted PULSE and we expect that they may continue to adversely impact our ability to compete for issuer participation and merchant and acquirer routing, negatively impacting PULSE transaction volume growth. Strategic Business RiskWe face competition in the credit card market from other consumer financial services providers, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in fewer customers and lower account balances and could materially adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The consumer financial services business is highly competitive. We compete with other consumer financial services providers on the basis of a number of factors, including brand, reputation, customer service, product offerings, incentives, pricing and other terms. Competition in credit cards is also based on merchant acceptance and the value provided to the customer by rewards programs. Many credit card issuers have instituted rewards programs that are similar to ours, and, in some cases, are more attractive to customers than our programs. These competitive factors affect our ability to attract and retain customers, increase usage of our products, and maximize the revenue generated by our products. In addition, because most domestically issued credit cards, other than those issued by American Express, are issued on the Visa and MasterCard networks, most other card issuers benefit from the dominant position and marketing and pricing power of Visa and MasterCard. The competitive marketplace, combined with slow economic recovery, could result in Discover being unable to grow loans, resulting in reduced revenue from its core direct banking business. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to take aggressive actions in response to competitors' actions, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We incur considerable expenses in competing with other consumer financial services providers, and many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our financial results. We incur considerable expenses in competing with other consumer financial services providers to attract and retain customers and increase usage of our products. A substantial portion of these expenses relates to marketing -28-Table of Contentsexpenditures. We incurred expenses of $717 million in the 2013 calendar year and $603 million and $537 million in the 2012 and 2011 fiscal years, respectively, for marketing and business development. Our consumer financial services products compete primarily on the basis of pricing, terms and service. Because of the highly competitive nature of the credit card issuing business, a primary method of competition among credit card issuers, including us, has been to offer rewards programs, low introductory interest rates, attractive standard purchase rates and balance transfer programs that offer a favorable annual percentage rate or other financial incentives for a specified length of time on account balances transferred from another credit card. This type of competition has adversely affected credit card yields, and customers may frequently switch credit cards or transfer their balances to another card. There can be no assurance that any of the expenses we incur or incentives we offer to attempt to acquire and maintain accounts and increase usage of our products will be effective. Furthermore, many of our competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources than we do, have more breadth in consumer banking products, and/or have lower funding and operating costs than we have and expect to have, and have assets such as branch locations and co-brand relationships, that may help them compete more effectively. For example, larger credit card issuers, which have greater resources than we do, may be better positioned to fund appealing rewards, marketing and advertising programs. We may be at a competitive disadvantage as a result of the greater financial resources, diversification and scale of many of our competitors. Our expenses directly affect our earnings results. Many factors can influence the amount of our expenses, as well as how quickly they may increase. Our ongoing investments in infrastructure, which may be necessary to maintain a competitive business, integrate newly-acquired businesses, and establish scalable operations, may increase our expenses. In addition, as our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise as a result of a reevaluation of business strategies, management of outsourced services, asset purchases, structural reorganization, compliance with new laws or regulations or the integration of newly-acquired businesses. If we are unable to successfully manage our expenses, our financial results will be negatively affected.We face competition from other operators of payment networks and alternative payment providers, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced transaction volume, limited merchant acceptance of our cards, limited issuance of cards on our networks by third parties and materially reduced earnings. We face substantial and increasingly intense competition in the payments industry, both from traditional players and new, emerging alternative payment providers. For example, we compete with other payment networks to attract network partners to issue credit and debit cards and other card products on the Discover, PULSE and Diners Club networks. Competition with other operators of payment networks is generally based on issuer fees, fees paid to networks (including switch fees), merchant acceptance, network functionality and other economic terms. Competition also is based on customer perception of service quality, brand image, reputation and market share. Further, we are facing increased competition from alternative payment providers, who may create innovative network arrangements with our primary competitors or other industry participants, which could adversely impact our costs, transaction volume and ability to grow our business.Many of our competitors are well established, larger than we are and/or have greater financial resources than we do. These competitors have provided financial incentives to card issuers, such as large cash signing bonuses for new programs, funding for and sponsorship of marketing programs and other bonuses. Visa and MasterCard each have been in existence for more than 40 years and enjoy greater merchant acceptance and broader global brand recognition than we do. Although we have made progress in merchant acceptance, we have not achieved global market parity with Visa and MasterCard. In addition, Visa and MasterCard have entered into long-term arrangements with many financial institutions that may have the effect of discouraging those institutions from issuing credit cards on the Discover Network or issuing debit cards on the PULSE network. Some of these arrangements are exclusive, or nearly exclusive, which further limits our ability to conduct material amounts of business with these institutions. If we are unable to remain competitive on issuer fees and other incentives, we may be unable to offer adequate pricing to network partners while maintaining sufficient net revenues. We also face competition as merchants put pressure on transaction fees. Increasing merchant fees or acquirer fees could adversely affect our effort to increase merchant acceptance of credit cards issued on the Discover Network and may cause merchant acceptance to decrease. This, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to attract network partners and our ability to maintain or grow revenues from our proprietary network. In addition, competitor's settlements with merchants and related actions, including pricing pressures and/or surcharging, could negatively impact our business practices. The Reform Act, which gives merchants control of the routing of debit transactions, has -29-Table of Contentsinfluenced the competitive environment for the PULSE network. For more information, see the risk factor above addressing legislative and regulatory reforms related to the debit card market.American Express is also a strong competitor, with international acceptance, high transaction fees and an upscale brand image. Internationally, American Express competes in the same market segments as Diners Club. We may face challenges in increasing international acceptance on our networks, particularly if third parties that we rely on to issue Diners Club cards, increase card acceptance, and market our brands do not perform to our expectations. In addition, if we are unable to maintain sufficient network functionality to be competitive with other networks, or if our competitors develop better data security solutions or more innovative products and services than we do, our ability to retain and attract network partners and maintain or increase the revenues generated by our proprietary card issuing business or our PULSE business may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, competitors may develop data security solutions which, as a consequence of the competitors' market power, we may be forced to use. As a result, those competitors could subject the company to adverse restrictions and our business may be adversely affected. Our business depends upon relationships with issuers, merchant acquirers and licensees, which are generally financial institutions. The economic and regulatory environment and increased consolidation in the financial services industry decrease our opportunities for new business and may result in the termination of existing business relationships if a business partner is acquired or goes out of business. In addition, as a result of this environment, financial institutions may have decreased interest in engaging in new card issuance opportunities or expanding existing card issuance relationships, which would inhibit our ability to grow our payment services business. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we received notice that certain contracts related to one third-party issuing relationship will be terminated, effective mid-2014. This loss will have a meaningful impact on our network partners volume and payment services segment profits, but we do not anticipate it to be material to our overall profitability. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining the Diners Club network and achieving full card acceptance across our networks, we may be unable to sustain and grow our international network business. In 2008, we acquired the Diners Club network, brand, trademarks, employees, and license agreements. We have made significant progress toward, but have not completed, achieving full card acceptance across the Diners Club network, the Discover Network and PULSE. This would allow Discover customers to use their cards at merchant and ATM locations that accept Diners Club cards around the world and would allow Diners Club customers to use their cards on the Discover Network in North America and on the PULSE network both domestically and internationally. The Diners Club business also depends upon our ability to maintain the full operability of the Diners Club network for existing Diners Club cardholders, network licensees and merchants. Citigroup continues to own and operate network licensees generating a significant share of the Diners Club network sales volume. Citigroup has been reducing assets outside its core businesses, including certain Diners Club businesses, by selling its ownership interest. If Citigroup were to discontinue its support of a significant number of, or key, Diners Club network licensees, we may face difficulty maintaining and growing our international network. This could adversely affect the acceptance of Discover cards when they are used outside of North America. The Diners Club business depends upon the cooperation and support of the network licensees that issue Diners Club cards and that maintain a merchant acceptance network. As is the case for other card payment networks, Diners Club does not issue cards or determine the terms and conditions of cards issued by the network licensees, with the exception of the Diners Club Italy issuing business, which we acquired in the second quarter. This is the responsibility of each licensee. Further, unlike the Discover Network, we have only a small number of direct merchant and direct merchant acquiring relationships in the Diners Club network. Instead, we rely on network licensees located outside the United States to help us sustain and grow our international business. As a result of a number of factors, including any difficulties in achieving full card acceptance across our networks, network licensees may choose not to renew the license agreements with us when their terms expire. In addition, the increasingly competitive marketplace for cross-border issuance and acceptance of credit cards may result in lower participation fees for the Diners Club network. Many of the merchants in the acceptance network, primarily small and mid-size merchants, may not be contractually committed to the network licensees for any period of time and may cease to participate in the Diners Club network at any time on short notice. If we are unable to continue our relationships with network licensees or if the network licensees are unable to continue their relationships with merchants, our ability to maintain or increase revenues and to remain competitive would be adversely affected. Interruption of these relationships might also have an adverse effect on the acceptance of Discover cards when they are used on the Diners Club network outside of North America. -30-Table of ContentsWe depend on the continuous operation of our licensees. If one or more licensees were to experience a significant impairment of their business or were to cease doing business for economic, regulatory or other reasons, we would face the adverse effects of business interruption in a particular market, including loss of volume, acceptance and revenue, and exposure to potential reputational risk. As previously disclosed, we have been working with our European Diners Club licensees with regard to their ability to maintain financing sufficient to support business operations. For example, we acquired Diners Club Italy and we provided financial assistance to facilitate the purchase of our Slovenian licensee by a European bank. These transactions resulted in a charge to earnings of approximately $40 million in the second quarter of 2013. Certain other Diners Club licensees continue to face financial difficulties, due in large part to the challenging European credit market. Going forward, we may provide other forms of support, which may include additional loans, facilitating transfer of ownership, or acquiring assets or licensees, which may cause us to incur additional losses. We rely upon numerous other network partners for merchant acceptance for existing Diners Club customers. We completed rerouting merchant transactions for foreign Diners Club cards transacting in North America from the MasterCard acceptance network to the Discover Network in 2011. If we are unable to continue to offer acceptable North American merchant acceptance to Diners Club customers, we may experience decreased transaction volume, which would reduce our revenues. Also, as we have nonamortizable intangible assets that resulted from the purchase of Diners Club, if we are unable to maintain or increase revenues due to the reasons described above, we may be exposed to an impairment loss that, when recognized, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The long-term success of our acquisition of Diners Club depends upon achieving full card acceptance across our networks, which could include higher overall costs or longer timeframes than anticipated. If we are unable to successfully achieve full card acceptance across our networks, we may be unable to achieve the synergies we anticipate and to grow our business internationally. The success of our student loan strategy depends upon our ability to manage the risks of our student loan portfolio and the student lending environment. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to sustain and grow our student loan portfolio. In December 2010, we purchased The Student Loan Corporation and, in September 2011, we purchased additional private student loans from Citibank. The acquisitions significantly increased the size of our private student loan portfolio, which has grown from $1.0 billion at November 30, 2010 to $7.3 billion at November 30, 2011 to $7.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and $8.1 billion at December 31, 2013. The long-term success of our student loan strategy depends upon our ability to manage the credit risk, pricing, funding, operations and expenses of a larger student loan portfolio, as well as grow student loan originations. Our student loan strategy is also impacted by external factors such as a poor economic environment, a challenging regulatory environment and a competitive marketplace. The CFPB is currently investigating certain student loan servicing practices of Discover Bank. See Note 20: Litigation and Regulatory Matters to our consolidated financial statements for more information. Slow economic recovery combined with government and regulatory focus on student lending and competitive factors, such as the need to offer fixed interest rates, may present challenges to managing and growing our private student loan business in the future, and could cause us to restructure our private student loan product in ways that we may not currently anticipate. In addition, changes that adversely affect the private student loan market generally may negatively impact the profitability and growth of our student loan portfolio. The success of our mortgage business acquisition depends upon our ability to maintain the operations, integrate and manage the risks of this business, and to successfully market, originate and sell mortgage loans. If we are unable to do so, the profitability of our mortgage business would be adversely affected.In June 2012, we purchased, through our subsidiary Discover Home Loans, substantially all of the operating and related assets of Home Loan Center, a subsidiary of Tree.com, adding a residential mortgage component to our direct banking business. We are now originating residential mortgages for sale in the secondary mortgage markets on a servicing-released basis. As we continue to integrate this new business, we could experience operational interruptions that could damage relationships with customers, vendors and secondary market investors, any or all of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to retain employees, especially those in key management positions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. The long-term success of our mortgage business depends upon our ability to market, originate, fund and sell Discover mortgage loans. Our mortgage loan origination volume will be largely dependent on our ability to offer competitively priced, desirable loan products under the Discover brand and our ability to attract qualified prospective borrowers. Consumers may be hesitant to originate a mortgage with us due to our recent entry into the industry. Our -31-Table of Contentsorigination volumes also may be affected by certain external factors outside our control, including adverse economic conditions, such as higher long-term interest rates, high unemployment and depressed housing values, which may result in some consumers delaying new home purchases or refinances. We expect refinance mortgage loan volume to continue to comprise a substantial, but decreasing percentage of overall mortgage loan volume for our business in the near term. In 2013, mortgage rates rose sharply, which has led to a significant decrease in refinance activity within the mortgage industry. This puts pressure on our business to continue to develop our purchase mortgage capability to replace some of the lost refinance volume. Historically, direct-to-consumer businesses have been more successful in the refinance business and less successful in the purchase market, and there is a risk that we will not be successful in developing a scalable direct-to-consumer purchase mortgage origination business. An inability to attract customers in the purchase market would lead to fewer loan originations, which would adversely affect our ability to grow the business and would result in reduced earnings. We use third parties to assist us in attracting prospective mortgage borrowers, and our origination volumes may be affected by their ability to successfully attract such borrowers and provide leads to us. We purchase leads from Tree.com pursuant to an agreement related to the acquisition of the Home Loan Center business, which expires this year. If the volume of leads available for us to purchase from Tree.com were significantly reduced and we could not substitute with purchases from other market providers, our origination volume may be negatively impacted, which would adversely affect our results of operations.Our success also will depend upon relationships with financial intermediaries, including secondary market purchasers, to which we expect to sell eligible mortgages on a servicing-released basis, and our warehouse lender, which provides funding from the time we fund a customer's mortgage until it is sold to a secondary market purchaser. The secondary mortgage markets, as well as the availability of mortgage financing, have experienced disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans (including the government-sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. Most of the market liquidity in the mortgage industry is provided, either directly or indirectly, by government sponsored entities or government agencies. Any attempts to shift market liquidity to private capital sources could impose risk to the mortgage industry to the extent that changes reduce the capacity of available funding. In addition, our recent entry into the mortgage industry, as well as continued concern about the stability of the housing market and the strength of counterparties generally, could result in fewer opportunities to sell our loans in the secondary market and servicing rights on attractive terms. If we are unable to sell our loans in the secondary market or are unable to sell servicing, we could incur additional credit risk and losses. If we are unable to retain the warehouse facility we use to fund our mortgage originations or if the costs associated therewith become unattractive, funding costs and liquidity could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, when we sell the rights to service loans we originate, we expose ourselves to the risk that borrowers will be dissatisfied with their experience with the servicer and will attribute that dissatisfaction to us.We employ various economic hedging strategies in an attempt to mitigate the interest rate risk and other risks inherent in a mortgage loan commitment. Our hedging activities include entering into derivative instruments. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could fail to mitigate our risks and losses, or even increase our risks and losses beyond what they would have been had we not used such hedging strategies.The mortgage industry is under scrutiny from regulatory agencies, legislation regarding the secondary mortgage market is under consideration by Congress, and our mortgage business is subject to examination and supervision by state mortgage regulatory agencies, as well as the CFPB, the Federal Reserve and other federal agencies, as further described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Regulatory Environment and Developments." We may incur substantial cost in preparing for and responding to regulatory examinations and investigations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements may result in, among other things, suspension or revocation of, or inability to renew, required licenses or registrations, loss of approval status, administrative enforcement actions and fines, refunds or restitution to borrowers, inability to enforce loans we make, loan repurchase or indemnification obligations, private lawsuits, class actions, cease and desist orders, civil and criminal liability, an inability to maintain or enter into new arrangements with secondary mortgage market purchasers or warehouse lenders and reputational risk. Further, the Reform Act and regulatory scrutiny have led to new regulations and regulatory guidance impacting the mortgage industry, and may lead to additional regulations and guidance in the future, which may impact the financial results and prospects for our mortgage business. For example, recent regulatory changes capping points and fees on certain types of mortgages may reduce our origination volume.The long-term success of our mortgage business depends upon our ability to manage our expenses and risks. If we are unable to build scale as planned, we may face difficulty maintaining profitability. We may also incur additional -32-Table of Contentsexpenses and risks if we are unable to successfully address and manage the regulatory and counterparty risks described above or the potential effects of government involvement in the mortgage industry. We may experience unanticipated losses as a result of mortgage loan repurchase and indemnification obligations under agreements with secondary market purchasers.We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that have been sold to secondary market purchasers in the event there are breaches of certain representations and warranties contained within the sales agreements, such as improper underwriting, fraud, or other origination defects. We also may be required to indemnify certain purchasers and others against losses they incur in the event of breaches of representations and warranties and in various other circumstances, and the amount of such losses could exceed the repurchase amount of the related loans. In connection with the sale of loans to certain secondary market purchasers, we also expect to refund premiums paid by secondary market purchasers in instances where the borrower prepays the loan within a specified period of time. We would need to find alternative purchasers for, or arrange with a third party to service, any loans that we are unable to sell or are required to repurchase.Consequently, we are exposed to credit risk, and potentially funding risk, associated with sold loans due to the risk we may be required to repurchase these loans. We establish reserves in our consolidated financial statements for potential losses related to the risk of having to repurchase mortgage loans we have sold. The adequacy of the reserves and the ultimate amount of losses incurred will depend on, among other things, the actual future mortgage loan performance, the actual level of future repurchase and indemnification requests, the actual success rate of claimants, actual recoveries on the collateral and macroeconomic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including high unemployment and depressed housing values, have resulted in missed mortgage payments and foreclosures, negatively impacting the credit performance of mortgages. While the U.S. housing market has experienced some price appreciation in 2013, the increases have been uneven and have not returned to pre-recession levels. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these market conditions on the credit performance of mortgages in general. Due to uncertainties relating to these factors, the reserves we establish may not be adequate and losses incurred could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Credit, Market and Liquidity RiskOur business depends on our ability to manage our credit risk, and failing to manage this risk successfully may result in high charge-off rates, which would materially adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to manage our credit risk while attracting new customers with profitable usage patterns. We select our customers, manage their accounts and establish terms and credit limits using proprietary scoring models and other analytical techniques that are designed to set terms and credit limits to appropriately compensate us for the credit risk we accept, while encouraging customers to use their available credit. The models and approaches we use may not accurately predict future charge-offs due to, among other things, inaccurate assumptions. While we continually seek to improve our assumptions and models, we may make modifications that unintentionally cause them to be less predictive or we may incorrectly interpret the data produced by these models in setting our credit policies. Our ability to manage credit risk and avoid high charge-off rates may be adversely affected by economic conditions that may be difficult to predict, such as the recent financial crisis. We believe that we are experiencing generally historical lows in our delinquency and charge-off rates and that these rates will be increasing over time. In addition, if economic conditions worsen, these rates may increase more than expected. The full-year net charge-off rate was 1.98% in the 2013 calendar year, down from the full-year net charge-off rate of 2.29% and 3.97% in the 2012 and 2011 fiscal years, respectively. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, and November 30, 2011, $634 million, or 0.96%, $615 million, or 0.98% and $718 million, or 1.25%, respectively, of our loan receivables were non-performing (defined as loans over 90 days delinquent and accruing interest plus loans not accruing interest). We remain subject to conditions in the consumer credit environment. There can be no assurance that our underwriting and portfolio management strategies will permit us to avoid high charge-off levels, or that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to cover actual losses. A customer's ability to repay us can be negatively impacted by increases in their payment obligations to other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer loans. Such changes can result from increases in base lending rates or structured increases in payment obligations, and could reduce the ability of our customers to meet their payment obligations to other lenders and to us. In addition, a customer's ability to repay us can be negatively impacted -33-Table of Contentsby the restricted availability of credit to consumers generally, including reduced and closed lines of credit. Customers with insufficient cash flow to fund daily living expenses and lack of access to other sources of credit may be more likely to increase their card usage and ultimately default on their payment obligations to us, resulting in higher credit losses in our portfolio. Our collection operations may not compete effectively to secure more of customers' diminished cash flow than our competitors. In addition, we may not identify customers who are likely to default on their payment obligations to us quickly and reduce our exposure by closing credit lines and restricting authorizations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to manage credit risk also may be adversely affected by legal or regulatory changes (such as bankruptcy laws, minimum payment regulations and re-age guidance), competitors' actions and consumer behavior, as well as inadequate collections staffing, techniques, models and performance of vendors such as collection agencies. We continue to expand our marketing of our personal, private student loan and home loan products, including the launch of a new home equity loan product in late 2013. Our personal and private student loan portfolios grew to $4.2 billion and $8.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2013, compared to $3.3 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012, and $2.6 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively, at November 30, 2011. We have less experience in these areas as compared to our traditional credit card lending business, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to grow these products in accordance with our strategies, manage our credit and other risks associated with these products, or generate sufficient revenue to cover our expenses in these markets. Our failure to manage our credit and other risks may materially adversely affect our profitability and our ability to grow these products, limiting our ability to further diversify our business.Adverse market conditions or an inability to effectively manage our liquidity risk could negatively impact our ability to meet our liquidity and funding needs, which could materially adversely impact our business operations and overall financial condition. We must effectively manage the liquidity risk to which we are exposed. We require liquidity in order to meet cash requirements such as day-to-day operating expenses, extensions of credit on our consumer loans and required payments of principal and interest on our borrowings. Our primary sources of liquidity and funding are payments on our loan receivables, deposits, and proceeds from securitization transactions and securities offerings. We may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility, or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity stress event. Our liquidity portfolio had a balance of approximately $11.1 billion as of December 31, 2013, compared to $8.3 billion as of December 31, 2012 and $8.5 billion as of November 30, 2011. Our total contingent liquidity sources as of December 31, 2013 amounted to $32.6 billion (consisting of $11.1 billion in our liquidity portfolio, $14.5 billion in incremental Federal Reserve discount window capacity, and $7.0 billion of undrawn capacity in private securitizations), compared to $25.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and $26.2 billion at November 30, 2011. In the event that our current sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we would be required to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit to the financial services industry, new regulatory restrictions and requirements, and our credit ratings. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital, credit or deposit markets, such as the volatility experienced in the capital and credit markets during the financial crisis, may limit our ability to repay or replace maturing liabilities in a timely manner. As such, we may be forced to delay raising funding or be forced to issue or raise funding at undesirable terms and/or costs, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. Regulations such as the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), as part of the Basel III accord, may increase pricing and impact funding availability and are described more fully in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Regulatory Environment and Developments." Further, in disorderly financial markets or for other reasons, it may be difficult or impossible to liquidate some of our investments to meet our liquidity needs. While market conditions have stabilized and, in many cases, improved, there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future. For example, recent concerns regarding U.S. debt and budget matters have caused uncertainty in U.S. financial markets. A failure to raise the U.S. debt limit and/or a downgrade of U.S. debt ratings in the future could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect the market value of the U.S. government and U.S. agency securities that we hold. Further, a collapse of a financial institution or a downgrade in the debt ratings of another country of systemic importance can have repercussions across the global financial system, negatively impacting the U.S. economy, Discover and Discover's customers. Likewise, adverse developments with respect to financial institutions and other third parties -34-Table of Contentswith whom we maintain important financial relationships could negatively impact our funding and liquidity. If we are unable to continue to fund our assets through deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms, or if we experience an increase in our borrowing costs or otherwise fail to manage our liquidity effectively, our liquidity, operating results, financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected.An inability to accept or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. We obtain deposits from consumers either directly or through affinity relationships and through third-party securities brokerage firms that offer our deposits to their customers. We had $28.4 billion in deposits acquired directly or through affinity relationships and $16.4 billion in deposits originated through securities brokerage firms as of December 31, 2013, compared to $28 billion and $14.1 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2012 and $26.2 billion and $13.3 billion, respectively, as of November 30, 2011. Competition from other financial services firms that use deposit funding and the rates and services we offer on our deposit products may affect deposit renewal rates, costs or availability. Changes we make to the rates offered on our deposit products may affect our profitability (through funding costs) and our liquidity (through volumes raised). In addition, our ability to maintain existing or obtain additional deposits may be impacted by factors, including factors beyond our control, such as perceptions about our financial strength, quality of deposit servicing or online banking generally, which could reduce the number of consumers choosing to make deposits with us, third parties continuing or entering into affinity relationships with us, or third-party securities brokerage firms offering our deposit products. Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is also dependent on capital levels of our bank subsidiaries. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the "FDIA") prohibits insured banks, including our subsidiary Discover Bank, from accepting brokered deposits (as defined in the FDIA) or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless (1) it is "well-capitalized" or (2) it is "adequately capitalized" and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is "adequately capitalized" may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is "well-capitalized." As of December 31, 2013, we had brokered deposits (as defined in the FDIA) of $16.4 billion. While Discover Bank met the FDIC's definition of “well-capitalized” as of December 31, 2013, there can be no assurance that it will continue to meet this definition. For a comparison of Discover Bank's capital ratios to the “well-capitalized” capital requirements, see Note 18: Capital Adequacy to our consolidated financial statements. Additionally, our regulators can adjust the requirements to be "well-capitalized" at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits. If we are unable to securitize our receivables, it may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cost of funds and overall financial condition. We use the securitization of credit card receivables, which involves the transfer of receivables to a trust and the issuance by the trust of beneficial interests to third-party investors, as a significant source of funding. Our average level of credit card securitized borrowings from third parties was $14.3 billion for the 2013 calendar year and $14.6 billion and $13.5 billion for the 2012 and 2011 fiscal years, respectively. Although the securitization market for credit cards has been re-established since the financial crisis, there can be no assurance that there will not be future disruptions in the market. Our ability to raise funding through the securitization market also depends, in part, on the credit ratings of the securities we issue from our securitization trusts. If we are not able to satisfy rating agency requirements to maintain the ratings of asset-backed securities issued by our trusts, it could limit our ability to access the securitization markets. Additional factors affecting the extent to which we will securitize our credit card receivables in the future include the overall credit quality of our receivables, the costs of securitizing our receivables, and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax requirements governing securitization transactions. For example, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision recently proposed changes to the rules for banks’ calculation of credit risk capital requirements for exposures to securitization transactions. The timing and impact of these proposed rules are unclear at this time, but they could impact the pricing and/or volume of our asset-backed securities issuances. A prolonged inability to securitize our credit card receivables, or an increase in the costs of such issuances, may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cost of funds and overall financial condition.-35-Table of ContentsThe occurrence of events that result in the early amortization of our existing credit card securitization transactions or an inability to delay the accumulation of principal collections in our credit card securitization trusts would materially adversely affect our liquidity. Our liquidity would be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of events that could result in the early amortization of our existing credit card securitization transactions. Credit card securitizations are normally structured as “revolving transactions” that do not distribute to securitization investors their share of monthly principal payments on the receivables during the revolving period, and instead use those principal payments to fund the purchase of new receivables. The occurrence of “early amortization events” may result in termination of the revolving periods of our securitization transactions, which would require us to repay the affected outstanding securitized borrowings out of principal collections without regard to the original payment schedule. Our average level of credit card securitized borrowings was $14.3 billion for the 2013 calendar year and $14.6 billion and $13.5 billion for the 2012 and 2011 fiscal years, respectively. Early amortization events include, for example, insufficient cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements (i.e. excess spread less than zero) and certain breaches of representations, warranties or covenants in the agreements relating to the securitization. For more information on excess spread, see Note 6: Credit Card and Student Loan Securitization Activities to our consolidated financial statements. An early amortization event would negatively impact our liquidity, and require us to rely on alternative funding sources, which may or may not be available at the time. Our credit card securitization structure includes a requirement that we accumulate principal collections into a restricted account in the amount of scheduled maturities on a pro rata basis over the 12 months prior to a security's maturity date. We have the option under our credit card securitization documents to shorten this accumulation period, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including reaffirmation from each of the rating agencies of the security's required rating. Historically, we have exercised this option to shorten the accumulation period to one month prior to maturity. If we were to determine that the payment rate on the underlying receivables would not support a one-month accumulation period, or if one or more of the rating agencies were to require an accumulation period of longer than one month, we would need to begin accumulating principal cash flows earlier than we have historically. A lengthening of the accumulation period would negatively impact our liquidity, requiring management to implement mitigating measures. During periods of significant maturity levels, absent management actions, the lengthening of the accumulation period could materially adversely affect our financial condition.A downgrade in the credit ratings of our securities could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We, along with Discover Bank, are regularly evaluated by the ratings agencies, and their ratings for our long-term debt and other securities, including asset-backed securities issued by our securitization trusts, are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors that may not be within our control. The credit ratings of the securities issued by our securitization trusts are regularly evaluated by the rating agencies. The ratings of our asset-backed securities are based on a number of factors, including the quality of the underlying receivables and the credit enhancement structure of the trusts. Downgrades in our ratings or those of our trusts could materially adversely affect our cost of funds, access to capital and funding, and overall financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings or that our credit ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn. We may not be successful in managing the investments in our liquidity investment portfolio and investment performance may deteriorate due to market fluctuations, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. We must effectively manage the risks of the investments in our liquidity investment portfolio, which is comprised of cash and cash equivalents and high quality, liquid investments. Our liquidity portfolio was $11.1 billion at December 31, 2013. Our investments may be adversely affected by market fluctuations including changes in interest rates, prices, prepayment rates, credit risk premiums and overall market liquidity. Also, investments backed by collateral could be adversely impacted by changes in the value of the underlying collateral. In addition, economic conditions may cause certain of the obligors, counterparties and underlying collateral on our investments to incur losses of their own or default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure to these investments. These risks could result in a decrease in the value of our investments, which could negatively impact our financial condition. These risks could also restrict our access to funding. Further, we may choose new investments, which may result in greater fluctuations in market value. While we expect these investments to be readily convertible into cash and do not believe they present a material increase to our risk -36-Table of Contentsprofile or will have a material impact on our risk-based capital ratios, they are subject to certain market fluctuations that may reduce the ability to fully convert them into cash.Changes in the level of interest rates could materially adversely affect our earnings. Changes in interest rates cause our net interest income and our interest expense to increase or decrease, as certain of our assets and liabilities carry interest rates that fluctuate with market benchmarks. External factors such as tapering of the Federal Reserve Stimulus program may cause interest rates to increase. The inability of the Federal Reserve to adjust monetary policy in a timely manner after a prolonged period of injecting liquidity into the economy could result in a steep increase in domestic inflation and a resulting need to rapidly increase interest rates. Tighter Federal Reserve monetary policy and rising interest rates would increase the cost of borrowing for consumers, businesses and governments. Higher interest rates could negatively impact Discover’s customers as total debt service payments would increase, impede Discover’s ability to grow its consumer lending businesses, and increase cost of funding, which would put Discover at a disadvantage as compared to competitors that have less expensive sources of funding.Some of our consumer loan receivables bear interest at a fixed rate or do not earn interest, and we are not able to increase the rate on those loans to mitigate any higher cost of funds, which could materially reduce earnings. At the same time, our variable rate loan receivables, which are based on the prime market benchmark rate, may not change at the same rate as our floating rate borrowings or may be subject to a cap, subjecting us to basis risk. The majority of our floating rate borrowings and interest rate derivatives are generally based on the one-month LIBOR rate. If the one-month LIBOR rate were to increase without a corresponding increase in the prime rate, our earnings would be negatively impacted. In addition to asset securitizations, we also utilize deposits as a significant source of funds. The majority of our existing certificates of deposit bear interest at fixed rates that do not fluctuate with market benchmarks, and we use derivative instruments to hedge the fixed rates associated with some of these certificates of deposit. However, new deposit issuances are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Certificates of deposit we issue directly to consumers are subject to early withdrawal penalties, which may not mitigate early withdrawal behavior in a rising interest rate environment. Interest rates may also adversely impact our delinquency and charge-off rates. Many consumer lending products bear interest rates that fluctuate with certain base lending rates published in the market, such as the prime rate and LIBOR. As a result, higher interest rates often lead to higher payment requirements by consumers under obligations to us and other lenders, which may reduce their ability to remain current on their obligations to us and thereby lead to loan delinquencies and additions to our loan loss provision, which could materially adversely affect our earnings. We continually monitor interest rates and have a number of tools including composition of investments, liability terms and interest rate derivatives to manage our interest rate risk exposure. Changes in market assumptions regarding future interest rates could significantly impact our interest rate risk strategy, our financial position and results of operations. If our methods are not appropriately monitored or executed, these activities may not effectively mitigate our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. For information related to interest rate risk sensitivities, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." We may be limited in our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our stock.In the 2013 calendar year, we increased our quarterly common stock dividend to $0.20 per share and repurchased approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock under our share repurchase program. The declaration and payment of future dividends, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to the discretion of our board of directors. The amount and size of any future dividends and share repurchases will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory approval and other factors. Holders of our shares of common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of holders of our preferred stock or the depositary shares representing such preferred stock outstanding, and if full dividends have not been declared and paid on all outstanding shares of preferred stock in any dividend period, no dividend may be declared or paid or set aside for payment on our common stock. Banking laws and regulations and our banking regulators may limit our ability to pay dividends and make share repurchases. For example, our ability to make capital distributions, including our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our stock, is subject to the Federal Reserve's review and non-objection of our annual capital plan. In certain circumstances, we will not be able to make a capital distribution unless the Federal Reserve has approved such distribution. Further, current or future regulatory initiatives may require us to hold more capital in the future. There can be no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends on our common stock or our preferred stock or repurchase any shares of our stock in the future. -37-Table of ContentsWe are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. Discover Financial Services, our parent holding company, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments, share repurchases, payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, and to provide funding and capital as needed to its operating subsidiaries. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, some of our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock as described above. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank subsidiaries. For more information, see "Business — Supervision and Regulation — Capital, Dividends and Share Repurchases." Operational and Other RiskOur framework and models for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating our risk of loss. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures, limits and reporting requirements. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models that we use to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur increased losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework and models do not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.If our security systems, or those of third parties, containing information about us, our customers or third parties with which we do business, are compromised, we may be subject to liability and damage to our reputation. Our direct banking and network operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential information about us, our customers and third parties with which we do business. Information security risks for financial institutions have increased and are continuing to increase, in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, activists, hackers and other external parties. Our technologies, systems, networks and software, and those of other financial institutions, have been and are likely to continue to be the target of cyber attacks, malicious code, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, social engineering and physical attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. These types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems through our information security and business continuity programs, we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches or events of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. As we rely on many third-party service providers and network participants, a security breach or cyber attack affecting one of these third parties could impact us through no fault of our own. Further, to access our products and services, our customers may use computers and mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems.We are subject to increasingly more risk related to security systems as we increase acceptance of the Discover card internationally, expand our suite of online direct banking products, enhance our mobile payment technologies, acquire new or outsource some of our business operations, and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. If our security systems or those of third parties are penetrated or circumvented such that the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information about us, our customers, transactions processed on our networks or third parties with which we do business is compromised, we could be subject to significant liability that may not be covered by insurance, including significant legal and financial exposure, actions by our regulators, damage to our reputation, or a loss of confidence in the security of our systems, products and services that could materially adversely affect our business. -38-Table of ContentsWe may be unable to increase or sustain Discover card usage, which could impair growth in, or lead to diminishing, average balances and total revenue. A key element of our business strategy is to increase the usage of the Discover card by our customers, including making it their primary card, and thereby increase our revenue from transaction and service fees and interest income. However, our customers' use and payment patterns may change because of social, legal and economic factors, and customers may decide to use debit cards or other payment products instead of credit cards, not to increase card usage, or to pay the balances within the grace period to avoid finance charges. We face challenges from competing card products in our attempts to increase credit card usage by our existing customers. Our ability to increase card usage also is dependent on customer satisfaction, which may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control, including competitors' actions and legislative/regulatory changes. Existing legal and regulatory restrictions limit pricing changes that may impact an account throughout its lifecycle, which may reduce our capability to offer lower price promotions to drive account usage and customer engagement. As part of our strategy to increase usage, we have been increasing the number of merchants who accept cards issued on the Discover Network. If we are unable to continue increasing merchant acceptance or fail to improve awareness of existing merchant acceptance of our cards, our ability to grow usage of Discover cards may be hampered. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to increase or sustain credit card usage, which could impair growth in or lead to diminishing average balances and total revenue. Our transaction volume is concentrated among large merchants, and a reduction in the number of, or rates paid by, large merchants that accept cards on the Discover Network or PULSE network could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Discover card transaction volume was concentrated among our top 100 merchants in 2013, with our largest merchant accounting for approximately 8% of that transaction volume. Transaction volume on the PULSE network was also concentrated among the top 100 merchants in 2013, with our largest merchant accounting for approximately 17% of PULSE transaction volume. These merchants could seek to negotiate better pricing or other financial incentives by continuing to participate in the Discover Network and/or PULSE network only on the condition that we change the terms of their economic participation. Loss of acceptance at our largest merchants would decrease transaction volume, negatively impact our brand, and could cause customer attrition. At the same time, we are subject to pricing pressure from network partners, who generally have a greater ability than merchants to negotiate higher interchange fees. In addition, some of our merchants, primarily our remaining small and mid-size merchants, are not contractually committed to us for any period of time and may cease to participate in the Discover Network at any time on short notice. Actual and perceived limitations on acceptance of credit cards issued on the Discover Network or debit cards issued on the PULSE network could adversely affect the use of Discover cards by existing customers and the attractiveness of the Discover card to prospective new customers. Also, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining network partners if we are unable to add and retain acquirers or merchants who accept cards issued on the Discover or PULSE networks. As a result of these factors, a reduction in the number of, or rates paid by, our merchants could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the increasing focus of merchants on the fees charged by credit card and debit card networks. Merchant acceptance and fees are critical to the success of both our card issuing and payment processing businesses. Merchants are concerned with the fees charged by credit card and debit card networks. They seek to negotiate better pricing or other financial incentives as a condition to continued participation in the Discover Network and PULSE network. During the past few years, merchants and their trade groups have filed numerous lawsuits against Visa, MasterCard, American Express and their card-issuing banks, claiming that their practices toward merchants, including issuer fees, violate federal antitrust laws. There can be no assurance that they will not in the future bring legal proceedings against other credit card and debit card issuers and networks, including us. Merchants also may promote forms of payment with lower fees, such as ACH-based payments, or seek to impose surcharges at the point of sale for use of credit or debit cards. Merchant groups have also promoted federal and state legislation that would restrict issuer practices or enhance the ability of merchants, individually or collectively, to negotiate more favorable fees. The heightened focus by merchants on the fees charged by credit card and debit card networks, together with the Reform Act and recent U.S. Department of Justice settlements with Visa and MasterCard, which would allow merchants to encourage customers to use other payment methods or cards and may increase merchant surcharging, could lead to reduced transactions on, or merchant acceptance of, Discover Network or PULSE network cards or reduced fees, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. -39-Table of ContentsPolitical, economic or other instability in a country or geographic region, or other unforeseen or catastrophic events, could adversely affect our international business activities and reduce our revenue. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, may have a negative effect on our business and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Our Diners Club network, concentrated on primarily serving the global travel industry, could be adversely affected by international conditions that may result in a decline in consumer or business travel activity. Armed conflict, public health emergencies, natural disasters or terrorism may have a significant negative effect on travel activity and related revenue. Although a regionalized event or condition may primarily affect one of our network participants, it may also affect our overall network and card activity and our resulting revenue. Overall network and card transaction activity may decline as a result of concerns about safety or disease or may be limited because of economic conditions that result in spending on travel to decline. The impact of such events and other catastrophes on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Fraudulent activity associated with our products or our networks could cause our brands to suffer reputational damage, the use of our products to decrease and our fraud losses to be materially adversely affected. We are subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with merchants, customers and other third parties handling customer information. Our fraud losses have been increasing and we incurred losses of $110 million, $93 million and $72 million for the calendar year ended December 31, 2013 and the fiscal years ended November 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Credit and debit card fraud, identity theft and related crimes are prevalent and perpetrators are growing ever more sophisticated. Our resources and fraud prevention tools may be insufficient to accurately predict and prevent fraud. The risk of fraud continues to increase for the financial services industry in general. Additionally, our risk of fraud continues to increase as acceptance of the Discover card grows internationally and we expand our direct banking business. Our financial condition, the level of our fraud charge-offs and other results of operations could be materially adversely affected if fraudulent activity were to significantly increase. High profile fraudulent activity could negatively impact our brand and reputation. In addition, significant increases in fraudulent activity could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance) and reputational and financial damage to our brands, which could negatively impact the use of our cards and networks and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, fraudulent activity may result in lower license fee revenue from our Diners Club licensees. The financial services and payment services industries are rapidly evolving, and we may be unsuccessful in introducing new products or services on a large scale in response to these changes. The financial services and payment services industries experience constant and significant technological changes, such as continuing development of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices, electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. The effect of technological changes on our business is unpredictable. We depend, in part, on third parties for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies relating to the payments business will continue to appear in the market, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies that we currently use in our products and services. Rapidly-evolving technologies and new entrants in mobile and emerging payments pose a risk to Discover both as a card issuer and to the payments business. As a result, our future success may be dependent on our ability to identify and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards and to provide payment solutions for our customers, merchants and financial institution customers. Difficulties or delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of new products or services may be caused by a number of factors including, among other things, operational, capital and regulatory constraints. The occurrence of such difficulties may affect the success of our products or services, and developing unsuccessful products and services could result in financial losses, as well as decreased capital availability. In addition, the new products and services offered may not be attractive to consumers and merchant and financial institution customers. Also, success of a new product or service may depend upon our ability to deliver it on a large scale, which may require a significant capital investment that we may not be in a position to make. If we are unable to successfully introduce and maintain new income-generating products and services, it may impact our ability to compete effectively and materially adversely affect our business and earnings. -40-Table of ContentsWe rely on third parties to deliver services. If we face difficulties managing our relationships with third-party service providers, our revenue or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We depend on third-party service providers for many aspects of the operation of our business. For example, we depend on third parties for software and systems development, the timely transmission of information across our data transportation network, and for other telecommunications, processing, remittance and technology-related services in connection with our direct banking and payment services businesses. If a service provider fails to provide the services that we require or expect, or fails to meet contractual requirements, such as service levels or compliance with applicable laws, the failure could negatively impact our business by adversely affecting our ability to process customers' transactions in a timely and accurate manner, otherwise hampering our ability to serve our customers, or subjecting us to litigation and regulatory risk for poor vendor oversight. Such a failure could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of our networks and services, and the quality of our brands, and could materially adversely affect our revenues and/or our results of operations. We rely on technology to deliver services. If key technology platforms become obsolete, or if we experience disruptions, including difficulties in our ability to process transactions, our revenue or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Our ability to deliver services to our customers and run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be affected by the functionality of our technology systems. The implementation of technology changes and upgrades to maintain current and integrated systems may result in compliance issues and may, at least temporarily, cause disruptions to our business, including, but not limited to, systems interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays, all of which could have a negative impact on us. In addition, our transaction processing systems and other operational systems may encounter service interruptions at any time due to system or software failure, natural disaster or other reasons. Such services could be disrupted at any of our primary or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities. Third parties to whom we outsource the maintenance and development of certain technological functionality may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to sustain our investment in new technology to avoid obsolescence of critical systems and applications. A failure to maintain current technology, systems and facilities or to control third-party risk, could cause disruptions in the operation of our business, which could materially adversely affect our transaction volumes, revenues, reputation and/or our results of operations.Merchant defaults may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. As an issuer and merchant acquirer in the United States on the Discover Network, and as a holder of certain merchant agreements internationally for the Diners Club network, we may be contingently liable for certain disputed credit card sales transactions that arise between customers and merchants. If a dispute is resolved in the customer's favor, we will cause a credit or refund of the amount to be issued to the customer and charge back the transaction to the merchant or merchant acquirer. If we are unable to collect this amount from the merchant or merchant acquirer, we will bear the loss for the amount credited or refunded to the customer. Where the purchased product or service is not provided until some later date following the purchase, such as an airline ticket, the likelihood of potential liability increases. For the calendar year ended December 31, 2013 and the fiscal years ended November 30, 2012 and 2011 losses related to merchant chargebacks were not material.Our success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key employees. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate key officers and employees to manage our business well, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key officers and employees to manage our business. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. We believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. We may be subject to restrictions under future legislation or regulation limiting executive compensation. For example, the federal banking agencies issued guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations and the Reform Act imposes additional disclosures and restrictions on compensation. These restrictions could negatively impact our ability to compete with other companies in recruiting and retaining key personnel and could impact our ability to offer incentives that motivate our key personnel to perform. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel to manage our business well, our business could be materially adversely affected. -41-Table of ContentsDamage to our reputation could damage our business. Recently, financial services companies have been experiencing increased reputational risk as consumers protest and regulators scrutinize practices of such companies to maintain or increase business and revenues. Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and retaining customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, and the activities of customers, business partners and counterparties. Social media can also cause harm to our reputation. By its very nature, social media can reach a wide audience in a very short amount of time, which makes it difficult to control the message. Negative or ‘wrong’ type of publicity generated through unexpected social media coverage can damage Discover’s reputation and brand. Negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may result in customer attrition and other harm to our business prospects. We may be unsuccessful in promoting and protecting our brands or protecting our other intellectual property, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. The Discover, PULSE and Diners Club brands have substantial economic and goodwill value. Our success is dependent on our ability to promote and protect these brands and our other intellectual property. Our ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon the external perception of our company and brands. Our brands are licensed for use to business partners and network participants, some of whom have contractual obligations to promote and develop our brands. For example, the Discover card brand is now being issued by certain Diners Club licensees in their local markets. If our business partners do not adhere to contractual standards, engage in improper business practices, or otherwise misappropriate, use or diminish the value of our brands or our other intellectual property, we may suffer reputational and financial damage. If we will not be able to adequately protect ourselves, our overall business success may be adversely affected. In addition, third parties may allege that our marketing, processes or systems may infringe their intellectual property rights. Given the potential risks and uncertainties of such claims, our business could be adversely affected by having to pay significant monetary damages or licensing fees, and we may have to alter our business practices. Acquisitions or strategic investments that we pursue may not be successful and could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition or reduce our earnings. In the past three years, Discover has been expanding its business beyond credit cards both organically and through acquisitions. We may consider or undertake additional strategic acquisitions of, or material investments in, businesses, products, portfolios of loans or technologies in the future. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or even if we do identify suitable candidates, they may be difficult to finance, expensive to fund and there is no guarantee that we can obtain any necessary regulatory approvals or complete the transactions on terms that are favorable to us. We generally must receive federal regulatory approvals before we can acquire a bank, bank holding company, deposits or certain assets or businesses. For additional information regarding bank regulatory limitations on acquisitions and investments, see "Business — Supervision and Regulation — Acquisitions and Investments." To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash, it may have an adverse effect on our financial condition; similarly, if the purchase price is paid with our stock, it may be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, we may assume liabilities associated with a business acquisition or investment, including unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered at the time of the transaction, and the repayment or settlement of those liabilities may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate the personnel, operations, businesses, products, or technologies of an acquisition or investment. Integration may be particularly challenging if we enter into a line of business in which we have limited experience and the business operates in a difficult legal, regulatory or competitive environment. We may find that we do not have adequate operations or expertise to manage the new business. The integration of any acquisition or investment may divert management's time and resources from our core business, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers and strategic partners and disrupt our operations. Acquisitions and investments also may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel, customers or vendors. If we fail to integrate acquisitions or investments or realize the expected benefits, we may lose the return on these acquisitions or investments or incur additional transaction costs, and our business, reputation and financial condition may be harmed as a result. -42-Table of ContentsLaws, regulations, and supervisory guidance and practices, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with an array of banking and consumer lending laws and regulations in all of the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a bank holding company, we are subject to oversight, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve, including scrutiny of our risk management program; business strategy, earnings, capital and cash flow; anti-money laundering program; and examination of our non-bank businesses, including Discover Network, PULSE and Diners Club, and their relationships with our banking subsidiaries. Our banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation and regular examinations by the FDIC, the Delaware Commissioner and the CFPB. To the extent that states enact requirements that differ from federal standards or state officials and courts adopt interpretations of federal consumer laws that differ from those adopted by the CFPB, we may face increased inquiries and enforcement actions from state attorney general offices. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, state banking regulators and the U.S. Department of Justice, as well as the SEC and New York Stock Exchange in our capacity as a public company. From time to time, these regulations and regulatory agencies have required us to alter certain of our operating practices, and may require us to do the same in the future. Our ability to execute our business strategies through acquisitions or the introduction of new products or pricing may be impaired or delayed as a result of regulatory review or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals. Various federal and state regulators have broad discretion to impose restrictions and requirements on our company, subsidiaries and operations, including restrictions on capital actions such as increasing dividends. U.S. federal laws, such as the CARD Act, and state consumer protection laws and rules, limit the manner and terms on which we may offer and extend credit. We have had class action lawsuits filed against us alleging that we have violated various federal and state laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We are subject to capital, funding and liquidity requirements prescribed by statutes, regulations and orders, including initiatives that will require us to hold higher levels of capital to support our businesses. We also are subject to the requirements of accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, the SEC, banking regulators and our independent registered public accounting firm), who may add new requirements or change their interpretations on how standards should be applied, such as the proposed accounting standards related to calculation of loan loss reserves, potentially materially impacting how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Discover Bank also is subject to FDIC increases in deposit insurance assessments or additional special assessments, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Reform Act has removed the statutory cap for the reserve ratio, leaving the FDIC free to set a cap in the future.In addition, regulation of the payments industry, including regulation applicable to us, merchant acquirers and our other business partners and customers, has expanded significantly in recent years and is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in costly new compliance burdens being imposed on us and our customers and lead to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. The Reform Act includes provisions governing debit and credit card network businesses. Various U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and state legislatures have considered new legislation or regulations relating to restrictions regarding fees charged to merchants and acquirers, as well as additional charges for premium payment card transactions, and other restrictions related to identity theft, privacy, data security and marketing that could have a direct effect on us and our merchant and financial institution customers. Internationally, we are subject to government regulation in countries in which our networks operate or our cards are used, either directly or indirectly through regulation affecting Diners Club network licensees. We, our Diners Club licensees and Diners Club customers are subject to laws and regulations that affect the payments industry in many countries in which our cards are used. We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws, that prohibit the making or offering of improper payments. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could lead to adverse consequences such as financial, structural, reputational and operational penalties, including receivership, litigation exposure and fines (as described further below). Failure to comply with anti-corruption and other laws can expose us and/or individual employees to potentially severe criminal and civil penalties. Legislative and regulatory changes could impact the profitability of our business activities, require us to limit or change our business practices or our product offerings, and expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). Significant changes in laws and regulations may have a more adverse effect on our results of operations than on the results of our larger, more diversified competitors. For additional recent legislative and regulatory developments that may affect our business, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Regulatory Environment and Developments." -43-Table of ContentsCurrent and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could inhibit the number of payment cards issued and increase our costs. Regulatory pronouncements relating to consumer privacy, data use and security affect our business. In the United States, we are subject to a number of laws concerning consumer privacy and data use and security. We are subject to the Federal Trade Commission's and the banking regulators' information safeguard rules under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The rules require that financial institutions (including us) develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution's size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution's activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. The United States has experienced a heightened legislative and regulatory focus on privacy and data security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. In addition, most states have enacted security breach legislation requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of certain types of security breaches, and several other states are considering similar legislation. Regulation of privacy, data use and security may cause an increase in the costs to issue payment cards and/or may decrease the number of our cards that we or third parties issue. New regulations in these areas also may increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could negatively impact our earnings. In addition, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business and reputation. In 2013, and at the beginning of 2014, various reports were issued by several major retailers with respect to unauthorized access to payment card and other data of millions of customers. As a result, members of Congress and state legislators have expressed an interest in investigating the incident and possibly enacting legislation to address future data security breaches. These recent developments could result in the imposition of requirements on Discover or other card issuers or networks that could increase costs or adversely affect the competitiveness of our credit card or debit card products. It is too early to know the final form any such legislation would take, if any such legislation will become law, or the impact such law would have on Discover.Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses. Businesses in the credit card industry have historically been subject to significant legal actions, including class action lawsuits and commercial, shareholder and patent litigation. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory, statutory or punitive damages. While we have historically relied on our arbitration clause in agreements with customers to limit our exposure to consumer class action litigation, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in enforcing our arbitration clause in the future. Legal challenges to the enforceability of these clauses have led most card issuers, and may cause us, to discontinue their use. There have been bills pending in Congress to directly or indirectly prohibit the use of pre-dispute arbitration clauses. Also, the Reform Act authorized the CFPB to conduct a study on pre-dispute arbitration clauses and, based on the study, potentially limit or ban arbitration clauses. A preliminary report on arbitration agreements issued by the CFPB expressed concerns about these agreements that may signal the agency is contemplating taking such steps. Further, we are involved in pending legal actions challenging our arbitration clause. In addition, we have been and may again be involved in various actions or proceedings brought by governmental regulatory agencies, which could harm our reputation, require us to limit our business activities and product offerings, or subject us to significant fines, penalties, customer restitution or other requirements, resulting in increased expenses. See Note 20: Litigation and Regulatory Matters to our consolidated financial statements for more information.  Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K and materials we have filed or will file with the SEC (as well as information included in our other written or oral statements) contain or will contain certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would” and “could” are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. You should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this annual report -44-Table of Contentson Form 10-K, including those described under “Risk Factors.” The statements are only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following: •changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt, and investor sentiment;•the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation, supervisory guidance, and regulatory and legal actions, including, but not limited to, those related to financial regulatory reform, consumer financial services practices, anti-corruption and funding, capital and liquidity;•the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors;•our ability to manage our expenses;•our ability to successfully achieve full card acceptance across our networks and maintain relationships with network participants;•our ability to sustain and grow our private student loan and mortgage loan products;•our ability to manage our credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk;•the availability and cost of funding and capital;•access to deposit, securitization, equity, debt and credit markets;•losses as a result of mortgage loan repurchase and indemnification obligations to secondary market purchasers;•the impact of rating agency actions;•the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments, other market fluctuations and other market indices;•losses in our investment portfolio;•limits on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock;•limits on our ability to receive payments from our subsidiaries;•fraudulent activities or material security breaches of key systems;•our ability to increase or sustain Discover card usage or attract new customers;•our ability to maintain relationships with merchants;•the effect of political, economic and market conditions, geopolitical events and unforeseen or catastrophic events;•our ability to introduce new products or services;•our ability to manage our relationships with third-party vendors;•our ability to maintain current technology and integrate new and acquired systems;•our ability to collect amounts for disputed transactions from merchants and merchant acquirers;•our ability to attract and retain employees;•our ability to protect our reputation and our intellectual property;•difficulty obtaining regulatory approval for, financing, closing, transitioning, integrating or managing the expenses of acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products or technologies; and•new lawsuits, investigations or similar matters or unanticipated developments related to current matters.We routinely evaluate and may pursue acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products, technologies, loan portfolios or deposits, which may involve payment in cash or our debt or equity securities.-45-Table of ContentsThe foregoing review of important factors should not be construed as exclusive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on Form 10-K. These factors expressly qualify all subsequent oral and written forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf. Except for any ongoing obligations to disclose material information as required under U.S. federal securities laws, we do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we distribute this annual report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Item 1B