Item 1A.   Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risks described below and all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K in evaluating us. Our business, financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. This annual report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” which immediately follows the risks below. Economic conditions have had and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. While certain economic conditions in the United States have shown signs of improvement, economic growth has been slow and uneven as consumers continue to be affected by high unemployment rates and depressed housing values. In addition, recent concerns and events such as economic uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform and its effect on the revenues of financial services companies, U.S. debt and budget matters and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, may continue to impact economic recovery and the financial services industry. A prolonged period of slow economic growth or a significant deterioration in economic conditions would likely affect the ability and willingness of customers to pay amounts owed to us. A customer's ability to repay us also can be negatively impacted by increases in their payment obligations to other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer loans. Although delinquencies and charge-offs declined significantly in 2011, we believe that we are experiencing historical lows in these rates and that they are likely to increase. In addition, if economic conditions do not improve, these rates may increase more than expected. The over 30 days delinquent rate was 2.30% at November 30, 2011, down from 3.89% at November 30, 2010, and the full-year net charge-off rate was 3.99% for 2011, down from 7.57% for 2010. As our delinquency and charge-off rates rise, we expect to increase our allowance for loan losses. Due in part to improvements in certain economic indicators, our provision for loan losses has declined substantially, to $1.0 billion for the 2011 fiscal year, as compared to $3.2 billion for the 2010 fiscal year. Lower levels of delinquency and charge-offs reduced our reserve requirements and led to reserve releases in 2011, which significantly contributed to our net income growth. Growth in our loan portfolio, along with stagnant or worsening economic conditions, would contribute to rising delinquency and charge-offs and increases in our allowance for loan losses, which could negatively impact our net income.Our business is always influenced by economic conditions. Poor economic conditions not only affect the ability and willingness of customers to pay amounts owed to us, increasing delinquencies, charge-offs and allowance for loan losses as described above, but can also reduce the usage of our cards and the average purchase amount of transactions on our cards, which reduces our interest income and transaction fees. We rely heavily on interest income from our credit card business to generate earnings. Our interest income from credit card loans was $5.7 billion for the 2011 fiscal year, which was 80% of revenues (defined as net interest income plus other income), compared to $5.8 billion in the 2010 fiscal year, which was 88% of revenues. Economic conditions may also cause our earnings to fluctuate and diverge from expectations of securities analysts and investors, who may have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our business and, therefore, may impact the trading price of our common stock.The regulatory environment for the financial services industry is being significantly impacted by financial regulatory reform initiatives, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Reform Act”) contains a comprehensive set of provisions designed to govern the practices and oversight of financial institutions and other participants in the financial markets. The Reform Act addresses risks to the economy and the payments system posed by large systemically significant financial firms, including us, through a variety of measures, including increased capital and liquidity requirements, limits on leverage, and enhanced supervisory authority. The Reform Act also establishes a new financial industry regulator, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), and includes new requirements for debit card transactions, which impact our core businesses and are described in more detail below. Our banking regulators have introduced and continue to introduce new regulations and supervisory guidance and practices in response to the heightened Congressional and regulatory focus on financial services generally, increasing their scrutiny over us and the industry. Also, additional legislative or regulatory action that may impact our business may result from the multiple studies mandated under the Reform Act. We are unable to predict the nature, extent or impact of any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, which may occur in the future.21Table of ContentsThe effect of the Reform Act and other regulatory initiatives on our business and operations could be significant, depending upon final implementing regulations, the actions of our competitors and the behavior of consumers and other marketplace participants. The Reform Act, other legislative and regulatory changes, and enhanced scrutiny by our regulators could have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, limiting fees we can charge for services, requiring us to meet more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements (including those under Basel III), impacting the value of our assets, increasing our cost or ability to access the securitization markets for our funding, or otherwise adversely affecting our businesses. The Reform Act, its implementing regulations, and any other significant financial regulatory reform initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A more comprehensive description of the Reform Act is contained in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Environment and Developments.”For additional information regarding the risks we face in connection with the Reform Act and other laws and regulations, see the following risk factors below: "The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may increase our compliance costs and have a significant impact on our business," "Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to the student loan market may have a significant impact on our strategy of profitably growing our student loan portfolio," "Legislative and regulatory reforms related to the debit card market may have a significant impact on our PULSE network business and may result in decreases in our PULSE network volume and revenue," "The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 restricts our business practices and negatively impacts our results of operations," "If we are unable to securitize our receivables, it may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cost of funds and overall financial condition," "We may be limited in our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock," "Laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance and practices, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations," "Current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could inhibit the number of payment cards issued and increase our costs," and "Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses."   The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may increase our compliance costs and have a significant impact on our business. In July 2011, many consumer financial protection functions formerly assigned to the federal banking and other agencies transferred to the CFPB. The CFPB has a large budget and staff, and has broad authority with respect to the businesses in which we engage. It has authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, and enforce those laws against and examine large financial institutions, including Discover, for compliance. It is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. In late 2011, the CFPB began tracking consumer complaints for credit cards and mortgages via an online process that is expected to expand to student loans in 2012. It has authority to prevent “unfair, deceptive or abusive” practices by issuing regulations or by using its enforcement authority without first establishing regulatory guidance. Because the CFPB has been recently established and its Director has been only recently appointed, there is significant uncertainty as to how the CFPB will exercise and implement its regulatory, supervisory, examination and enforcement authority. Depending on how the CFPB functions and its areas of focus, it could have a material adverse impact on our businesses.  The CFPB is expected to establish multiple divisions, each with its own rule writing and compliance examination specialists, to focus on businesses in which we engage or expect to engage (such as revolving loans, student loans, mortgages, other consumer loans and payments). Changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. In addition to increasing our compliance costs and potentially delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, actions by the CFPB could result in requirements to alter our products and services that would make our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably. Should the CFPB discourage the use of products we offer or steer consumers to other products or services that it deems to be preferable, we could suffer reputational harm and a loss of customers. The CFPB's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators (e.g., regulations issued under the Truth in Lending Act or the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, or the CARD Act, by the Federal Reserve), or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. Our litigation exposure may also be increased by the CFPB's authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. 22Table of ContentsThe Reform Act authorizes state officials to enforce regulations issued by the CFPB and to enforce the Reform Act's general prohibition against unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, and makes it more difficult than in the past for federal financial regulators to declare state laws that differ from federal standards to be preempted. To the extent that states enact requirements that differ from federal standards or state officials and courts adopt interpretations of federal consumer laws that differ from those adopted by the CFPB, we may be required to alter or cease offering products or services in some jurisdictions, which would increase compliance costs and reduce our ability to offer the same products and services to consumers nationwide, and we may be subject to a higher risk of state enforcement actions.Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to the student loan market may have a significant impact on our strategy of profitably growing our student loan portfolio.We have invested in the growth of our private student loan portfolio, including through the acquisition of SLC in December 2010 and the acquisition of additional private student loans in September 2011. Our total student loans have grown from $1.0 billion at November 30, 2010 to $7.3 billion at November 30, 2011. There is significant legislative and regulatory focus on the student loan market, including by the CFPB, which has made it a priority area of focus. Under the Reform Act, the CFPB and Department of Education (“DOE”) are required to prepare a report on private education loans and private educational lenders by July 2012 that examines, among other things, the private education loan market; underwriting criteria used by lenders; loan terms, conditions and pricing; consumer protections available to borrowers; and fair lending considerations.  The Reform Act also created a "Private Education Ombudsman" within the CFPB to receive and attempt to informally resolve complaints about private student loans, and the CFPB plans to receive such complaints via its online consumer complaint system. In addition, the Obama Administration has made changes to the federal student loan program intended to make college more affordable and make it easier for students to repay their federal student loans. Congress or the Administration may take actions that impact the student loan market in the future, including as a result of the CFPB and DOE study. The possible impact of heightened scrutiny of the student loan market and its participants, including any resulting legislative and regulatory initiatives, is uncertain and may adversely impact the profitability and growth of our private student loan portfolio. Legislative and regulatory reforms related to the debit card market may have a significant impact on our PULSE network business and may result in decreases in our PULSE network volume and revenue. The Reform Act contains several provisions that may adversely affect our PULSE network's business practices, network transaction volume, revenue, and prospects for future growth. First, the Reform Act requires that interchange fees received by certain payment card issuers on debit card transactions be “reasonable and proportional” to the issuer's cost in connection with such transactions, as determined by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve also has the power to regulate network fees to the extent necessary to prevent circumvention of interchange regulation under the Reform Act. In addition, the Reform Act requires the Federal Reserve to restrict debit card networks and issuers from requiring debit card transactions to be processed solely on a single payment network or two or more affiliated networks, or from requiring that transactions be routed over certain networks. The Federal Reserve issued final implementing regulations with respect to the interchange fee and routing provisions in June 2011, some of which became effective in October 2011. Regulations mandating that debit and prepaid card issuers participate in two or more unaffiliated payment networks take effect April 1, 2012. Discover Network and PULSE have modified operating rules, interchange fee schedules and existing agreements to ensure consistency with the Reform Act and Federal Reserve implementing regulations. PULSE has increased its processing capacity for potential additional volume. The Reform Act requirements may significantly affect the debit card market, decrease prospects for future growth of debit products, negatively impact PULSE's transaction volume and revenue, and require costly system changes. For example, the network participation requirements impact PULSE's ability to enter into exclusivity arrangements, which affect PULSE's current business practices and may materially adversely affect its network transaction volume and revenue. Our transaction processing revenue was $180 million and $150 million for the years ended November 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The ultimate impact of these laws and regulations will depend upon the actions of our competitors and the behavior of other marketplace participants. For example, the National Retail Federation, the Food Marketing Institute, the National Association of Convenience Stores and two retailers have filed a federal lawsuit challenging the Federal Reserve implementing regulations and, in particular, the interchange fee provisions, on the grounds that, among other things, the Federal Reserve did not properly apply the Reform Act. It is uncertain how PULSE's business practices, network transaction volume, revenue, and prospects for future growth, as well as the debit card market as a whole, may be impacted by the industry's competitive response to these new requirements.23Table of ContentsThe Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 restricts our business practices and negatively impacts our results of operations. The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the "CARD Act") has required us to make fundamental changes to many of our business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. The CARD Act's restrictions on our ability to increase interest rates on existing balances to respond to market conditions and credit risk ultimately limits our ability to extend credit to new customers and provide additional credit to current customers. Other CARD Act restrictions with respect to allocation of payments on accounts and adjustments to interest rates have resulted and will continue to result in reduced interest income. We rely heavily on interest income. Our interest income from credit card loans was $5.7 billion for the 2011 fiscal year, which was 80% of revenues (defined as net interest income plus other income), compared to $5.8 billion in the 2010 fiscal year, which was 88% of revenues. The CARD Act's restrictions on late and other penalty fees have reduced our loan fee income and may impact our ability to deter late payments. Our loan fee income was $338 million for the 2011 fiscal year, compared to $340 million in the 2010 fiscal year, which was 5% of revenues in each year. We have made changes to our pricing, credit and marketing practices designed to lessen the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act. The long-term impact of the CARD Act on credit card industry profitability generally, and on our business practices and revenues, continue to depend upon consumer behavior and the actions of our competitors, which remain difficult to predict. Consumers may generally choose to use credit cards less frequently or for smaller dollar amounts. We may have to reconsider certain strategies in order to remain competitive. For example, in the event of another market downturn, we may have to consider expense-reduction initiatives in order to offset our inability to generate increased interest and fee income due to the CARD Act's repricing restrictions. If the changes we have made and may make in the future to offset the impact of the CARD Act are not effective in the long term, they may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We face competition from other consumer financial services providers, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in fewer customers and lower account balances and could materially adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The consumer financial services business is highly competitive. We compete with other consumer financial services providers on the basis of a number of factors, including brand, reputation, customer service, product offerings, incentives, pricing and other terms. Competition in credit cards is also based on merchant acceptance and the value provided to the customer by rewards programs. Many credit card issuers have instituted rewards programs that are similar to ours, and, in some cases, are more attractive to customers than our programs. These competitive factors affect our ability to attract and retain customers, increase usage of our products, and maximize the revenue generated by our products. In addition, because most domestically issued credit cards, other than those issued by American Express, are issued on the Visa and MasterCard networks, most other card issuers benefit from the dominant position and marketing and pricing power of Visa and MasterCard. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to take aggressive actions in response to competitors' actions, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We incur considerable expenses in competing with other consumer financial services providers, and many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our financial results. We incur considerable expenses in competing with other consumer financial services providers to attract and retain customers and increase usage of our products. A substantial portion of these expenses relates to marketing expenditures. We incurred expenses of $537 million and $463 million in the 2011 and 2010 fiscal years, respectively, for marketing and business development. Our consumer financial services products compete primarily on the basis of pricing, terms and service. Because of the highly competitive nature of the credit card issuing business, a primary method of competition among credit card issuers, including us, has been to offer rewards programs, low introductory interest rates, attractive standard purchase rates and balance transfer programs that offer a favorable annual percentage rate or other financial incentives for a specified length of time on account balances transferred from another credit card. This type of competition has adversely affected credit card yields, and customers may frequently switch credit cards or transfer their balances to another card. There can be no assurance that any of the expenses we incur or incentives we offer to attempt to acquire and maintain accounts and increase usage of our products will be effective. Furthermore, many of our competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources than we do, have more breadth in consumer banking products, and/or have lower funding and operating costs than we have and expect to have, and have assets such as branch locations and co-brand relationships, that may help them compete more effectively. We may be at a competitive disadvantage as a result of the greater financial resources, diversification and scale of many of our competitors. 24Table of ContentsOur expenses directly affect our earnings results. Many factors can influence the amount of our expenses, as well as how quickly they may increase. Our ongoing investments in infrastructure, which may be necessary to maintain a competitive business, integrate newly-acquired businesses, and establish scalable operations, may increase our expenses. In addition, as our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise as a result of a reevaluation of business strategies, management of outsourced services, asset purchases, structural reorganization, compliance with new laws or regulations or the integration of newly-acquired businesses. If we are unable to successfully manage our expenses, our financial results will be negatively affected.We face competition from other operators of payment networks, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced transaction volume, limited merchant acceptance of our cards, limited issuance of cards on our networks by third parties and materially reduced earnings. We face substantial and increasingly intense competition in the payments industry. We compete with other payment networks to attract third-party issuers to issue credit and debit cards and other card products on the Discover, PULSE and Diners Club networks. Competition with other operators of payment networks is generally based on issuer interchange fees, fees paid to networks (including switch fees), merchant acceptance, network functionality and other economic terms. Competition also is based on customer perception of service quality, brand image, reputation and market share. Many of our competitors are well established, larger than we are and/or have greater financial resources than we do. These competitors have provided financial incentives to card issuers, such as large cash signing bonuses for new programs, funding for and sponsorship of marketing programs and other bonuses. Visa and MasterCard each have been in existence for more than 40 years and enjoy greater merchant acceptance and broader global brand recognition than we do. Although we have made progress in merchant acceptance, we have not achieved global market parity with Visa and MasterCard. In addition, Visa and MasterCard have entered into long-term arrangements with many financial institutions that may have the effect of discouraging those institutions from issuing credit cards on the Discover Network or issuing debit cards on the PULSE network. Some of these arrangements are exclusive, or nearly exclusive, which further limits our ability to conduct material amounts of business with these institutions. If we are unable to remain competitive on issuer interchange and other incentives, we may be unable to offer adequate pricing to third-party issuers while maintaining sufficient net revenues. At the same time, increasing the transaction fees charged to merchants or increasing acquirer interchange could adversely affect our effort to increase merchant acceptance of credit cards issued on the Discover Network and may cause merchant acceptance to decrease. This, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to attract third-party issuers and our ability to maintain or grow revenues from our proprietary network. The Reform Act, which gives merchants control of the routing of debit transactions, could also result in a decrease in volume and revenue for the PULSE network.American Express is also a strong competitor, with international acceptance, high transaction fees and an upscale brand image. Internationally, American Express competes in the same market segments as Diners Club. We may face challenges in increasing international acceptance on our networks, particularly if third parties that we rely on to issue Diners Club cards, increase card acceptance, and market our brands do not perform to our expectations. In addition, if we are unable to maintain sufficient network functionality to be competitive with other networks, or if our competitors develop better data security solutions or more innovative products and services than we do, our ability to attract third-party issuers and maintain or increase the revenues generated by our proprietary card issuing business may be materially adversely affected. An inability to compete effectively with other payment networks could result in reduced transaction volume, limited merchant acceptance of our cards, limited issuance of cards on our network by third parties and materially reduced earnings. Our business depends upon relationships with issuers, merchant acquirers and licensees, which are generally financial institutions. The adverse economic and regulatory environment and increased consolidation in the financial services industry decrease our opportunities for new business and may result in the termination of existing business relationships if a business partner is acquired or goes out of business. In addition, as a result of this environment, financial institutions may have decreased interest in engaging in new card issuance opportunities or expanding existing card issuance relationships, which would inhibit our ability to grow our payment services business. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining the Diners Club network and achieving full card acceptance across our networks, we may be unable to sustain and grow our international network business. In 2008, we acquired the Diners Club network, brand, trademarks, employees, and license agreements. We have made significant progress toward, but have not completed, achieving full card acceptance across the Diners Club network, the Discover Network and PULSE. This would allow Discover customers to use their cards at merchant and ATM locations that accept Diners Club cards around the world and would allow Diners Club customers to use their cards on the Discover Network in North America and on the PULSE network both domestically and internationally. 25Table of ContentsThe success of our Diners Club business depends upon our ability to maintain the full operability of the Diners Club network for existing Diners Club cardholders, network licensees and merchants. Citigroup owns and operates network licensees generating a significant share of the Diners Club network sales volume. Citigroup has been reducing assets outside its core businesses, including certain Diners Club businesses, by selling its ownership interest. If Citigroup were to discontinue its support of a significant number of or key Diners Club network licensees, we may face difficulty maintaining and growing our international network. This could adversely affect the acceptance of Discover cards when they are used outside of North America. The success of our Diners Club business depends upon the cooperation and support of the network licensees that issue Diners Club cards and that maintain a merchant acceptance network. As is the case for other card payment networks, Diners Club does not issue cards or determine the terms and conditions of cards issued by the network licensees. This is the responsibility of each licensee. Further, unlike the Discover Network, we have only a small number of direct merchant relationships in the Diners Club network. Instead, we rely on network licensees located outside the United States to help us sustain and grow our international business. As a result of a number of factors, including any difficulties in achieving full card acceptance across our networks, network licensees may choose not to renew the license agreements with us when their terms expire. In addition, the increasingly competitive marketplace for cross-border issuance and acceptance of credit cards may result in lower participation fees for the Diners Club network. In addition, many of the merchants in the acceptance network, primarily small and mid-size merchants, may not be contractually committed to the network licensees for any period of time and may cease to participate in the Diners Club network at any time on short notice. If we are unable to continue our relationships with network licensees or if the network licensees are unable to continue their relationships with merchants, our ability to maintain or increase revenues and to remain competitive would be adversely affected. Interruption of these relationships might also have an adverse effect on the acceptance of Discover cards when they are used on the Diners Club network outside of North America. We rely upon numerous other network partners for merchant acceptance for existing Diners Club customers. We completed rerouting merchant transactions for foreign Diners Club cards transacting in North America from the MasterCard acceptance network to the Discover Network in 2011. If we are unable to continue to offer acceptable North American merchant acceptance to Diners Club customers, we may experience decreased transaction volume, which would reduce our revenues. Also, as we have nonamortizable intangible assets that resulted from the purchase of Diners Club, if we are unable to maintain or increase revenues due to the reasons described above, we may be exposed to an impairment loss that, when recognized, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The long-term success of our acquisition of Diners Club depends upon achieving full card acceptance across our networks, which could include higher overall costs or longer timeframes than anticipated. If we are unable to successfully achieve full card acceptance across our networks, we may be unable to achieve the synergies we anticipate and to grow our business internationally. The success of our student loan strategy depends upon our ability to fully integrate The Student Loan Corporation. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to sustain and grow our student loan portfolio. In December 2010, we purchased SLC and, in September 2011, we purchased additional private student loans from Citi. The acquisitions significantly increased the size of our private student loan portfolio, which has grown from $1.0 billion at November 30, 2010 to $7.3 billion at November 30, 2011. The success of these acquisitions depends, in part, upon our ability to manage the risks resulting from our relatively recent entry into the student loan market. We are relying heavily on the assistance of Citi and certain of its affiliates during a transition period for many services, including services related to operations, technology, marketing and origination. If we are unable to assume responsibility for these services during the established transition period, we will need to enter into an extension of our agreement with Citi or identify other service providers, which may not be available on favorable pricing or terms, if at all. If we were to lose the support of Citi before these services were successfully transitioned to our employees or another service provider, we could experience interruptions in operations that could negatively impact our ability to meet customer demand for student loan originations and disbursements, damage our relationships with schools, customers and vendors, and reduce our market share in the student loan market, all of which could adversely affect our student loan strategy and results of operations. The long-term success of our student loan strategy depends upon our ability to manage the credit risk, pricing, funding, operations and expenses of a larger student loan portfolio as well as the successful implementation of our brand strategy. We currently originate student loans under the Discover brand and acquire student loans from Citi that are marketed under the CitiAssist brand; however, our agreement with Citi regarding CitiAssist student loans is expected to expire at the end of 2012. In the 2011 fiscal year, 57% of our newly-disbursed private student loans were originated by Citi under the CitiAssist brand. Our ability to maintain or increase market share is largely dependent upon our ability to migrate to a single, cohesive suite of student loan products marketed under the Discover brand, as well as our ability to communicate effectively to prospective borrowers and schools about these products. We plan to continue to offer competitively priced products by managing our 26Table of Contentsexpenses through building economies of scale, which will reduce our origination and servicing costs. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives, it may have a negative impact on our results of operations, affect our competitive position in the marketplace and prevent us from sustaining and growing our student loan portfolio.Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating our risk of loss. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models that we use to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur increased losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Our business depends on our ability to manage our credit risk, and failing to manage this risk successfully may result in high charge-off rates, which would materially adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to manage our credit risk while attracting new customers with profitable usage patterns. We select our customers, manage their accounts and establish terms and credit limits using proprietary scoring models and other analytical techniques that are designed to set terms and credit limits to appropriately compensate us for the credit risk we accept, while encouraging customers to use their available credit. The models and approaches we use may not accurately predict future charge-offs due to, among other things, inaccurate assumptions. While we continually seek to improve our assumptions and models, we may make modifications that unintentionally cause them to be less predictive or we may incorrectly interpret the data produced by these models in setting our credit policies. Our ability to manage credit risk and avoid high charge-off rates may be adversely affected by economic conditions that may be difficult to predict, such as the recent financial crisis. Although delinquencies and charge-offs declined significantly in 2011, we believe that we are experiencing historical lows in these rates and that they are likely to increase. In addition, if economic conditions do not improve, these rates may increase more than expected. The full-year net charge-off rate was 3.99% in 2011, down from the full-year net charge-off rate of 7.57% in 2010. At November 30, 2011 and 2010, $718 million, or 1.25%, and $1.2 billion, or 2.42%, of our loan receivables were non-performing (defined as loans over 90 days delinquent and accruing interest plus loans not accruing interest). We remain subject to conditions in the consumer credit environment. There can be no assurance that our underwriting and portfolio management strategies will permit us to avoid high charge-off levels, or that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to cover actual losses. A customer's ability to repay us can be negatively impacted by increases in their payment obligations to other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer loans. Such changes can result from increases in base lending rates or structured increases in payment obligations, and could reduce the ability of our customers to meet their payment obligations to other lenders and to us. In addition, a customer's ability to repay us can be negatively impacted by the restricted availability of credit to consumers generally, including reduced and closed lines of credit. Customers with insufficient cash flow to fund daily living expenses and lack of access to other sources of credit may be more likely to increase their card usage and ultimately default on their payment obligations to us, resulting in higher credit losses in our portfolio. Our collection operations may not compete effectively to secure more of customers' diminished cash flow than our competitors. In addition, we may not identify customers who are likely to default on their payment obligations to us quickly and reduce our exposure by closing credit lines and restricting authorizations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to manage credit risk also may be adversely affected by legal or regulatory changes (such as bankruptcy laws, minimum payment regulations and re-age guidance), competitors' actions and consumer behavior, as well as inadequate collections staffing, techniques, models and performance of vendors such as collection agencies. We have expanded our marketing of our personal and private student loan products. Also, we significantly increased the size of our student loan portfolio through two acquisitions in the past fiscal year. Our personal and private student loan portfolios grew to $2.6 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively, at November 30, 2011, compared to $1.9 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, at November 30, 2010. We have less experience in these areas as compared to our traditional credit card lending business, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to grow these products in accordance with our strategies, manage our credit risk or generate sufficient revenue to cover our expenses in these markets. Our failure to manage our credit risks may materially adversely affect our profitability and our ability to grow these products, limiting our ability to further diversify our business.27Table of ContentsAdverse market conditions or an inability to effectively manage our liquidity risk could negatively impact our ability to meet our liquidity and funding needs, which could materially adversely impact our business operations and overall financial condition. We must effectively manage the liquidity risk to which we are exposed. We require liquidity in order to meet cash requirements such as day-to-day operating expenses, extensions of credit on our consumer loans and required payments of principal and interest on our borrowings. Our primary sources of liquidity and funding are payments on our credit card loan receivables, deposits, and proceeds from securitization transactions and securities offerings. We may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility, or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity stress event. Our liquidity portfolio had a balance of approximately $8.5 billion as of November 30, 2011, compared to $10.1 billion as of November 30, 2010. Our total contingent liquidity sources as of November 30, 2011 amounted to $26.2 billion (consisting of $8.5 billion in our liquidity portfolio, $8.4 billion in incremental Federal Reserve discount window capacity, $2.4 billion in a revolving credit facility, and $6.8 billion of undrawn capacity in private securitizations), compared to $22.5 billion at November 30, 2010. Effective December 16, 2011, we terminated the $2.4 billion revolving credit facility due to the availability of other sources of contingent liquidity. In the event that our current sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we would be required to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit to the financial services industry, new regulatory restrictions and requirements, and our credit ratings. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital, credit or deposit markets, such as the volatility experienced in the capital and credit markets during the financial crisis, may limit our ability to repay or replace maturing liabilities in a timely manner. As such, we may be forced to delay raising funding or be forced to issue or raise funding at undesirable terms and/or costs, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. Further, in disorderly financial markets or for other reasons, it may be difficult or impossible to liquidate some of our investments to meet our liquidity needs. While market conditions have stabilized and, in many cases, improved, there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future. For example, recent concerns regarding U.S. debt and budget matters and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe have caused uncertainty in financial markets. Although the U.S. debt limit was increased, a failure to raise the U.S. debt limit and/or a downgrade of U.S. debt ratings in the future could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms and the market value of the U.S. government securities that we hold, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operation of our business and our financial results and condition. Other material adverse effects could include a reduction in our credit ratings resulting from a further decrease in the probability of government support for large financial institutions such as Discover assumed by the rating agencies in their current credit ratings. If we are unable to continue to fund our assets through deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms, or if we experience an increase in our borrowing costs or otherwise fail to manage our liquidity effectively, our liquidity, operating results, financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected.An inability to accept or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. We obtain deposits from consumers either directly or through affinity relationships and through third-party securities brokerage firms that offer our deposits to their customers. We had $26.2 billion in deposits acquired directly or through affinity relationships and $13.3 billion in deposits originated through securities brokerage firms as of November 30, 2011, compared to $20.6 billion and $13.7 billion, respectively, as of November 30, 2010. Competition from other financial services firms that use deposit funding and the rates we offer on our deposit products may affect deposit renewal rates, costs or availability.  Changes we make to the rates offered on our deposit products may affect our profitability (through funding costs) and our liquidity (through volumes raised). In addition, our ability to maintain existing or obtain additional deposits may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including perceptions about our financial strength or online banking generally, which could reduce the number of consumers choosing to make deposits with us, third parties continuing or entering into affinity relationships with us, or third-party securities brokerage firms offering our deposit products. Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is also dependent on capital levels of our bank subsidiaries. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the "FDIA") prohibits insured banks, including our subsidiary Discover Bank, from accepting brokered deposits (as defined in the FDIA) or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless (1) it is "well-capitalized" or (2) it is "adequately capitalized" and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is "adequately capitalized" may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is "well-capitalized." As of November 30, 2011, we had brokered deposits (as defined in the FDIA) of $16.9 billion. While Discover Bank met the FDIC's definition of “well-capitalized” as of November 30, 2011, there can be no assurance that it will continue to meet this 28Table of Contentsdefinition. For a comparison of Discover Bank's capital ratios to the “well-capitalized” capital requirements, see Note 19: Capital Adequacy to our consolidated financial statements. Additionally, our regulators can adjust the requirements to be "well-capitalized" at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits. If we are unable to securitize our receivables, it may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cost of funds and overall financial condition. Historically, we have used the securitization of credit card receivables, which involves the transfer of receivables to a trust and the issuance by the trust of beneficial interests to third-party investors, as a significant source of funding. Our average level of securitized borrowings from third parties was $13.5 billion for fiscal year 2011 and $17.2 billion for fiscal year 2010. Securitization markets experienced a significant drop in liquidity in 2007 and remain disrupted for some asset classes. The securitization market for credit cards, however, has been re-established, although still not fully at terms or volumes that are similar to pre-2007 levels.The Reform Act imposes a number of significant changes related to asset-backed securities that may impact our ability and desire to securitize our receivables. For example, the Reform Act nullified Rule 436(g) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) effective immediately, which subjects the rating agencies to “expert liability” under Section 11 of the Securities Act for misstatements or omissions of material facts in connection with credit ratings contained in registration statements. In response to this measure, the major credit rating agencies issued statements indicating that they would be unwilling to provide issuers with consent to use credit ratings in their registration statements. In order to provide a transition period, the SEC issued a “no-action” letter in July 2010 allowing issuers to omit credit ratings from registration statements until January 24, 2011. In November 2010, the SEC issued a second letter extending this no-action period indefinitely. Failure to ultimately resolve this issue could impact the market for registered asset-backed securities. The SEC has also proposed revised rules for asset-backed securities offerings that, if adopted, would substantially change the disclosure, reporting and offering process for public and private offerings of asset-backed securities. Recent legislative proposals have affected the timing and final form of these proposals, as the SEC has sought additional comment from market participants. Significant changes to the disclosure requirements or registration process for securitizations could make them more expensive, making securitization less attractive as a funding source. The ability of issuers of asset-backed securities to obtain necessary credit ratings for their issuances has been based, in part, on qualification under the FDIC's safe harbor rule for assets transferred in securitizations. The FDIC issued a final rule for its securitization safe harbor which requires issuers to comply with a new set of requirements in order to qualify for the safe harbor. Issuances out of our existing credit card securitization trusts are “grandfathered” under the new FDIC final rule. However, preserving this grandfathered status imposes certain restrictions on our trusts. In the event that we would not be able to meet such restrictions, we would need to create new trusts to securitize our receivables.  Qualification for the safe harbor with respect to any new trust that we may create to securitize our assets would require us to satisfy the requirements of the FDIC's new final rule. Our ability to raise funding through the securitization market also depends, in part, on the credit ratings of the securities we issue from our securitization trusts. If we are not able to satisfy rating agency requirements to maintain the ratings of asset-backed securities issued by our trusts, it could limit our ability to access the securitization markets. Additional factors affecting the extent to which we will securitize our credit card receivables in the future include the overall credit quality of our receivables, the costs of securitizing our receivables, and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax requirements governing securitization transactions. A prolonged inability to securitize our receivables may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cost of funds and overall financial condition. The occurrence of events that result in the early amortization of our existing credit card securitization transactions or an inability to delay the accumulation of principal collections in our credit card securitization trusts would materially adversely affect our liquidity. Our liquidity would be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of events that could result in the early amortization of our existing credit card securitization transactions. Credit card securitizations are normally structured as “revolving transactions” that do not distribute to securitization investors their share of monthly principal payments on the receivables during the revolving period, and instead use those principal payments to fund the purchase of replacement receivables. The occurrence of “early amortization events” may result in termination of the revolving periods of our securitization transactions, which would require us to repay the affected outstanding securitized borrowings out of principal collections without regard to the original payment schedule. Our average level of securitized borrowings was $13.5 billion for fiscal year 2011 and $17.2 billion for fiscal year 2010. Early amortization events include, for example, insufficient cash flows 29Table of Contentsin the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements (i.e. excess spread less than zero), certain breaches of representations, warranties or covenants in the agreements relating to the securitization, and receivership or insolvency of Discover Bank. For more information on excess spread, see Note 7: Credit Card and Student Loan Securitization Activities to our consolidated financial statements. An early amortization event would negatively impact our liquidity, and require us to rely on alternative funding sources, which may or may not be available at the time. Our credit card securitization structure includes a requirement that we accumulate principal collections into a restricted account in the amount of scheduled maturities on a pro rata basis over the 12 months prior to a security's maturity date. We have the option under our credit card securitization documents to shorten this accumulation period, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including reaffirmation from each of the rating agencies of the security's required rating. Historically, we have exercised this option to shorten the accumulation period to one month prior to maturity. If we were to determine that the payment rate on the underlying receivables would not support a one-month accumulation period, or if one or more of the rating agencies were to require an accumulation period of longer than one month, we would need to begin accumulating principal cash flows earlier than we have historically. A lengthening of the accumulation period would negatively impact our liquidity, requiring management to implement mitigating measures. During periods of significant maturity levels, absent management actions, the lengthening of the accumulation period could materially adversely affect our financial condition.A downgrade in the credit ratings of our securities could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We, along with Discover Bank, are regularly evaluated by the ratings agencies, and their ratings for our long-term debt and other securities, including asset-backed securities issued by our securitization trusts, are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors that may not be within our control. The credit ratings of the securities issued by our securitization trusts are regularly evaluated by the rating agencies. The ratings of our asset-backed securities are based on a number of factors, including the quality of the underlying receivables and the credit enhancement structure of the trusts. Downgrades in our ratings or those of our trusts could materially adversely affect our cost of funds, access to capital and funding, and overall financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings or that our credit ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn. We may not be successful in managing the investments in our liquidity investment portfolio and investment performance may deteriorate due to market fluctuations, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. We must effectively manage the risks of the investments in our liquidity investment portfolio, which is comprised of cash and cash equivalents and high quality, liquid investments. Our investments may be adversely affected by market fluctuations including changes in interest rates, prices, credit risk premiums and overall market liquidity. Also, investments backed by collateral could be adversely impacted by changes in the value of the underlying collateral. In addition, continued poor economic conditions may cause certain of the obligors, counterparties and underlying collateral on our investments to incur losses of their own or default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure to these investments. These risks could result in a decrease in the value of our investments, which could negatively impact our financial condition. Further, in an effort to increase the rate of return on our investment portfolio, we may choose new investments, which may result in greater fluctuations in market value. While we expect these investments to be readily convertible into cash and do not believe they present a material increase to our risk profile or will have a material impact on our risk-based capital ratios, they are subject to certain market fluctuations that may reduce the ability to fully convert them into cash.Changes in the level of interest rates could materially adversely affect our earnings. Changes in interest rates cause our interest expense to increase or decrease, as certain of our debt instruments carry interest rates that fluctuate with market benchmarks. If we are unable to pass any higher cost of funds to our customers, the increase in interest expense could materially reduce earnings. Some of our consumer loan receivables bear interest at a fixed rate or do not earn interest, and we may not be able to increase the rate on those loans to mitigate any higher cost of funds. At the same time, our variable rate loan receivables, which are based on the prime market benchmark rate, may not change at the same rate as our floating rate borrowings or may be subject to a cap, subjecting us to basis point risk. The majority of our floating rate borrowings are asset securitizations, which are generally based on the 1-month LIBOR rate. If the prime rate were to decrease without a decrease in the 1-month LIBOR rate, our earnings would be negatively impacted. In addition to asset securitizations, we also utilize deposits as a significant source of funds. Our interest costs associated with existing certificates of deposit are fixed and, therefore, we cannot decrease the rate we pay on these deposits to mitigate any higher cost of funds. New deposit issuances are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. 30Table of ContentsInterest rates may also adversely impact our delinquency and charge-off rates. Many consumer lending products bear interest rates that fluctuate with certain base lending rates published in the market, such as the prime rate and LIBOR. As a result, higher interest rates often lead to higher payment requirements by consumers under obligations to us and other lenders, which may reduce their ability to remain current on their obligations to us and thereby lead to loan delinquencies and additions to our loan loss provision, which could materially adversely affect our earnings. We regularly monitor interest rates and have entered into interest rate derivative agreements in an effort to manage our interest rate risk exposure. Changes in market assumptions regarding future interest rates could significantly impact the valuation of our derivative instruments and, accordingly, impact our financial position and results of operations. If our hedging activities are not appropriately monitored or executed, these activities may not effectively mitigate our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. For information related to interest rate risk sensitivities, see "-Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."We may be limited in our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock. We increased our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.02 per share to $0.06 per share in the second quarter of 2011 and then to $0.10 per share in the first quarter of 2012. In addition, we approved a new two-year $1.0 billion share repurchase program in June 2011, and repurchased 18 million shares, or approximately 3%, of our common stock, for $425 million during the remainder of the 2011 fiscal year. The declaration and payment of future dividends, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors. The amount and size of any future dividends and share repurchases will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors. In addition, banking laws and regulations and our banking regulators may limit our ability to pay dividends and make share repurchases. For example, our ability to make capital distributions, including our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock, is subject to the Federal Reserve's review and non-objection of our annual capital plan. In certain circumstances, we will not be able to make a capital distribution unless the Federal Reserve has approved such distribution. Further, current or future regulatory initiatives may require us to hold more capital in the future.  For additional information regarding capital, dividends and share repurchases, see "Business - Supervision and Regulation - Capital, Dividends and Share Repurchases," "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Environment and Developments - Capital and Liquidity," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital" and Note 19: Capital Adequacy to our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends or repurchase any shares of our common stock in the future. If our security systems, or those of merchants, merchant acquirers or other third parties containing information about customers, are compromised, we may be subject to liability and damage to our reputation. Our security protection measures or the security protections of third parties participating in our networks may not be sufficient to protect the confidentiality of information relating to customers or transactions processed on our networks. Customer data also may be stored on systems of third-party service providers and merchants whose security protections measures may not be adequate. Third-party carriers regularly transport customer data, and may lose sensitive customer information. Unauthorized access to our networks or any of our other information systems potentially could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems or transmitted by our customers or others. As we increase acceptance of the Discover card internationally and expand our suite of direct banking products, we may experience additional risks related to security systems. If our security systems or those of merchants, processors or other third-party service providers are compromised such that this confidential information is disclosed to unauthorized parties, we may be subject to liability. For example, in the event of a security breach, we may incur losses related to fraudulent use of cards issued by us as well as the operational costs associated with reissuing cards. Although we take preventive measures to address these factors, such measures are costly and may become more costly in the future. Moreover, these measures may not protect us from liability, which may not be adequately covered by insurance, or from damage to our reputation. We may be unable to increase or sustain Discover card usage, which could impair growth in, or lead to diminishing, average balances and total revenue. A key element of our business strategy is to increase the usage of the Discover card by our customers, including making it their primary card, and thereby increase our revenue from transaction and service fees and interest income. However, our customers' use and payment patterns may change because of social, legal and economic factors, and customers may decide to use debit cards or other payment products instead of credit cards, not to increase card usage, or to pay the balances within the grace period to avoid finance charges. We face challenges from competing card products in our attempts to increase credit card usage by our existing customers. Our ability to increase card usage also is dependent on customer satisfaction, which may be 31Table of Contentsadversely affected by factors outside of our control, including competitors' actions and legislative/regulatory changes. The CARD Act limits pricing changes that may impact an account throughout its lifecycle, which may reduce our capability to offer lower price promotions to drive account usage and customer engagement. As part of our strategy to increase usage, we have been increasing the number of merchants who accept cards issued on the Discover Network. If we are unable to continue increasing merchant acceptance or fail to improve awareness of existing merchant acceptance of our cards, our ability to grow usage of Discover cards may be hampered. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to increase or sustain credit card usage, which could impair growth in or lead to diminishing average balances and total revenue. Our transaction volume is concentrated among large merchants, and a reduction in the number of, or rates paid by, large merchants that accept cards on the Discover Network or PULSE network could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Discover card transaction volume was concentrated among our top 100 merchants in 2011, with our largest merchant accounting for approximately 8% of that transaction volume.  Transaction volume on the PULSE network was also concentrated among the top 100 merchants in 2011, with our largest merchant accounting for approximately 13% of PULSE transaction volume.  These merchants could seek to negotiate better pricing or other financial incentives by continuing to participate in the Discover Network and/or PULSE network only on the condition that we change the terms of their economic participation. Loss of acceptance at our largest merchants would decrease transaction volume, negatively impact our brand, and could cause customer attrition. At the same time, we are subject to pricing pressure from third-party issuers, who generally have a greater ability than merchants to negotiate higher interchange fees. In addition, some of our merchants, primarily our remaining small and mid-size merchants, are not contractually committed to us for any period of time and may cease to participate in the Discover Network at any time on short notice. Actual and perceived limitations on acceptance of credit cards issued on the Discover Network or debit cards issued on the PULSE network could adversely affect the use of Discover cards by existing customers, the attractiveness of the Discover card to prospective new customers and the interest of other financial institutions in issuing cards on the Discover Network or the PULSE network. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining third-party issuers if we are unable to add and retain acquirers or merchants who accept cards issued on the Discover or PULSE networks. As a result of these factors, a reduction in the number of, or rates paid by, our merchants could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to grow earnings if we are unable to increase or maintain the number of small and mid-size merchants that participate in the Discover Network. In order to expand our merchant acceptance among small and mid-size merchants, we have been entering into agreements with and have been using third-party acquirers and processors to add merchants to the Discover Network and accept and process payments for these merchants on an integrated basis with Visa and MasterCard payments. This strategy could result in decreased revenues, higher expenses, degraded service and signage placement levels and retaliatory responses from competitors. There can be no assurance that the use of third-party acquirers and processors will continue to increase merchant acceptance among small or mid-size merchants, or that such third-party acquirers will continue to work with us. If we are unable to continue to increase or maintain small and mid-size merchant acceptance, our competitive position and our ability to grow earnings could be adversely affected. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the increasing focus of merchants on the fees charged by credit card and debit card networks. Merchant acceptance and fees are critical to the success of both our card issuing and payment processing businesses. Merchants are concerned with the fees charged by credit card and debit card networks. They seek to negotiate better pricing or other financial incentives as a condition to continued participation in the Discover Network and PULSE network. During the past few years, merchants and their trade groups have filed numerous lawsuits against Visa, MasterCard, American Express and their card-issuing banks, claiming that their practices toward merchants, including interchange fees, violate federal antitrust laws. There can be no assurance that they will not in the future bring legal proceedings against other credit card and debit card issuers and networks, including us. Merchants also may promote forms of payment with lower fees, such as ACH-based payments, or seek to impose surcharges at the point of sale for use of credit or debit cards. Merchant groups have also promoted federal and state legislation that would restrict issuer practices or enhance the ability of merchants, individually or collectively, to negotiate more favorable fees. The heightened focus by merchants on the fees charged by credit card and debit card networks, together with the Reform Act and recent U.S. Department of Justice settlements with Visa and MasterCard, which would allow merchants to encourage customers to use other payment methods or cards, could lead to reduced transactions on, or merchant acceptance of, Discover Network or PULSE network cards or reduced fees, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32Table of ContentsPolitical, economic or other instability in a country or geographic region, or other unforeseen or catastrophic events, could adversely affect our international business activities and reduce our revenue. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, may have a negative effect on our business and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Our Diners Club network, concentrated on primarily serving the global travel industry, could be adversely affected by international conditions that may result in a decline in consumer or business travel activity. Armed conflict, public health emergencies, natural disasters or terrorism may have a significant negative effect on travel activity and related revenue. Although a regionalized event or condition may primarily affect one of our network participants, it may also affect our overall network activity and our resulting revenue. Overall network transaction activity may decline as a result of concerns about safety or disease or may be limited because of economic conditions that result in spending on travel to decline. The impact of such events and other catastrophes on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Fraudulent activity associated with our products or our networks could cause our brands to suffer reputational damage, the use of our products to decrease and our fraud losses to be materially adversely affected. We are subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with merchants, customers and other third parties handling customer information. Our fraud losses were $72 million and $44 million for the years ended November 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Credit and debit card fraud, identity theft and related crimes are prevalent and perpetrators are growing ever more sophisticated. Our resources and fraud prevention tools may be insufficient to accurately predict and prevent fraud. The risk of fraud is expected to increase as we expand the acceptance of the Discover card internationally and expand our direct-to-consumer deposit business. Our financial condition, the level of our fraud charge-offs and other results of operations could be materially adversely affected if fraudulent activity were to significantly increase. High profile fraudulent activity could negatively impact our brand and reputation. In addition, significant increases in fraudulent activity could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance) and reputational and financial damage to our brands, which could negatively impact the use of our cards and networks and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, fraudulent activity may result in lower license fee revenue from our Diners Club licensees. The financial services and payment services industries are rapidly evolving, and we may be unsuccessful in introducing new products or services on a large scale in response to this evolution. The financial services and payment services industries experience constant and significant technological changes, such as continuing development of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices, electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. The effect of technological changes on our business is unpredictable. We depend, in part, on third parties for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies relating to the payments business will continue to appear in the market, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies that we currently use in our products and services. As a result, our future success may be dependent on our ability to identify and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards and to provide payment solutions for our customers, merchants and financial institution customers. Difficulties or delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of new products or services may be caused by a number of factors including, among other things, operational, capital and regulatory constraints. The occurrence of such difficulties may affect the success of our products or services, and developing unsuccessful products and services could result in financial losses, as well as decreased capital availability. In addition, the new products and services offered may not be attractive to consumers and merchant and financial institution customers. Also, success of a new product or service may depend upon our ability to deliver it on a large scale, which may require a significant capital investment that we may not be in a position to make. If we are unable to successfully introduce and maintain new income-generating products and services, it may impact our ability to compete effectively and materially adversely affect our business and earnings.We rely on third parties to deliver services. If we face difficulties managing our relationships with third-party service providers, our revenue or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We depend on third-party service providers for many aspects of the operation of our business. We depend on third parties for the timely transmission of information across our data transportation network and for other telecommunications, processing, remittance and technology-related services in connection with our direct banking and payment services businesses. If a service provider fails to provide the services that we require or expect, or fails to meet contractual requirements, such as service levels or compliance with applicable laws, the failure could negatively impact our business by adversely affecting our ability to process customers' transactions in a timely and accurate manner, otherwise hampering our ability to serve our customers, or subjecting us to litigation and regulatory risk. Such a failure could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of our networks and services and the quality of our brands, and could materially adversely affect our revenues and/or our results of operations. 33Table of ContentsWe rely on technology to deliver services. If key technology platforms become obsolete, or if we experience disruptions, including difficulties in our ability to process transactions, our revenue or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Our ability to deliver services to our customers and run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be affected by the functionality of our technology systems. The implementation of technology changes and upgrades to maintain current and integrated systems may, at least temporarily, cause disruptions to our business, including, but not limited to, systems interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays, all of which could have a negative impact on us. In addition, our transaction processing systems and other operational systems may encounter service interruptions at any time due to system or software failure, natural disaster or other reasons. Such services could be disrupted at any of our primary or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities. We also outsource the maintenance and development of our technological functionality in many cases to third parties, who may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to sustain our investment in new technology to avoid obsolescence of critical systems and applications.  A failure to maintain current technology, systems and facilities or to control third-party risk, could cause disruptions in the operation of our business, which could materially adversely affect our transaction volumes, our revenues and/or our results of operations.Merchant defaults may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. As an issuer and merchant acquirer in the United States on the Discover Network, and as a holder of certain merchant agreements internationally for the Diners Club network, we may be contingently liable for certain disputed credit card sales transactions that arise between customers and merchants. If a dispute is resolved in the customer's favor, we will cause a credit or refund of the amount to be issued to the customer and charge back the transaction to the merchant or merchant acquirer. If we are unable to collect this amount from the merchant or merchant acquirer, we will bear the loss for the amount credited or refunded to the customer. Where the purchased product or service is not provided until some later date following the purchase, such as an airline ticket, the likelihood of potential liability increases. For the years ended November 30, 2011 and 2010, we had $1.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively, of losses related to merchant chargebacks.Our success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key employees. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate key officers and employees to manage our business well, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key officers and employees to manage our business. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. We believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. We may be subject to restrictions under future legislation or regulation limiting executive compensation. For example, the federal banking agencies issued guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations and the Reform Act imposes additional disclosures and restrictions on compensation. These restrictions could negatively impact our ability to compete with other companies in recruiting and retaining key personnel and could impact our ability to offer incentives that motivate our key personnel to perform. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel to manage our business well, our business could be materially adversely affected. Damage to our reputation could damage our business. Recently, financial services companies have been experiencing increased reputational risk as consumers protest and regulators scrutinize practices of such companies to maintain or increase business and revenues. Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and retaining customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may result in customer attrition and other harm to our business prospects. We may be unsuccessful in promoting and protecting our brands or protecting our other intellectual property, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. The Discover, PULSE and Diners Club brands have substantial economic and goodwill value. Our success is dependent on our ability to promote and protect these brands and our other intellectual property. Our ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon the external perception of our company and brands. Our brands are licensed for use to business partners and network participants, some of whom have contractual obligations to promote and develop our brands. The value of our brands and our overall business success may be adversely affected by actions of our business partners and network participants that diminish the perception of our brands. 34Table of ContentsWe may not be able to successfully protect our brands and our other intellectual property. If others misappropriate, use or otherwise diminish the value of our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, third parties may allege that our marketing, processes or systems may infringe their intellectual property rights. Given the potential risks and uncertainties of such claims, our business could be adversely affected by having to pay significant monetary damages or licensing fees and we may have to alter our business practices. Acquisitions or strategic investments that we pursue may not be successful and could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition or reduce our earnings. We may consider or undertake strategic acquisitions of, or material investments in, businesses, products, portfolios of loans or technologies, such as our recent private student loan acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or even if we do identify suitable candidates, they may be difficult to finance, expensive to fund and there is no guarantee that we can obtain any necessary regulatory approvals or complete the transactions on terms that are favorable to us. We generally must receive federal regulatory approvals before we can acquire a bank, bank holding company, deposits or certain assets or businesses. For additional information regarding bank regulatory limitations on acquisitions and investments, see "Business - Supervision and Regulation - Acquisitions and Investments." To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash, it would reduce our cash balances and regulatory capital, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition; similarly, if the purchase price is paid with our stock, it would be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, we may assume liabilities associated with a business acquisition or investment, including unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered at the time of the transaction, and the repayment of those liabilities may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate the personnel, operations, businesses, products, or technologies of an acquisition or investment. Integration may be particularly challenging if we enter into a line of business in which we have limited experience and the business operates in a difficult legal, regulatory or competitive environment. We may find that we do not have adequate operations or expertise to manage the new business. The integration of any acquisition or investment may divert management's time and resources from our core business, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers and strategic partners and disrupt our operations. Acquisitions and investments also may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel, customers or vendors. If we fail to integrate acquisitions or investments or realize the expected benefits, we may lose the return on these acquisitions or investments or incur additional transaction costs, and our business and financial condition may be harmed as a result.Laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance and practices, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with an array of banking and consumer lending laws and regulations in all of the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a bank holding company, we are subject to oversight, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve, including scrutiny of our risk management program; business strategy, earnings, capital and cash flow; anti-money laundering program; and examination of our non-bank businesses, including Discover Network, PULSE and Diners Club, and their relationships with our banking subsidiaries. Our banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation and regular examinations by the FDIC and the Delaware Bank Commissioner. We are also now subject to regulation and regular examination by the CFPB. To the extent that states enact requirements that differ from federal standards or state officials and courts adopt interpretations of federal consumer laws that differ from those adopted by the CFPB, we may face increased inquiries and enforcement actions from state attorney general offices. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, state banking regulators and the U.S. Department of Justice, as well as the SEC and New York Stock Exchange in our capacity as a public company. In addition, as our payments business has expanded globally through the acquisition of Diners Club, we are subject to government regulation in countries in which our networks operate or our cards are used, either directly or indirectly through regulation affecting Diners Club network licensees. From time to time, these regulations and regulatory agencies have required us to alter certain of our operating practices, and may require us to do the same in the future. Our ability to execute our business strategies through acquisitions or the introduction of new products or pricing may be impaired or delayed as a result of regulatory review or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals. Various federal and state regulators have broad discretion to impose restrictions and requirements on our company, subsidiaries and operations, including restrictions on capital actions such as increasing dividends. U.S. federal laws, such as the CARD Act, and state consumer protection laws and rules, limit the manner and terms on which we may offer and extend credit. We have had class action lawsuits filed against us alleging that we have violated various federal and state laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We are subject to capital, funding and liquidity requirements prescribed by statutes, regulations and orders, including initiatives under the Reform Act and Basel III that will require us to hold higher levels of capital to support our businesses. We are also subject to the requirements of accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, the SEC, banking regulators and our 35Table of Contentsindependent registered public accounting firm), who may add new requirements or change their interpretations on how standards should be applied, potentially materially impacting how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to FDIC increases in deposit insurance assessments or additional special assessments, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Reform Act has removed the statutory cap for the reserve ratio, leaving the FDIC free to set a cap in the future.In addition, regulation of the payments industry, including regulation applicable to us, merchant acquirers and our other business partners and customers, has expanded significantly in recent years. The Reform Act includes provisions governing debit and credit card network businesses. In addition, various U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and state legislatures have considered new legislation or regulations relating to restrictions regarding fees and interchange charged to merchants and acquirers, as well as additional charges for premium payment card transactions, and other restrictions related to identity theft, privacy, data security and marketing that could have a direct effect on us and our merchant and financial institution customers. In addition, the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in costly new compliance burdens being imposed on us and our customers and lead to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. We, our Diners Club licensees and Diners Club customers are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in many countries in which our cards are used. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could lead to adverse consequences such as financial, structural, reputational and operational penalties, including receivership, litigation exposure and fines. Legislative and regulatory changes could impact the profitability of our business activities, require us to limit or change our business practices, and expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). Significant changes in laws and regulations may have a more adverse effect on our results of operations than on the results of our larger, more diversified competitors. For additional recent legislative and regulatory developments that may affect our business, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Environment and Developments.” Current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could inhibit the number of payment cards issued and increase our costs. Regulatory pronouncements relating to consumer privacy, data use and security affect our business. In the United States, we are subject to a number of laws concerning consumer privacy and data use and security. We are subject to the Federal Trade Commission's and the banking regulators' information safeguard rules under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The rules require that financial institutions (including us) develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution's size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution's activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. The United States has experienced a heightened legislative and regulatory focus on privacy, data security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. In addition, most states have enacted security breach legislation requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of certain types of security breaches, and several other states are considering similar legislation. Regulation of privacy, data use and security may cause an increase in the costs to issue payment cards and/or may decrease the number of our cards that we or third parties issue. New regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could negatively impact our earnings. In addition, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business and reputation. Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses. Businesses in the credit card industry have historically been subject to significant legal actions, including class action lawsuits and commercial, shareholder and patent litigation. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory, statutory or punitive damages. For example, we currently have a class action lawsuit pending against us alleging violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, which prohibits contacting customers on their cellular telephones without their express consent, and provides for significant statutory damages ($500 for each violation and $1,500 for willful violations). While we have historically relied on our arbitration clause in agreements with customers to limit our exposure to consumer class action litigation, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in enforcing our arbitration clause in the future. Legal challenges to the enforceability of these clauses have led most card issuers and may cause us to discontinue their use. There are bills pending in Congress to directly or indirectly prohibit the use of pre-dispute arbitration clauses and the Reform Act authorized the CFPB to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. Further, we are involved in pending legal actions challenging our arbitration clause. In addition, we may be involved in various actions or proceedings brought by governmental regulatory agencies in the event of noncompliance with laws or regulations, which could harm our reputation, 36Table of Contentsrequire us to limit our business activities or subject us to significant fines, penalties or other requirements, resulting in increased expenses. See Note 21: Litigation and Regulatory Matters for information regarding current matters.Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K and materials we have filed or will file with the SEC (as well as information included in our other written or oral statements) contain or will contain certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would” and “could” are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. You should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this annual report on Form 10-K, including those described under “Risk Factors.” The statements are only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following: •changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt, and investor sentiment;•the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation, supervisory guidance, and regulatory and legal actions, including those related to financial regulatory reform, consumer financial services practices, and funding, capital and liquidity;•the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors;•our ability to manage our expenses;•our ability to successfully achieve full card acceptance across our networks and maintain relationships with network participants;•our ability to sustain and grow our private student loan portfolio;•our ability to manage our credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk;•the availability and cost of funding and capital;•access to deposit, securitization, equity, debt and credit markets;•the impact of rating agency actions;•the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments, other market fluctuations and other market indices;•losses in our investment portfolio;•limits on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock;•fraudulent activities or material security breaches of key systems;•our ability to increase or sustain Discover card usage or attract new customers;•our ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants;•the effect of political, economic and market conditions, geopolitical events and unforeseen or catastrophic events;•our ability to introduce new products or services;•our ability to manage our relationships with third-party vendors;•our ability to maintain current technology and integrate new and acquired systems;•our ability to collect amounts for disputed transactions from merchants and merchant acquirers;•our ability to attract and retain employees;•our ability to protect our reputation and our intellectual property;•difficulty obtaining regulatory approval for, financing, closing, transitioning, integrating or managing the expenses of acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products or technologies; and•new lawsuits, investigations or similar matters or unanticipated developments related to current matters.37Table of ContentsWe routinely evaluate and may pursue acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products, technologies, loan portfolios or deposits, which may involve payment in cash or our debt or equity securities.The foregoing review of important factors should not be construed as exclusive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on Form 10-K. These factors expressly qualify all subsequent oral and written forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf. Except for any ongoing obligations to disclose material information as required under U.S. federal securities laws, we do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we distribute this annual report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Item 1B