ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

        You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report and other filings that we
make from time to time with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations or liquidity. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could also be adversely affected by
additional factors that apply to all companies generally or by risks not currently known to us or that we currently view to be immaterial. We can provide no assurance and make no representation that
our risk mitigation efforts, although we believe they are reasonable, will be successful. 

        





Current economic conditions and other economic factors may adversely affect our financial
performance and other aspects of our business by negatively impacting our customers' disposable income or discretionary spending, increasing our costs of goods sold and selling, general and
administrative expenses, and adversely affecting our sales or profitability.  

        We believe many of our customers have fixed or low incomes and generally have limited discretionary spending dollars. Any factor that
could adversely affect that disposable income would decrease our customers' spending and could cause our customers to shift their spending to products other than those sold by us or to our less
profitable product choices, all of which could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover, greater markdowns on inventory, a change in the mix of products we sell, and a reduction in
profitability due to lower margins. Factors
that could reduce our customers' disposable income and over which we exercise no influence include but are not limited to adverse economic conditions such as increased or sustained high unemployment
or underemployment levels, inflation, increases in fuel or other energy costs and interest rates, lack of available credit, consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws,
concerns over government mandated participation in health insurance programs and increasing healthcare costs, and decreases in government subsidies such as unemployment and food assistance programs. 

        Many
of the factors identified above that affect disposable income, as well as commodity rates, transportation costs (including the costs of diesel fuel), costs of labor, insurance and
healthcare, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, lease costs, measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other
economic factors, also affect our cost of goods sold and our selling, general and administrative expenses, and may have other adverse consequences which we are unable to fully anticipate or control,
all of which may adversely affect our sales or profitability. We have limited or no ability to control many of these factors. 

        





Our plans depend significantly on strategies and initiatives designed to increase sales and improve
the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, and failure to achieve or sustain these plans could affect our performance adversely.  


        We have strategies and initiatives (such as those relating to merchandising, sourcing, shrink, private brand, distribution and
transportation, store operations, expense reduction, and real estate) in various stages of testing, evaluation, and implementation, upon which we expect to rely to continue to improve our results of
operations and financial condition and to achieve our financial plans. These initiatives are inherently risky and uncertain, even when tested successfully, in their application to our business in
general. It is possible that successful testing can result partially from resources and attention that cannot be duplicated in broader implementation, particularly in light of the diverse geographic
locations of our stores and the decentralized nature of our field management. General implementation also may be negatively affected by other risk factors described herein. Successful systemwide
implementation relies on consistency of training, stability of workforce, ease of execution, and the absence of offsetting factors that can influence results adversely. Failure to achieve successful
implementation of our 

10




 

initiatives
or the cost of these initiatives exceeding management's estimates could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

        The
success of our merchandising initiatives, particularly those with respect to non-consumable merchandise and store-specific products and allocations, depends in part upon our ability
to predict consistently and successfully the products that our customers will demand and to identify and timely respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences, expectations and
needs. If we are unable to select products that are attractive to customers, to obtain such products at costs that allow us to sell them at an acceptable profit, or to effectively market such
products, our sales, market share and profitability could be adversely affected. If our merchandising efforts in the non-consumables area or the higher margin areas within consumables are
unsuccessful, we could be further adversely affected by our inability to offset the lower margins associated with our consumables business. Further, our merchandising efforts in the consumables area,
including tobacco products, may not generate the net sales growth and increase customer traffic to the levels needed to offset the lower margins generated by sales of consumables and maintain our
targeted gross profit margins. 

        





If we cannot open, relocate or remodel stores profitably and on schedule, our planned future growth
will be impeded, which would adversely affect sales.  

        Our ability to open, relocate and remodel profitable stores is a key component of our planned future growth. Our ability to timely open
stores and to expand into additional market areas depends in part on the following factors: the availability of attractive store locations; the absence of entitlement process or occupancy delays; the
ability to negotiate acceptable lease and development terms; the ability to hire and train new personnel, especially store managers, in a cost effective manner; the ability to identify customer demand
in different geographic areas; general economic conditions; and the availability of capital funding for expansion. Many of these factors also affect our ability to successfully relocate stores, and
many of them are beyond our control. 

        Delays
or failures in opening new stores or completing relocations or remodels, or achieving lower than expected sales in new stores, could materially adversely affect our growth and/or
profitability. We also may not anticipate all of the challenges imposed by the expansion of our operations and, as a result, may not meet our targets for opening new stores, remodeling or relocating
stores or expanding profitably. 

        Some
new stores may be located in areas where we have little or no meaningful experience or brand recognition. Those areas may have different competitive and market conditions, consumer
tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, as well as higher cost of entry, which may cause our new stores to be initially less successful than stores in our existing
markets. 

        Many
new stores will be located in areas where we have existing stores. Although we have experience in these areas, increasing the number of locations in these markets may result in
inadvertent oversaturation and temporarily or permanently divert customers and sales from our existing stores, thereby adversely affecting our overall financial performance. 

        





Our profitability may be negatively affected by inventory shrinkage.  

        We are subject to the risk of inventory loss and theft. We experience significant inventory shrinkage and cannot be sure that
incidences of inventory loss and theft will decrease in the future or that the measures we are taking will effectively reduce the problem of inventory shrinkage. Although some level of inventory
shrinkage is an unavoidable cost of doing business, if we were to experience higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security or other costs to combat inventory theft, our results of
operations and financial condition could be affected adversely. 

11




 

        





We face intense competition that could limit our growth opportunities and adversely impact our
financial performance.  

        The retail business is highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation,
in-stock consistency, customer service, aggressive promotional activity, customers, and employees. We compete with retailers operating discount, mass merchandise, warehouse club, grocery, drug,
convenience, variety and other specialty stores. This competitive environment subjects us to the risk of adverse impact to our financial performance because of the lower prices, and thus the lower
margins, that may be required to maintain our competitive position. Also, companies like ours, due to customer demographics and other factors, may have limited ability to increase prices in response
to increased costs without losing competitive position. This limitation may adversely affect our margins and financial performance. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution,
marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to secure better arrangements with suppliers than we can. If we fail to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail
markets, it could adversely affect our financial performance. 

        Competition
for customers has intensified as competitors have moved into, or increased their presence in, our geographic markets and from the use of mobile and web-based technology that
facilitates online shopping and real-time product and price comparisons. We expect this competition to continue to increase. In addition, some of our large box competitors are or may be developing
small box formats, and increasing the pace at which they will open the small box formats, which will produce more competition. We remain vulnerable to the marketing power and high level of consumer
recognition of these larger competitors and to the risk that these competitors or others could venture into our
industry in a significant way. Further, consolidation within the discount retail industry could significantly alter the competitive dynamics of the retail marketplace. This consolidation may result in
competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration and other improvements in their competitive positions, as well as result in the
provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by these consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 


        





Our private brands may not maintain broad market acceptance and increase the risks we face.  

        The sale of private brand items is an important component of our future sales growth and gross profit rate enhancement plans. We have
invested in our development and procurement resources and marketing efforts relating to these private brand offerings. We believe that our success in maintaining broad market acceptance of our private
brands depends on many factors, including pricing, our costs, quality and customer perception. We may not achieve or maintain our expected sales for our private brands. The expansion of our private
brand offerings also subjects us to certain risks, such as: potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and
successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory
requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. An increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely
affect sales of our vendors' products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. Any failure to appropriately address some or all of these risks could have a
significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 


        





A significant disruption to our distribution network, to the capacity of our distribution centers or
to the timely receipt of inventory could adversely impact sales or increase our transportation costs, which would decrease our profits.  

        We rely on our distribution and transportation network to provide goods to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. Using
various modes of transportation, including ocean, rail, and truck, we 

12




 

and
our vendors move goods from vendor locations to our distribution centers. Deliveries to our stores occur from our distribution centers or directly from our vendors. Any disruption, unanticipated
or unusual expense or operational failure related to this process could affect store operations negatively. For example, delivery delays or increases in transportation costs (including through
increased fuel costs, increased carrier rates or driver wages as a result of driver shortages, a decrease in transportation capacity for overseas shipments, or work stoppages or slowdowns) could
significantly decrease our ability to make sales and earn profits. Labor shortages or work stoppages in the transportation industry or long-term disruptions to the national and international
transportation infrastructure that lead to delays or interruptions of deliveries or which would necessitate our securing alternative labor or shipping suppliers could also increase our costs or
otherwise negatively affect our business. 

        We
maintain a network of distribution facilities and have plans to build new facilities to support our growth objectives. Delays in opening distribution centers could adversely affect
our future financial performance by slowing store growth, which may in turn reduce revenue growth, or by increasing transportation costs. In addition, distribution-related construction or expansion
projects entail risks that could cause delays and cost overruns, such as: shortages of materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unforeseen construction, scheduling, engineering, environmental or
geological problems; weather interference; fires or other casualty losses; and unanticipated cost increases. The completion date and ultimate cost of these projects could differ significantly from
initial expectations due to construction-related or other reasons. We cannot guarantee that any project will be completed on time or within established budgets. 

        





Risks associated with or faced by our suppliers could adversely affect our financial performance.  

        The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers, and we are dependent on our vendors to
supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. In 2014, our largest and second largest suppliers each accounted for 7% of our purchases. We have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining
sufficient quantities of core merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would generally be able to obtain alternative sources without
experiencing a substantial disruption of our business. However, such alternative sources could increase our merchandise costs, result in a temporary reduction in store inventory levels, and reduce the
quality of our merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales. Additionally, if a supplier fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial
difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks that could lead to lost sales and damage to our reputation. 


        We
directly imported approximately 6% of our purchases (measured at cost) in 2014, but many of our domestic vendors directly import their products or components of their products.
Changes to the prices and flow of these goods for any reason, such as political unrest or acts of war, currency fluctuations,
disruptions in maritime lanes, port labor disputes, and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet
our standards, issues with labor practices of our suppliers or labor problems they may experience (such as strikes, stoppages or slowdowns, which could also increase labor costs during and following
the disruption), the availability and cost of raw materials to suppliers, increased import duties, merchandise quality or safety issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost,
transport security, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located or from which they import, are beyond our control and could adversely affect our
operations and profitability. While we are working to reduce our dependency on goods produced in China, a substantial amount of our imported merchandise still comes from China, and thus, a change in
the Chinese leadership, internal economic stimulus actions, or currency or other policies could negatively impact our merchandise costs. In addition, the United States' foreign trade policies, tariffs
and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of 

13




 

certain
types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade and port labor agreements are beyond our control. These and other
factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our business and financial performance. As we increase our imports of merchandise from foreign vendors, the risks
associated with foreign imports will increase, and we may be exposed to additional risks as we increase imports of goods produced in countries other than China. 


        





Product liability and food safety claims could adversely affect our business, reputation and
financial performance.  

        Despite our best efforts to ensure the quality, safety and freshness of the products that we sell in all of our stores, we may be
subject to product liability claims from customers or actions required or penalties assessed by government agencies relating to products, including but not limited to food products that are recalled,
defective or otherwise alleged to be harmful. Such claims may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects,
substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling and transportation phases. All of our vendors and their products must comply with applicable product
and food safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from our
suppliers. However, if we do not have adequate contractual indemnification or insurance available, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. Our ability to obtain indemnification from foreign suppliers may be hindered by the manufacturers' lack of understanding of U.S. product liability or other laws, which may result in our
having to respond to claims or complaints from customers as if we were the manufacturer. Even with adequate insurance and indemnification, such claims could significantly damage our reputation and
consumer confidence in our products. Our litigation expenses
could increase as well, which also could have a materially negative impact on our results of operations even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued. 

        





We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements. A significant change in, or
noncompliance with, these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.  

        Our business is subject to numerous and increasing federal, state and local laws and regulations. We routinely incur significant costs
in complying with these regulations. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are increasing due to expanding and additional legal and
regulatory requirements and increased enforcement efforts. New laws or regulations, particularly those dealing with healthcare reform, product safety, food safety, information security and privacy,
and labor and employment, among others, or changes in existing laws and regulations, particularly those governing the sale of products, may result in significant added expenses or may require
extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement and/or could materially increase our cost of doing business. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations
or untimely or incomplete execution of a required product recall, can result in the imposition of penalties, including loss of licenses or significant fines or monetary penalties, class action
litigation or other litigation, in addition to reputational damage. Additionally, changes in tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on
examination could adversely affect our effective tax rate. 

        





Litigation may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

        Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, government agencies
and others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The number of employment-related class actions 

14




 

filed
each year has continued to increase, and recent changes and proposed changes in Federal and state laws, regulations and agency guidance may cause claims to rise even more. The outcome of
litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and intellectual property claims, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very
large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, certain of these lawsuits, if
decided adversely to
us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial statements as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operations are required. The cost
to defend future litigation may be significant. There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether
the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Note 8 to the
consolidated financial statements for further details regarding certain of these pending matters. 

        





Natural disasters (whether or not caused by climate change), unusual weather conditions, pandemic
outbreaks, terrorist acts, and global political events could disrupt business and result in lower sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance.  

        The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods, tornadoes and earthquakes, unusual weather
conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, such as civil unrest in countries in which our suppliers are located, or similar disruptions could adversely
affect our business and financial performance. Uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected
markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. To the extent these events result in the closure of one or more of our distribution centers, a significant number of stores, or our
corporate headquarters or impact one or more of our key suppliers, our operations and financial performance could be materially adversely affected through an inability to make deliveries or provide
other support functions to our stores and through lost sales. In addition, these events could result in increases in fuel (or other energy) prices or a fuel shortage, delays in opening new stores, the
temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some domestic and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the
transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores, the inability of customers to reach or have transportation to our stores directly affected by
such events, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and disruption of our utility services or to our information systems. These events also can have indirect
consequences such as increases in the costs of insurance if they result in significant loss of property or other insurable damage. 

        





Material damage or interruptions to our information systems as a result of external factors,
staffing shortages or challenges or difficulties in maintaining or updating our existing technology or developing or implementing new technology could have a material adverse effect on our business or
results of operations.  

        We depend on a variety of information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business and are continually improving
our information processes and computer systems to better run our business. These technology initiatives may not deliver desired results or may do so on a delayed schedule. Additionally, such systems
are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cybersecurity breaches, natural disasters and human error. Damage or interruption
to these systems
may require a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim, may experience loss or corruption of critical data and may receive
negative publicity, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 

15




 

        We
also rely heavily on our information technology staff. Failure to meet these staffing needs may negatively affect our ability to fulfill our technology initiatives while continuing to
provide maintenance on existing systems. We rely on certain vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. The software programs
supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and
software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. In addition, costs and potential
problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the
efficiency of our operations. 

        





Failure to attract, train and retain qualified employees while controlling labor costs, as well as
other labor issues, could adversely affect our financial performance.  

        Our future growth and performance and positive customer experience depends on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate
qualified employees, many of whom are in positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling our labor costs, is subject to many external
factors, including competition for and availability of qualified personnel in a given market, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage laws, health and other
insurance costs, and changes in employment and labor laws (including changes in the process for our employees to join a union) or other workplace regulations (including changes in "entitlement"
programs such as health insurance and paid leave programs). If we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified employees, our operations, customer service levels and support
functions could suffer. To the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. In addition, the fees and design changes required
by comprehensive healthcare reform legislation will likely continue to increase our healthcare costs as the provisions of the legislation are being phased in over time and individuals determine how to
respond. Our ability to pass along labor costs to our customers is constrained by our everyday low price model. 


        





Our success depends on our executive officers and other key personnel. If we lose key personnel or
are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our business may be harmed.  

        Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and other key
personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have an adverse effect on our operations. There can be no assurance that our executive succession planning,
retention or hiring efforts will be successful. Competition for skilled and experienced management personnel is intense, and our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain
qualified personnel, and a failure to attract and retain new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance policies with
respect to our executive officers or key personnel. 

        We
have benefitted substantially from the leadership and performance of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard W. Dreiling. As we have previously disclosed,
Mr. Dreiling will retire on January 29, 2016. We are currently conducting a search for a new chief executive. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience a disruption in
our executive management in connection with Mr. Dreiling's retirement or our transition to a new chief executive, which could adversely affect our strategic planning and execution. 


        





Our cash flows from operations may be negatively affected if we are not successful in managing our
inventory balances.  

        Our inventory balance represented approximately 49% of our total assets exclusive of goodwill and other intangible assets as of
January 30, 2015. Efficient inventory management is a key component of 

16




 

our
business success and profitability. To be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product mix to meet our customers' demands without allowing those levels to
increase to such an extent that the costs to store and hold the goods unduly impacts our financial results or that subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. If our buying decisions do
not accurately predict customer trends, we inappropriately price products or our expectations about customer spending levels are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns to dispose of
the excess inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. We continue to focus on ways to reduce these risks, but we cannot make assurances that we will be successful in our
inventory
management. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances, our cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. 

        





Because our business is seasonal to a certain extent, with the highest volume of net sales during
the fourth quarter, adverse events during the fourth quarter could materially affect our financial statements as a whole.  

        We generally recognize our highest volume of net sales during the Christmas selling season, which occurs in the fourth quarter of our
fiscal year. In anticipation of this holiday, we purchase substantial amounts of seasonal inventory. Adverse events, such as deteriorating economic conditions, high unemployment, high gas prices,
public transportation disruptions, or unusual or unanticipated adverse weather could result in lower-than-planned sales during the holiday season. An excess of seasonal merchandise inventory could
result if our net sales during the Christmas selling season fall below seasonal norms or expectations. If our fourth quarter sales results were substantially below expectations, our financial
performance and operating results could be adversely affected by unanticipated markdowns, especially in seasonal merchandise. 

        





Our current insurance program may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial
performance.  

        Our insurance coverage reflects deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe are
prudent based on the dispersion of our operations. However, there are types of losses we may incur but against which we cannot be insured or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure,
such as losses due to acts of war, employee and certain other crime, wage and hour and other employment-related claims, including class actions, and some natural disasters. If we incur these losses
and they are material, our business could suffer. Certain material events may result in sizable losses for the insurance industry and adversely impact the availability of adequate insurance coverage
or result in excessive premium increases. To offset negative insurance market trends, we may elect to self-insure, accept higher deductibles or reduce the amount of coverage in response to these
market changes. In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation, automobile liability, general liability and group health insurance programs.
Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these losses, including expected increases in medical and indemnity
costs, could result in materially different expenses than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we
continue to maintain property insurance for catastrophic events at our store support center and distribution centers, we are effectively self-insured for other property losses. If we experience a
greater number of these losses than we anticipate, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 

17




 

        





Any failure to maintain the security of information we hold relating to our customers, employees and
vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks or otherwise, could expose us to litigation, government enforcement actions and costly response measures, and could materially disrupt our
operations and harm our reputation.  

        In connection with sales, we transmit confidential credit and debit card information. We also have access to, collect or maintain
certain private or confidential information regarding our customers, employees and vendors, as well as our business. We have procedures and technology in place to safeguard such data and information.
To our knowledge, computer hackers have not gained significant access to the information stored in, or otherwise gained access to, our information and technology systems. However, cyberattacks are
rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated. Additionally, under certain circumstances, we may share information with vendors that assist us in conducting our business, as required by
law, or with the permission of the individual. While we have implemented procedures to protect our information and require appropriate controls of our vendors, it is possible that computer hackers and
others might compromise our security measures or those of our technology and other vendors in the future and obtain the personal information of our customers, employees and vendors that we hold or our
business information. 

        Because
we accept debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards ("PCI DSS"), issued by the Payment Card Industry Security
Standards Council. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing, and transmission of cardholder data.
Complying with PCI DSS standards and implementing related procedures, technology and information security measures requires significant resources and ongoing attention. Even if we comply with PCI DSS
standards, we may be vulnerable to, and unable to detect and appropriately respond to, data security breaches and data loss, including cyber-security attacks or other breach of cardholder data. 

        A
security breach of any kind, which could be undetected for a period of time, or any failure by us to comply with the applicable privacy and information security laws, regulations and
standards could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, government enforcement actions and costly response measures (including, for example, credit monitoring services for affected customers, as
well as further upgrades to our security measures) which may not be covered by our insurance policies, and could materially disrupt our operations. Any resulting negative media attention and publicity
could significantly harm our reputation which could cause us to lose market share as a result of customers discontinuing the use of debit or credit cards in our stores or not shopping in our stores
altogether and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. 

        





Deterioration in market conditions or changes in our credit profile could adversely affect our
ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy or other opportunities or to react to changes in the economy or our industry.  

        We obtain and manage liquidity from the positive cash flow we generate from our operating activities and our access to capital markets,
including our credit facility. Changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing, make it
more difficult to obtain favorable terms, or restrict our access to this source of future liquidity. There is no assurance that our ability to obtain additional financing through the capital markets
will not be adversely impacted by economic conditions. Our debt securities currently have an investment grade rating, and a downgrade of this rating likely would make it more difficult or expensive
for us to obtain additional financing and would increase the cost of borrowing under our credit facility, which could adversely affect our cash flow and limit our growth strategy or other
opportunities or our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. 

18




 

        At
January 30, 2015, we had total outstanding debt (including the current portion of long-term obligations) of approximately $2.74 billion. We also had an additional
$821.5 million available for borrowing under our unsecured revolving credit facility. This level of debt could have important negative consequences to our business,
including:



• requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our
indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities, repurchase shares of our common stock, declare
dividends on our common stock or otherwise manage our debt and capital levels; 
• making it more difficult for us to raise additional capital to fund our operations and pursue our growth strategy, including by
limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements; and 
• placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged and may be better able to use their cash flow to fund
competitive responses to changing industry, market or economic conditions. 


        





Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business.  


        Our credit facilities and the indenture governing our notes contain various covenants that could limit our ability to engage in
specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:



• incur indebtedness of subsidiaries; 
• create certain liens or encumbrances; 
• merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and  
• make any material change in the nature of our business. 


        We
are also subject to specified financial ratio covenants under our credit facilities. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we
cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and other covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreement governing such indebtedness and inability to
borrow additional amounts under
our revolving credit facility. Upon our failure to maintain compliance with these covenants, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and
terminate all commitments to extend further credit thereunder. If the lenders under such indebtedness accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot make assurances that we will have sufficient
assets to repay those borrowings, as well as our other indebtedness, including our outstanding notes. 

        





New accounting guidance or changes in the interpretation or application of existing accounting
guidance could adversely affect our financial performance.  

        The implementation of proposed new accounting standards may require extensive systems, internal process and other changes that could
increase our operating costs, and may also result in changes to our financial statements. In particular, the implementation of expected future accounting standards related to leases, as currently
being contemplated by the convergence project between the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"), as well as the possible adoption of
international financial reporting standards by U.S. registrants, could require us to make significant changes to our lease management, fixed asset, and other accounting systems, and, if implemented,
are likely to result in significant changes to our financial statements. 

19




 

        U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are
relevant to our business involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates
or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. The outcome of such changes could include litigation or regulatory actions which could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

<A
NAME="dc73201_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B