ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

        You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report and other filings that we
make from time to time with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations or liquidity. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could also be adversely affected by
additional factors that apply to all companies generally or by risks not currently known to us or that we currently view to be immaterial. We can provide no assurance and make no representation that
our mitigation efforts, although we believe they are reasonable, will be successful. 

        
Current economic conditions and other economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance and other aspects of our business by negatively impacting our
customer's disposable income or discretionary spending, increasing our costs of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses, and adversely affecting our sales or profitability.  

        We believe many of our customers are on fixed or low incomes and generally have limited discretionary spending dollars. Any factor that
could adversely affect that disposable income would decrease our customer's spending and could cause our customers to shift their spending to products other than those sold by us or to products sold
by us that are less profitable than other product choices, all of which could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover, greater markdowns on inventory, and a reduction in
profitability due to lower margins. Factors that could reduce our customers' disposable income include but are not limited to a further slowdown in the
economy, a delayed economic recovery, or other economic conditions such as increased or sustained high unemployment or underemployment levels, inflation, increases in fuel or other energy costs and
interest rates, lack of available credit, consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws. 

        Many
of the factors identified above that affect disposable income, as well as commodity rates, transportation costs (including the costs of diesel fuel), costs of labor, insurance and
healthcare, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, lease costs, measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other
economic factors, also affect our cost of goods sold and our selling, general and administrative expenses, which may adversely affect our sales or profitability. We have limited or no ability to
control many of these factors. We experienced escalation of product costs in 2011 as a result of increases in the costs of certain commodities (including cotton, sugar, coffee, groundnuts, resin), and
increasing diesel fuel costs. These costs generally stabilized in 2012. We will be diligent in our efforts to keep product costs as low as possible in the face of these increases while still working
to optimize gross profit and meet the needs of our customers. 

        In
addition, many of the factors discussed above, along with current global economic conditions and uncertainties, the potential for additional failures or realignments of financial
institutions, and the related impact on available credit may affect us and our suppliers and other business partners, landlords and service providers in an adverse manner including, but not limited
to, reducing access to liquid funds or credit, increasing the cost of credit, limiting our ability to manage interest rate risk, increasing the risk of bankruptcy of our suppliers, landlords or
counterparties to, or other financial institutions involved in, our credit facilities and our derivative and other contracts, increasing the cost of goods to us, and other adverse consequences which
we are unable to fully anticipate or control. 

9




 

        
Our plans depend significantly on initiatives designed to increase sales and improve the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, and failure to achieve or
sustain these plans could affect our performance adversely.  

        We have initiatives (such as those relating to merchandising, sourcing, shrink, private brand, store operations, selling, general and
administrative expense reduction, and real estate) in various stages of testing, evaluation, and implementation, upon which we expect to rely to continue to improve our results of operations and
financial condition and to achieve our financial plans. These initiatives are inherently risky and uncertain, even when tested successfully, in their application to our business in general. It is
possible that successful testing can result partially from resources and attention that cannot be duplicated in broader implementation, particularly in light of the diverse geographic locations of our
stores and the fact that our field management is so
decentralized. General implementation also may be negatively affected by other risk factors described herein. Successful systemwide implementation relies on consistency of training, stability of
workforce, ease of execution, and the absence of offsetting factors that can influence results adversely. Failure to achieve successful implementation of our initiatives or the cost of these
initiatives exceeding management's estimates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 


        In
addition, the success of our merchandising initiatives, particularly those with respect to non-consumable merchandise and store-specific products and allocations, depends
in part upon our ability to predict consistently and successfully the products our customers will demand and to identify and timely respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences,
expectations and needs. If we are unable to select products that are attractive to customers, to obtain such products at costs that allow us to sell them at a profit, or to effectively market such
products, our sales, market share and profitability could be adversely affected. If our merchandising efforts in the non-consumables area are unsuccessful, we could be further adversely
affected by our inability to offset the lower margins associated with our consumables business. 

        
We face intense competition that could limit our growth opportunities and adversely impact our financial performance.  

        The retail business is highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation,
in-stock consistency, customer service, aggressive promotional activity, customers, and employees. We compete with retailers operating discount, mass merchandise, outlet, warehouse club,
grocery, drug, convenience, variety and other specialty stores. This competitive environment subjects us to the risk of adverse impact to our financial performance because of the lower prices, and
thus the lower margins, required to maintain our competitive position. Also, companies like ours, due to customer demographics and other factors, may have limited ability to increase prices in
response to increased costs without losing competitive position. This limitation may adversely affect our margins and financial performance. Certain of our competitors have greater financial,
distribution, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to secure better arrangements with suppliers than we can. If we fail to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes
in the retail markets, it could adversely affect our financial performance. 

        Competition
for customers has intensified in recent years as competitors have moved into, or increased their presence in, our geographic markets. In addition, some of our large box
competitors are or may be developing small box formats which may produce more competition. We remain vulnerable to the marketing power and high level of consumer recognition of these larger
competitors and to the risk that these competitors or others could venture into our industry in a significant way. Generally, we expect a continued increase in competition. 

10




 

        
Our private brands may not maintain broad market acceptance and increase the risks we face.  

        We have substantially increased the number of our private brand items, and the program is a sizable part of our future growth plans. We
believe that our success in maintaining broad market acceptance of our private brands depends on many factors, including pricing, our costs, quality and customer perception. We may not achieve or
maintain our expected sales for our private brands. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 


        
A significant disruption to our distribution network or to the timely receipt of inventory could adversely impact sales or increase our transportation costs, which would
decrease our profits.  

        We rely on our distribution and transportation network to provide goods to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner
through deliveries to our distribution centers from vendors and then from the distribution centers or direct ship vendors to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea
and truck. Any disruption, unanticipated expense or operational failure related to this process could affect store operations negatively. For example, unexpected delivery delays or increases in
transportation costs (including through increased fuel costs, a decrease in transportation capacity for overseas shipments, or work stoppages or slowdowns) could significantly decrease our ability to
make sales and earn profits. Labor shortages or work stoppages in the transportation industry or long-term disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure that
lead to delays or interruptions of deliveries could also negatively affect our business. 

        We
maintain a network of distribution facilities and have plans to build new facilities to support our growth objectives. Delays in opening distribution centers could adversely affect
our future operations by slowing store growth, which may in turn reduce revenue growth. In addition, distribution-related construction or expansion projects entail risks which could cause delays and
cost overruns, such as: shortages of materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unforeseen construction, scheduling, engineering, environmental or geological problems; weather interference; fires or
other casualty losses; and unanticipated cost increases. The completion date and ultimate cost of these projects could differ significantly from initial expectations due to construction-related or
other reasons. We cannot guarantee that any project will be completed on time or within established budgets. 

        
Rising fuel costs could materially adversely affect our business.  

        Fuel prices are significantly influenced by international, political and economic circumstances. Increases in the price of fuel pose a
challenge to our continued priority of optimizing our gross profit rate. Sustained inflated prices or further price increases for any reason, including fuel supply shortages or unusual price
volatility, could materially increase our transportation costs, adversely affecting our gross profit and results of operations. In addition, competitive pressures in our industry may inhibit our
ability to reflect these increased costs in the prices of our products. We will diligently attempt to keep product costs as low as possible as we face these increases while still working to optimize
gross profit and meet our customers' needs. 

        
Risks associated with or faced by the domestic and foreign suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance.  


        The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. In 2012, our largest supplier accounted
for 8% of our purchases, and our next largest supplier accounted for approximately 7% of such purchases. We have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of core merchandise
and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would generally be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing a substantial disruption of our
business. However, such alternative sources could increase our 

11




 

merchandise
costs and reduce the quality of our merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales. 

        We
directly imported approximately 7% of our purchases (measured at cost) in 2012, but many of our domestic vendors directly import their products or components of their products.
Changes to the prices and flow of these goods for any reason, such as political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of
suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our standards, issues with labor practices of our suppliers or labor problems they may experience (such as strikes), the availability and cost of raw materials to
suppliers, merchandise quality or safety issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are
located or from which they import, are beyond our control and could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Because a substantial amount of our imported merchandise comes from China, a
change in the Chinese currency or other policies could
negatively impact our merchandise costs. In addition, the United States' foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the
limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. Disruptions
due to labor stoppages, strikes or slowdowns, or other disruptions involving our vendors or the transportation and handling industries also may negatively affect our ability to receive merchandise and
thus may negatively affect sales. Prolonged disruptions could also materially increase our labor costs both during and following the disruption. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our
access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. As we increase our imports of merchandise from foreign vendors, the risks associated with foreign imports will increase. 

        
Product liability and food safety claims could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial performance.  

        Despite our best efforts to ensure the quality and safety of the products we sell, we may be subject to product liability claims from
customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products, including food products that are recalled, defective or otherwise alleged to be harmful. Such claims may result from tampering by
unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage,
handling and transportation phases. All of our vendors and their products must comply with applicable product and food safety laws. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage
from our suppliers. However, if we do not have adequate contractual indemnification and/or insurance available, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations. Our ability to obtain indemnification from foreign suppliers may be hindered by the manufacturers' lack of understanding of U.S. product liability or other laws, which may
make it more likely that we be required to respond to claims or complaints from customers as if we were the manufacturer of the products. Even with adequate insurance and indemnification, such claims
could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products. Our litigation expenses could increase as well, which also could have a materially negative impact on our results of
operations even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued. 


        
We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements. A significant change in, or noncompliance with, these regulations could have a material adverse
effect on our financial performance.  

        Our business is subject to numerous and increasing federal, state and local laws and regulations. We routinely incur costs in complying
with these regulations. New laws or regulations, particularly those dealing with healthcare reform, product safety, and labor and employment, among others, or changes in existing laws and regulations,
particularly those governing the sale of products, may result in significant 

12




 

added
expenses or may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement and/or could materially increase our cost of doing business. Untimely compliance or
noncompliance with applicable regulations or untimely or incomplete execution of a required product recall can result in the imposition of penalties, including loss of licenses or significant fines or
monetary penalties, in addition to reputational damage. 

        
Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

        Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, government agencies
and others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The number of employment-related class actions filed each year has continued to
increase, and recent changes and proposed changes in Federal and state laws may cause claims to rise even more. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and
intellectual property claims, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential
loss relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability
material to our financial statements as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operations are required. The cost to defend future litigation may be
significant. There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether
we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for
further details regarding certain of these pending matters. 

        
If we cannot open, relocate or remodel stores profitably and on schedule, our planned future growth will be impeded, which would adversely affect sales.  

        Our ability to open, relocate and remodel profitable stores is a key component of our planned future growth. Our ability to timely open
stores and to expand into additional market areas depends in part on the following factors: the availability of attractive store locations; the absence of entitlement process or occupancy delays; the
ability to negotiate acceptable lease and development terms; the ability to hire and train new personnel, especially store managers, in a cost effective manner; the ability to identify customer demand
in different geographic areas; general economic conditions; and the availability of capital funding for expansion. Many of these factors also affect our ability to successfully relocate stores, and
many of them are beyond our control. Tighter lending practices also may make financing more challenging for our real estate developers which could impact the timing of store openings under our
build-to-suit program. 

        Delays
or failures in opening new stores or completing relocations or remodels, or achieving lower than expected sales in new stores, could materially adversely affect our growth and/or
profitability. We also may not anticipate all of the challenges imposed by the expansion of our operations and, as a result, may not meet our targets for opening new stores, remodeling or relocating
stores or expanding profitably. 

        Some
of our new stores may be located in areas where we have little or no meaningful experience or brand recognition. Those markets may have different competitive and market conditions,
consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, as well as higher cost of entry, which may cause our new stores to be initially less successful than stores in our
existing markets. In addition, our alternative format stores, such as our Dollar General Market and, to a lesser degree our Dollar General Plus stores, have significantly higher capital costs than our
traditional Dollar General stores, and, as a result, may increase our financial risk if they do not perform as expected. 

13




 

        Many
of our new stores will be located in areas where we have existing units. Although we have experience in these markets, increasing the number of locations in these markets may result
in inadvertent over-saturation and temporarily or permanently divert customers and sales from our existing stores, thereby adversely affecting our overall financial performance. 

        
Natural disasters (whether or not caused by climate change), unusual weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts, and global political events could cause
permanent or temporary distribution center or store closures, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory, or decrease customer traffic, all of which could result in lost sales and
otherwise adversely affect our financial performance.  

        The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods and earthquakes, unusual weather conditions,
pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, such as civil unrest in countries in which our suppliers are located, or similar disruptions could adversely affect our
operations and financial performance. To the extent these events result in the closure of one or more of our distribution centers, a significant number of stores, or our corporate headquarters or
impact one or more of our key suppliers, our operations and financial performance could be materially adversely affected through an inability to make deliveries or provide other support functions to
our stores and through lost sales. In addition, these events could result in increases in fuel (or other energy) prices or a fuel shortage, delays in opening new stores, the temporary lack of an
adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some domestic and overseas suppliers, the temporary
disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and
disruption of our utility services or to our information systems. These events also can have indirect consequences such as increases in the costs of insurance if they result in significant loss of
property or other insurable damage. 

        
Material damage or interruptions to our information systems as a result of external factors, staffing shortages and unanticipated challenges or difficulties in updating our
existing technology or developing or implementing new technology could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  


        We depend on a variety of information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business. Such systems are subject to
damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and natural disasters. Damage or interruption to these systems may require a
significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruptions may have a material adverse effect on our business or
results of operations. 

        We
also rely heavily on our information technology staff. Failure to meet these staffing needs may negatively affect our ability to fulfill our technology initiatives while continuing to
provide maintenance on existing systems. We rely on certain vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. The software programs
supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and
software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. In addition, costs and potential
problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the
efficiency of our operations. 

14




 

        
Failure to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly field, store and distribution center managers, while controlling labor costs, as well as other labor issues,
could adversely affect our financial performance.  

        Our future growth and performance depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, many of whom are in
positions with historically high rates of
turnover such as field managers and distribution center managers. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling our labor costs, is subject to many external factors, including competition for
and availability of qualified personnel in a given market, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage laws, health and other insurance costs, and changes in
employment and labor laws (including changes in the process for our employees to join a union) or other workplace regulation (including changes in "entitlement" programs such as health insurance and
paid leave programs). To the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. In addition, we are evaluating the potential future
impact of recently enacted comprehensive healthcare reform legislation, which will likely cause our healthcare costs to increase. While the significant costs of the healthcare reform legislation will
occur after 2013, if at all, due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare costs structure could have a significant negative effect on our business. Our
ability to pass along labor costs to our customers is constrained by our low price model. 

        
Our profitability may be negatively affected by inventory shrinkage.  

        We are subject to the risk of inventory loss and theft. We experience significant inventory shrinkage, and we cannot assure you that
incidences of inventory loss and theft will decrease in the future or that the measures we are taking will effectively reduce the problem of inventory shrinkage. Although some level of inventory
shrinkage is an unavoidable cost of doing business, if we were to experience higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security costs to combat inventory theft, our financial condition
could be affected adversely. 

        
Our cash flows from operations may be negatively affected if we are not successful in managing our inventory balances.  

        Our inventory balance represented approximately 50% of our total assets exclusive of goodwill and other intangible assets as of
February 1, 2013. Efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success and profitability. To be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to meet our
customers' demands without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs to store and hold the goods unduly impacts our financial results. If our buying decisions do not
accurately predict customer trends or purchasing actions, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns to dispose of the excess inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. We
continue to focus on ways to reduce these risks, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our inventory management. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances, our cash
flows from operations may be negatively affected. 

        
Because our business is seasonal to a certain extent, with the highest volume of net sales during the fourth quarter, adverse events during the fourth quarter could
materially affect our financial statements as a whole.  

        We generally recognize our highest volume of net sales during the Christmas selling season, which occurs in the fourth quarter of our
fiscal year. In anticipation of this holiday, we purchase substantial amounts of seasonal inventory and hire many temporary employees. An excess of seasonal merchandise inventory could result if our
net sales during the Christmas selling season were to fall below either seasonal norms or expectations. If our fourth quarter sales results were substantially below expectations, our financial
performance and operating results could be adversely affected by unanticipated 

15




 

markdowns,
especially in seasonal merchandise. Lower than anticipated sales in the Christmas selling season would also negatively affect our ability to absorb the increased seasonal labor costs. 


        
Our current insurance program may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial performance.  

        Our insurance coverage reflects deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we
believe are prudent based on the dispersion of our operations. However, there are types of losses we may incur but against which we cannot be insured or which we believe are not economically
reasonable to insure, such as losses due to acts of war, employee and certain other crime, some employment-related or other class actions, and some natural disasters. If we incur these losses and they
are material, our business could suffer. Certain material events may result in sizable losses for the insurance industry and adversely impact the availability of adequate insurance coverage or result
in excessive premium increases. To offset negative insurance market trends, we may elect to self-insure, accept higher deductibles or reduce the amount of coverage in response to these
market changes. In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation, automobile liability, general liability and group health insurance
programs. Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these losses, including expected increases in medical and
indemnity costs, could result in materially different expenses than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In
addition, we are evaluating the potential future impact of the comprehensive healthcare reform legislation, which may cause our healthcare costs to increase. Although we continue to maintain property
insurance for catastrophic events at our store support center and distribution centers, we are effectively self-insured for other property losses.
If we experience a greater number of these losses than we anticipate, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 

        
If we fail to protect our brand name, competitors may adopt tradenames that dilute the value of our brand name.  

        We may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our trademarks in each jurisdiction in which we do business. Also, we may not always
be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors, or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of our
brand recognition, and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. 

        
Our success depends on our executive officers and other key personnel. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our business may be
harmed.  

        Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and other key
personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, particularly Richard W. Dreiling, our Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future
success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and a failure to attract and retain new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. We do not
currently maintain key person life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers or key personnel. 

16




 

        
Any failure to maintain the security of information relating to our customers, employees and vendors that we may hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks or
otherwise, could expose us to litigation, government enforcement actions and costly response measures, and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation.  

        In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit and debit card information. We also have access to, collect or
maintain private or confidential information regarding our customers, employees and vendors, as well as our business. We have procedures and technology in place to safeguard such data and information.
As a result of those procedures, to our
knowledge computer hackers have been unable to gain access to the information stored in our information systems. However, cyberattacks are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated. It
is possible that computer hackers and others might compromise our security measures or those of our technology vendors in the future and obtain the personal information of our customers, employees and
vendors that we hold or our business information. A security breach of any kind could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, government enforcement actions and costly response measures, and
could seriously disrupt our operations. Any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation which could cause us to lose market share and have an adverse effect on our financial
results. 

        
We have substantial debt that must be repaid or refinanced at or prior to applicable maturity dates which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to
fund our operations and limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy or other opportunities or to react to changes in the economy or our industry.  

        At February 1, 2013, we had total outstanding debt (including the current portion of long-term obligations) of
$2.772 billion, including a $1.964 billion senior secured term loan facility, of which, $1.084 billion matures on July 6, 2014 and $879.7 million matures on
July 6, 2017, $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior notes due 2017, and borrowings of $286.5 million under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit
facility. We also had an additional $873.4 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility which is scheduled to mature on July 6, 2014. We do not believe that we
will experience difficulty in refinancing this debt prior to applicable maturity dates. However, if we were to experience difficulty repaying or refinancing this debt prior to maturity, this, and the
level of debt itself, could have important negative consequences to our business, including:



•increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions because our debt payment obligations may limit
our ability to use our cash to respond to or defend against changes in the industry or the economy; 
•requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest
on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or repurchase shares of our common stock;  
•limiting our ability to pursue our growth strategy; 
•placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged and may be better able to use their cash
flow to fund competitive responses to changing industry, market or economic conditions; 
•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and 
•increasing the difficulty of our ability to make payments on our outstanding debt. 

17




 

        
Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected by volatility in the capital markets.  


        We obtain and manage liquidity from the positive cash flow we generate from our operating activities and our access to capital markets,
including our credit facilities. There is no assurance that our ability to obtain additional financing through the capital markets will not be adversely impacted by economic conditions. Tightening in
the credit markets, or low liquidity and volatility in the capital markets could result in diminished availability of credit and higher cost of borrowing, making it more difficult to obtain additional
financing on terms favorable to us. 

        
Our variable rate debt exposes us to interest rate risk which could adversely affect our cash flow.  

        The borrowings under the term loan facility and the senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility comprise our credit facilities
and bear interest at variable rates. Other debt we incur also could be variable rate debt. If market interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which
could adversely affect our cash flow. While we have entered and may in the future enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, any such agreements may not offer complete
protection from this risk. 

        
Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business.  

        Our credit facilities and the indenture governing our notes contain various covenants that could limit our ability to engage in
specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:



•incur additional indebtedness, issue disqualified stock or issue certain preferred stock;  
•pay dividends and make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments;  
•create certain liens or encumbrances; 
•sell assets; 
•enter into transactions with our affiliates; 
•allow payments to us by our restricted subsidiaries; 
•merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and  
•designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. 


        A
breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreement governing such indebtedness. Upon our failure to maintain compliance with these covenants, the lenders
could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit thereunder. If the lenders under such indebtedness
accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay those borrowings, as well as our other indebtedness, including our outstanding notes. We have
pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our credit facilities. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our credit facilities could proceed against the
collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Additional borrowings under the senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility will, if excess availability under that facility is less
than a certain amount, be subject to the satisfaction of a specified financial ratio. Accordingly, our ability to access the full availability under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit
facility may be constrained. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet this ratio, if applicable, and other
covenants. 

18




 

        
New accounting guidance or changes in the interpretation or application of existing accounting guidance could adversely affect our financial performance.  


        The implementation of proposed new accounting standards may require extensive systems, internal process and other changes that could
increase our operating costs, and may also result in changes to our financial statements. In particular, the implementation of expected future accounting standards related to leases, as currently
being contemplated by the convergence project between the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"), as well as the possible adoption of
international financial reporting standards by U.S. registrants, could require us to make significant changes to our lease management, fixed asset, and other accounting systems, and in all likelihood
would result in changes to our financial statements. 

        U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are
relevant to our business involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates
or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. The outcome of such changes could include litigation or regulatory actions which could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

        
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. ("KKR"), certain affiliates of Goldman, Sachs & Co. (the "GS Investors"), and other equity
co-investors (collectively, the "Investors") continue to have influence over us, including in connection with decisions that require the approval of shareholders.  

        Through their investment in Buck Holdings, L.P., the Investors continue to hold a significant interest in our outstanding common
stock (approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock as of March 15, 2013). As a result, the Investors potentially have the ability to influence the outcome of matters that require a vote
of our shareholders, including election of our Board of Directors and other corporate transactions, regardless of whether others believe that the transaction is in our best interests. In addition,
pursuant to a shareholders' agreement that we entered into with Buck Holdings, L.P., based on the current ownership by Buck Holdings, L.P. of our common stock, KKR has certain rights to
appoint directors to our Board. 

        The
Investors are also in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us.
The Investors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. 

<A
NAME="dc42301_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B