ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Investing in our securities involves a degree of risk. Persons buying our securities should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report and other filings that we make from time to time with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us and are not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.
Some of the statements in our reports are not statements of historical fact; instead, they are what are known as “forward-looking statements” that may or may not come to fruition. Certain of the discussions in this report and in the documents incorporated by reference into this report may express or imply projections of revenues or expenditures; plans and objectives for future operations, growth or initiatives (such as the proposed merger; expectations regarding certain planned real estate and merchandising strategic and operational changes and their related timing, charges and cost estimates and anticipated results and benefits; the expected number of new store openings, relocations and remodels; our gross profit rate; the expected sale of inventory and our plans with respect to product assortment, inventory levels and the impact of seasonality; and other potential initiatives and plans 
referred to in “Results of Operations – Executive Overview”); expected future economic performance; the expected outcome or impact of pending or threatened litigation; our anticipated effective tax rate; or the anticipated levels of borrowings under our amended credit facility and the expected use of those funds. These and similar statements regarding events or results which we expect will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements concerning matters that involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Forward-looking statements generally may be identified through the use of words such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “project,” “plan,” “expect,” “estimate,” “objective,” “forecast,” “goal,” “intend,” “will likely result,” or “will continue” and similar expressions.
Although when we make forward-looking statements we believe they are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business, a number of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are projected. Factors and risks that may cause actual results to differ from this forward-looking information include, but are not limited to, those described below, as well as other factors discussed throughout this document, including, without limitation, the factors described under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” or, from time to time, in our SEC filings, press releases and other communications. We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us or our operations in the 
way that we expect. 
We caution readers to evaluate all forward-looking information in the context of these risks and uncertainties and not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements made in this document which speak only as of the document’s date. We have no obligation, and do 


10


not intend, to publicly update or revise any of these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures we may make on related subjects in the documents we file with or furnish to the SEC or in our other public disclosures. Investors should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts and others, it is against our policy to selectively disclose to them any material nonpublic information or other confidential commercial information. Shareholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst regardless of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any financial projections, forecasts or op
inions, those reports are not our responsibility.
General economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance. General economic conditions in one or more of the markets we serve may adversely affect our financial performance. A general slowdown in the economy, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell, change our sales mix of products to one with a lower average gross profit and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. Higher interest rates, higher commodities rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other 
laws and regulations and other economic factors increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the operations and operating results of our stores. 
Our plans depend significantly on initiatives designed to improve the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, and failure to achieve or sustain these plans could affect our performance adversely. We have had, and expect to continue to have, initiatives (such as those relating to marketing, advertising, merchandising, promotions and real estate) in various stages of testing, evaluation, and implementation, upon which we expect to rely to improve our results of operations and financial condition. These initiatives are inherently risky and uncertain, even when tested successfully, in their application to our business in general. It is possible that successful testing can result partially from resources and attention that cannot be duplicated in broader implementation. Testing and general implementation also can be affected by other risk factors described herein that reduce the results
 expected. Successful systemwide implementation relies on consistency of training, stability of workforce, ease of execution, and the absence of offsetting factors that can influence results adversely. Failure to achieve successful implementation of our initiatives or the cost of these initiatives exceeding management’s estimates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Please reference the discussion of the initiatives in the “Executive Overview” portion of Management’s Discussion and Analysis below.
Because our business is moderately seasonal, with the highest portion of sales occurring during the fourth quarter, adverse events during the fourth quarter could materially affect our financial statements as a whole. We generally recognize a significant portion of our net sales and net income during the Christmas selling season, which occurs in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. In anticipation of this holiday, we purchase substantial amounts of seasonal 


11


inventory and hire many temporary employees. A seasonal merchandise inventory imbalance could result if for any reason our net sales during the Christmas selling season were to fall below either seasonal norms or expectations. If for any reason our fourth quarter results were substantially below expectations, our profitability and operating results could be adversely affected by unanticipated markdowns, especially in seasonal merchandise. Lower than anticipated sales in the Christmas selling season would also negatively affect our ability to absorb the increased seasonal labor costs.
We face intense competition that could limit our growth opportunities and reduce our profitability. The retail business is highly competitive. We operate in the discount retail merchandise business, which is highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, in-stock consistency, and customer service. This competitive environment subjects us to the risk of reduced profitability because of the lower prices, and thus the lower margins, required to maintain our competitive position. Also, companies operating in the discount retail merchandise sector (due to customer demographics and other factors) have limited ability to increase prices in response to increased costs (including vendor price increases). This limitation may adversely affect our margins and profitability. We compete for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and i
n other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional and national retailers. We compete with retailers operating discount, mass merchandise, drug, convenience, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets and supercenter-type stores. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do. These other competitors compete in a variety of ways, including aggressive promotional activities, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. If we fail to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets, it could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Business” in Item 1 above for additional discussion of our competitive situation. 
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry have recently undergone and continue to undergo some consolidation, which can significantly alter the competitive dynamics of the retail marketplace. This consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration and other improvements in their competitive positions. These business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by these consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Competition for customers has intensified in recent years as larger competitors have moved into, or increased their presence in, our geographic markets. We remain vulnerable to the marketing power and high level of consumer recognition of these larger compet
itors and to the risk that these competitors or others could venture into the “dollar store” industry in a significant way. Generally, we expect an increase in competition.
Natural disasters, unusually adverse weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, boycotts and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, unusually adverse weather conditions, pandemic outbreaks, boycotts and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in countries in which our suppliers are located and acts of terrorism, or similar disruptions could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. These events could result in physical 


12


damage to one or more of our properties, increases in fuel (or other energy) prices, the temporary or permanent closure of one or more of our stores or DCs, delays in opening new stores, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our DCs or stores, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and disruption to our information systems. These events also can have indirect consequences such as increases in the costs of insurance following a destructive hurricane season. These factors could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. 
Risks associated with the domestic and foreign suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importa
tion of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. Disruptions due to labor stoppages, strikes or slowdowns, or other disruptions, involving our vendors or the transportation and handling industries also may negatively affect our ability to receive merchandise and thus may negatively affect sales. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, our ability to obtain indemnification from foreign suppliers may be hindered by the manufacturers’ lack of understanding of U.S. product liability or other laws, which may make it more likely that we may be required to respond to claims or complaints from customers as if we were the manufacturer of the products. As we increase our imports of merchandise from foreign vendors, the risks associated with foreign imports will increase.
We are dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees while also controlling labor costs. Our future performance depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. Many of these employees are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Availability of personnel varies widely from location to location. Our ability to meet our labor needs generally, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores and DCs, while controlling our labor costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates and changes in minimum wage laws, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes
 in employment legislation. Increased turnover also can have significant indirect costs, including more recruiting and training needs, store disruptions due to management changeover and potential delays in new store openings or adverse customer reactions to inadequate customer service levels due to personnel shortages. Competition for qualified employees exerts upward pressure on wages paid to attract such personnel.


13


Also, our stores are decentralized and are managed through a network of geographically dispersed management personnel. Our inability to effectively and efficiently operate our stores, including the ability to control losses resulting from inventory and cash shrinkage, may negatively affect our sales and/or operating margins.
Our planned future growth will be impeded, which would adversely affect sales, if we cannot open new stores on schedule or if we close a number of stores materially in excess of anticipated levels. Our growth is dependent on both increases in sales in existing stores and the ability to open new stores. Our ability to timely open new stores and to expand into additional market areas depends in part on the following factors: the availability of attractive store locations; the absence of occupancy delays; the ability to negotiate favorable lease terms; the ability to hire and train new personnel, especially store managers; the ability to identify customer demand in different geographic areas; general economic conditions; and the availability of sufficient funds for expansion. In addition, many of these factors affect our ability to successfully relocate stores. Many of these factors are beyond our con
trol. Delays or failures in opening new stores, or achieving lower than expected sales in new stores, or drawing a greater than expected proportion of sales in new stores from existing stores, could materially adversely affect our growth. In addition, we may not anticipate all of the challenges imposed by the expansion of our operations and, as a result, may not meet our targets for opening new stores or expanding profitably. 
Some of our new stores may be located in areas where we have little or no meaningful experience. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, market conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new stores to be less successful than stores in our existing markets. 
Some of our new stores will be located in areas where we have existing units. Although we have experience in these markets, increasing the number of locations in these markets may cause us to over-saturate markets and temporarily or permanently divert customers and sales from our existing stores, thereby adversely affecting our overall profitability.
We are dependent upon the smooth functioning of our distribution network, the capacity of our DCs, and the timely receipt of inventory. We rely upon the ability to replenish depleted inventory through deliveries to our DCs from vendors and from the DCs to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea and truck. Labor shortages in the transportation industry could negatively affect transportation costs. In addition, long-term disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure that lead to delays or interruptions of service would adversely affect our business. 
The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent upon our information systems. We depend on a variety of information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. The software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. In addition, costs and 


14


potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. We also rely heavily on our information technology staff. If we cannot meet our staffing needs in this area, we may not be able to fulfill our technology initiatives while continuing to provide maintenance on existing systems.
We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements. A significant change in, or noncompliance with, these regulations could have a material adverse effect on profitability. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations. Changes in these regulations, particularly those governing the sale of products, may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement and could increase our cost of doing business. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations or untimely or incomplete execution of a required product recall can result in the imposition of penalties, including loss of licenses or significant fines or monetary penalties. 
Our current insurance program may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our profitably. Historically, our insurance coverage has reflected deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe are prudent based on the dispersion of our operations. However, there are types of losses we may incur but against which we cannot be insured or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to acts of war, employee and certain other crime and some natural disasters. If we incur these losses, our business could suffer. Certain material events may result in sizable losses for the insurance industry and adversely impact the availability of adequate insurance coverage or result in excessive premium increases. To offset negative insurance market trends, we may elect to self-insure, accept higher deductibles or reduce the amo
unt of coverage in response to these market changes. In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation, automobile liability, general liability and group health insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these losses, including expected increases in medical and indemnity costs, could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we continue to maintain property insurance for catastrophic events, we are effectively self-insured for losses up to the amount of our deductibles. If we experience a greater number of these losses than we anticipate, our profitability could be adversely affected.
Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders, government agencies, or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial statements as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operation a
re required. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There also may be adverse publicity associated 


15


with litigation that could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further details regarding certain of these pending matters.
In addition, from time to time third parties may claim that our trademarks or product offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming and distracting for executive management, result in costly litigation, cause changes to our private label offerings or delays in introducing new private label offerings, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Our credit facility and other debt instruments place financial and other restrictions on us. Our debt obligations and financings have certain financial covenants and limits on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to sell assets and to make certain payments. The lender’s ongoing obligation to extend credit under these financings will depend upon our compliance with these and other covenants. In addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness which may have important consequences, including placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt, limiting our flexibility in planning for changes in our business and the industry and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.
Our profitability could decline if we substantially exceed our anticipated borrowings under our amended credit facility. The amount of borrowings under our amended credit facility may fluctuate materially, particularly given the seasonality of our business, depending on various factors, including the time of year, our need to acquire merchandise inventory, changes to our merchandising plans and initiatives, changes to our capital expenditure plans and the occurrence of other events or transactions that may require funding through the amended credit facility. If these borrowings under our amended credit facility exceed our anticipated levels, our interest expense would increase beyond our expectations and a decrease in our profitability could result.
Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, resulting in a decline in the price of our securities. Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including those described above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and revenues and net income for any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our securities could decrease.
Failure to complete the proposed merger could adversely affect us.  On March 11, 2007, we entered into a merger agreement with affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (“KKR”).  There is no assurance that the merger agreement and the merger will be approved by our shareholders or that the other conditions to the completion of the merger will be satisfied.  The current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger 


16


will be completed, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Consummation of the merger is subject to the following risks:  
·
the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to a termination of the merger agreement;
·
the outcome of any legal proceedings that have been or may be instituted against us, members of our Board of Directors and others relating to the merger agreement, including the terms of any settlement of such legal proceedings that may be subject to court approval;
·
the inability to complete the merger due to the failure to obtain shareholder approval or the failure to satisfy other conditions to consummation of the merger;
·
the failure by KKR or its affiliates to obtain the necessary debt financing arrangements set forth in the commitment letter received in connection with the merger; and
·
the failure of the merger to close for any other reason.
In addition, in connection with the merger we will be subject to several risks, including the following: 
·
there may be substantial disruption to our business and a distraction of our management and employees from day-to-day operations, because matters related to the merger may require substantial commitments of their time and resources;
·
uncertainty about the effect of the merger may adversely affect our credit rating and our relationships with our employees, suppliers and other persons with whom we have business relationships; 
·
certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, are payable by us whether or not the merger is completed; and
·
under certain circumstances, if the merger is not completed we may be required to pay the buyer a termination fee of up to $225 million. 
Provisions in our charter, Tennessee law and our shareholder rights plan may discourage potential acquirors of our company, which could adversely affect the value of our securities. Our charter contains provisions that may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire or attempt to acquire control of our company. In addition, we are subject to certain provisions of Tennessee law that limit, in some cases, our ability to engage in certain business combinations with significant shareholders. Also, our shareholder rights plan may inhibit accumulations of substantial amounts of our common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors.
These provisions, either alone, or in combination with each other, give our current directors and executive officers a substantial ability to influence the outcome of a proposed 


17


acquisition of our company. These provisions would apply even if an acquisition or other significant corporate transaction was considered beneficial by some of our shareholders. If a change-in-control or change in management is delayed or prevented by these provisions, the market price of our securities could decline.
ITEM 1B