Item 1A. Risk Factors 

          You
should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report,
including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our
securities. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional
risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also
negatively impact us. Our business, financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors.

          This
Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or
uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in
these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the
risks we face described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that May
Affect Future Results” on page 28.

Recent changes in U.S., global, or regional economic
conditions could have an adverse effect on our businesses. 

          The
recent unprecedented level of volatility and disruption in the financial
markets has adversely affected economic activity in the United States and other
regions of the world in which we do business. The continued decline in economic
conditions may adversely affect demand for our services and products, thus
reducing our revenue. These conditions could also impair the ability of those
with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. 

          In
addition, these conditions have increased uncertainty regarding the
availability of, and terms of access to, external sources of capital. If we
were unable to secure access to external capital over a sustained period of
time or on reasonable terms, this could impair our ability to achieve our
business objectives.

The clinical testing business is highly
competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service
or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse
effect on our net revenues and profitability. 

          While
there has been significant consolidation in recent years in the clinical
testing business, it remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. 

          We
primarily compete with three types of clinical test providers: hospital-affiliated
laboratories, other independent clinical laboratories and physician-office
laboratories. We also compete with anatomic pathology practices and large
physician group practices. Hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to
perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). In addition, many
hospitals compete with independent clinical laboratories for outreach
(non-hospital patients) testing. Most physicians have admitting privileges or
other relationships with hospitals as part of their medical practice and
hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community physicians
and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital’s
laboratory. In addition, hospitals that own physician practices generally
require the physicians to refer tests to the hospital’s laboratory. As a result
of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we compete
against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality of service.
Our failure to provide a broad test menu or service superior to
hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

          If
we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and
our net revenues and profitability could be damaged.

Our business could be
adversely impacted if healthcare reform focuses on reducing healthcare costs
but does not recognize the value and importance of diagnostic testing. 

          Government
oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is
significant and may increase. There has been extensive public discussion of
healthcare reform. While it is not possible to predict whether

19




change in U.S.
government regulation of healthcare will occur, or the nature or impact of any
such change, our business could be adversely impacted if healthcare reform
focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and
importance of diagnostic testing.

Government payers,
such as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and
reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical test services.

          We
face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and reimbursement for
clinical testing services.

          From
time to time, Congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the
Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. In addition, CMS has adopted
policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. We
also provide physician services which are reimbursed by Medicare under a
physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. CMS
changes add to our costs by increasing complexity and administrative
requirements. Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to
administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures.

          In
addition, over the last several years, the federal government has sponsored
programs to expand private health insurance programs for Medicare beneficiaries,
called “Medicare Advantage” programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to
switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. There has been
rapid growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs,
and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. Also in recent years, states
have increasingly mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private
managed care arrangements. If these efforts continue to be successful, we may
experience a further shift of traditional Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries
to private health insurance options. Recently, state budget pressures have
encouraged states to consider several courses that may impact our business,
such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage
eligibility, service coverage restrictions and imposing taxes on our services. 

          From
time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding
can be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at
attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. In 2008,
Congress enacted legislation that eliminated a proposed competitive bidding
demonstration project for clinical testing services. State governments also
have considered from time to time whether to apply competitive bidding to
clinical testing services. The industry remains concerned about the potential
use of competitive bidding for clinical testing services and believes that the
quality of services and access to those services could be adversely impacted by
implementation of competitive bidding. If competitive bidding were implemented
on a regional or national basis for clinical testing, it could materially
adversely affect us.

          We
expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls
and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. These
efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse
impact on our business.

Healthcare plans have
taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare
services, including clinical test services. 

          We
also face efforts by non-governmental third party payers, including healthcare
plans, to reduce utilization and reimbursement for clinical testing services. 

          The
healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare
insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant
bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including
clinical laboratories. These healthcare plans, and independent physician
associations, may demand that clinical laboratories accept discounted fee
structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with
providing testing services to their members through capitated payment
arrangements. In addition, some healthcare plans have been willing to limit the
PPO or POS laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain
improved fee-for-service pricing. There are also an increasing number of
patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that
involve greater patient cost-sharing. 

          The
increased consolidation among healthcare plans also has increased the potential
adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer.

          We
expect continuing efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent
cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services. These
efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and
policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a healthcare plan, may have
a material adverse effect on our business.

Business development activities are
inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may
be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse
effect on our business.

          We
plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business
development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, licensing, investments
and alliances. However, these plans are subject to the availability of
appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar
opportunities. Moreover, the success of

20




any such
effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to
properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate
it into our business. The success of our strategic alliances depends not only
on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources,
efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. Further, disputes may
arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of
interests.

          Each
acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that was previously
operated independently and has different systems, processes, policies and
cultures. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the
diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of
businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and
systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation
and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in
retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse
effects on operating results. The process of combining companies may be
disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of
momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among
others:




 


 


 




 


•


loss of key
 customers or employees;




 


 


 




 


• 


difficulty
 in standardizing information and other systems;




 


 


 




 


•


difficulty
 in consolidating facilities and infrastructure;




 


 


 




 


•


failure to
 maintain the quality of services that our Company has historically provided; 




 


 


 




 


•


diversion of
 management’s attention from the day-to-day business of our Company as a
 result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties;
 and 




 


 


 




 


•


the added
 costs of dealing with such disruptions.




          If
we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely
manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected.
Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations
of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be
able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such
integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner.

Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable
successfully to continue to improve our efficiency.

          As
noted above, government payers and healthcare insurers have taken steps to
control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including
clinical testing services; such steps may continue. If we are unable to
continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our
profitability of these activities, our business could be negatively affected.

Adverse resolution of
the investigation related to NID may cause us material losses and have an adverse impact on our business
and reputation. 

          NID
and the Company each received a subpoena from the United States Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of New York during the fourth quarter of 2004.
The subpoenas requested a wide range of business records, including documents
regarding parathyroid hormone (“PTH”) test kits manufactured by NID and PTH
testing performed by the Company. The Company has voluntarily and actively
cooperated with the investigation, providing information, witnesses and
business records of NID and the Company, including documents related to PTH
tests and test kits, as well as other tests and test kits. In the second and
third quarters of 2005, the FDA conducted an inspection of NID and issued a
Form 483 listing the observations made by the FDA during the course of the
inspection. NID responded to the Form 483.

          During
the third quarter of 2007, the government and the Company began settlement
discussions. In the course of those discussions, the government disclosed
to the Company certain of the government’s legal theories regarding the amount
of damages allegedly incurred by the government, which include alleged
violations of civil and criminal statutes including the False Claims Act and
the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act. Violations of these statutes and related
regulations could lead to a warning letter, injunction, fines or penalties,
exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or criminal prosecution, as well
as claims by third parties. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company and
the United States Attorney’s Office reached an agreement in principle to
resolve these claims. As part of the agreement, NID, which was closed in 2006,
is expected to enter a guilty plea to a single count of felony misbranding. The
terms of the settlement are subject to the final negotiation and execution of
definitive agreements, which is expected to include a corporate integrity
agreement, the approval by the United States Department of Justice and the
United States Department of Health and Human Services and satisfactory
resolution of related state claims. There can be no assurance, however, when or if a settlement may be finalized, or as
to its terms. If a settlement is not finalized, the Company would defend itself
and NID and could incur significant costs in doing so.

          Any
settlement is expected to include a corporate integrity agreement which may
adversely impact our business operations and increase our costs.

21




          The
Company has established a reserve reflected in discontinued operations of $316
million in connection with these claims. The reserve reflects the Company’s current estimate of the expected
probable loss with respect to these matters, assuming the settlement is
finalized. If a settlement is not finalized, the eventual losses related to
these matters could be materially different than the amount reserved and could
be material to the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial
condition in the period that such matters are determined or paid. 

We are subject to
numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may
face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be
impacted, if we fail to comply. 

          Our
business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws
and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal and state
levels), and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. While we
seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of
the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not
been interpreted by the courts, including those relating to:




 


 


 




 


•


billing and
 reimbursement of clinical tests;




 


 


 




 


•


certification
 of clinical laboratories; 




 


 


 




 


•


the
 anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations;




 


 


 




 


•


the laws and
 regulations administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration;




 


 


 




 


•


the
 corporate practice of medicine;




 


 


 




 


•


operational,
 personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing
 services are accurate, reliable and timely; 




 


 


 




 


•


physician
 fee splitting;




 


 


 




 


•


relationships
 with physicians and hospitals;




 


 


 




 


•


safety and
 health of laboratory employees; and




 


 


 




 


•


handling,
 transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous
 waste and radioactive materials.




          These
laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial,
regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make
changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We
may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any
other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our
products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we
fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we
could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation
in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as
incur additional liabilities from third party claims. If any of the foregoing
were to occur, our reputation could be damaged, important business
relationships with third parties could be adversely affected and it could have
a material adverse effect on our business.

          We
regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from
governmental authorities. We also are subject from time to time to qui tam
claims brought by former employees or other “whistle blowers.” The federal and
state governments continue to strengthen their position and scrutiny over
healthcare fraud. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare
fraud and abuse provide federal enforcement personnel substantially increased
funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. The
government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount
of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our
products and services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a
non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, which represented approximately 18% of our net revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2008. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types
of investigations and related litigation can result in:




 


 


 




 


•


diversion of
 management time and attention;




 


 


 




 


•


expenditure
 of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages;




 


 


 




 


•


limitations
 on our ability to continue some of our operations;




 


 


 




 


•


enforcement
 actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims
 and damages;




 


 


 




 


•


decreased
 demand for our services and products; and/or




 


 


 




 


•


injury to
 our reputation.




22




          Although
we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable
laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or
tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. Any noncompliance by us with
applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations. Moreover, even when an investigation is resolved
favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion
of management focus may be extensive.

          Changes
in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming
more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to
additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such
changes could require us to modify our business objectives and could have a
material adverse effect on our business. 

Failure to timely or accurately bill for our
services could have a material adverse effect on our business.

          Billing
for clinical testing services is extremely complicated and is subject to
extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. Depending on
the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as
patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and
employer groups. Changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity
and cost of our billing process. Additionally, auditing for compliance with
applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and
procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. Further,
our billing systems require significant technology investment and, as a result
of marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems. 

          Missing
or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the
billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally
increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. We believe
that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack
of, or inaccurate, billing information. Failure to timely or correctly bill may
lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging
of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of
operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with applicable laws relating to
billing federal healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including:
(1) exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset
forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of
various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our
business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or cash flows.

Failure in our information technology
systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could
disrupt our operations and cause the loss of customers or business
opportunities.

          Information
technology (IT) systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our
business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer
service, logistics and management of medical data. Our success depends, in
part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems. IT
systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including
telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters.
Moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our IT systems may
be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar
disruptive problems. We also have taken precautionary measures to prevent
unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems. Nevertheless, we may
experience damages to our systems, and system failures and interruptions. 

          In
addition, we are in the process of implementing standard laboratory information
and billing systems, which we expect will take several years to complete.
Failure to properly implement this standardization process could materially
adversely affect our business. During system conversions of this type, workflow
is re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system
capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. In addition,
the implementation process, including the transfer of databases and master
files to new data centers, presents significant conversion risks that need to
be managed carefully.

          If
we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of standard
laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. For
example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver
test results or perform or bill for tests in a timely manner. If our operations
are interrupted, it could adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss
of customers and net revenues.

Failure to develop, or acquire licenses for,
new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume
and net revenues.

          The
diagnostics testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may
obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere
with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business
or increase our costs. In addition, they could introduce new tests that may
result in a decrease in the demand for our tests or cause us to reduce the
prices of our tests. Our success in continuing to introduce new tests,
technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and
improved technologies on favorable terms. We may be unable to develop or
introduce new tests. We also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable
licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield
commercially successful diagnostic tests. If we are unable to license these
testing methods at competitive rates, our

23




research and
development costs may increase as a result. In addition, if we are unable to
develop and introduce, or license, new tests, technology and services to expand
our esoteric testing business, our testing methods may become outdated when
compared with our competition and our testing volume and revenue may be
materially and adversely affected. 

We may be subject to
intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business.

          We
may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to
infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or
more of the following: 




 


 


 




 


•


cease
 developing, performing or selling products or services that incorporate the
 challenged intellectual property; 




 


 


 




 


•


obtain and
 pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property
 right; 




 


 


 




 


•


redesign or
 reengineer our tests; 




 


 


 




 


•


change our
 business processes; or 




 


 


 




 


•


pay
 substantial damages, court costs and attorneys’ fees, including potentially
 increased damages for any infringement held to be willful.




The development of new, more cost-effective
tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, or the
internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact
our testing volume and net revenues.

          Advances
in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can
be performed outside of an independent clinical laboratory such as (1)
point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2)
esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or
(3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by
physicians in their offices. Although the CLIA compliance costs make it cost
prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their
offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to
increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians.
Diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically
deemed to be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office
laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by
patients in their homes. Test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to
both physicians and patients of test kits approved by the FDA for point-of-care
testing or home use. Development of such technology and its use by our
customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and
negatively impact our net revenues.

          Our
customers, such as hospitals and physicians, may internalize tests that we
currently perform. If our customers were to internalize tests that we currently
perform and we did not develop new or alternative tests attractive to our
customers, the demand for our testing services may be reduced and our net
revenues may be materially adversely impacted.

Our outstanding debt may impair our financial
and operating flexibility.

          As
of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $3.1 billion of long-term debt
outstanding. Except for outstanding letters of credit and operating leases, we
do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available.
Our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. These restrictions
could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our
business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and
interest payments on our debt. We have obtained ratings on our debt from
Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Services. There can be no assurance
that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a
rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that
rating agency’s judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the
rating, such as adverse changes in our Company or our industry, so warrant. If
such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving
credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan would increase.
Changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or
acceleration of any of our debt.

          We
or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our
ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to
generate cash in the future. If we incur additional debt, a greater portion of
our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we
do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may
need to seek additional financing. In this case, it may be more difficult, or
we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. As a
result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and
capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with
indebtedness.

Our ability to
attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our
business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our
performance. 

          Our
people are a critical resource. The supply of qualified personnel may be
limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. If we were to lose,
or to fail to attract and retain, key management personnel or qualified

24




skilled
technical or professional employees at our clinical laboratories, research
centers or manufacturing facilities, our earnings and revenues could be
adversely affected. In addition, if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and
retain, skilled pathologists with positive relationships with their respective
local medical communities, particularly those with subspecialties, our earnings
and revenues could be adversely affected.

Failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality
standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the
performance of our testing services and in the design, manufacture and
marketing of our products could adversely affect the results of our operations
and adversely impact our reputation. 

          The
provision of clinical testing services, including anatomic pathology services,
and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic
products involve certain inherent risks. The services that we provide and the
products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide
information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore,
users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors
than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. 

          Manufacturing
or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure
of risks relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse
events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our
products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could
result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any
recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that
could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of
our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against
us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new
product approvals. 

          Similarly,
negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse
events. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts
or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees
who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We are
subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our
reputation. 

The failure of our IT
systems to keep pace with technological advances may significantly reduce our
revenues or increase our expenses.

          Public
and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology (HCIT)
standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the
electronic exchange of clinical information, including test results, could
require costly modifications to our existing HCIT systems. While we do not
expect HCIT standards to be adopted or implemented without adequate time to comply,
if we fail to adopt or delay in implementing HCIT standards, we could lose
customers and business opportunities.

Our operations and
reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information
security policies.

          In
our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient
data. If we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become
available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our
business could be impaired and our reputation could suffer.

We are subject to numerous political, legal,
operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which
could impact our business in many ways.

          Although
we conduct most of our business in the United States, our expanding
international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing
business in international markets. Depending on the market, these risks
include, without limitation: 




 


 


 




 


•


changes in
 the local economic environment; 




 


 


 




 


•


political
 instability;




 


 


 




 


•


social
 changes;




 


 


 




 


•


intellectual
 property legal protections and remedies; 




 


 


 




 


•


trade
 regulations; 




 


 


 




 


•


procedures
 and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and
 marketing of products and services;




 


 


 




 


•


exchange
 controls;




 


 


 




 


•


weak legal
 systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in
 local laws or regulations; and 




25







 


 


 




 


•


potentially
 longer payment and collection cycles.




          International
operations also require us to devote significant management resources to
implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to
overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. 

          We
expect to expand further our international operations, through acquisition or
otherwise, which would increase these risks. As a result of these risks, our
financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely
affected. 

Our medical
diagnostic products business is subject to numerous governmental regulations
and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant
diagnostics products.

          Our
medical diagnostic products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous
governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by
regulatory authorities outside the United States, including the European
Commission. The process of obtaining regulatory clearance or approval to market
a medical diagnostic product can be costly and time-consuming, and clearance or
approval for future products is never certain. Even when additional indications
or uses of existing products are sought, securing clearance or approval is
never certain. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain clearance or
approval for, future products, or new indications or uses, could result in
delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs.

          In
addition, no assurance can be given that we will remain in compliance with
applicable regulations once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding
manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarketing
reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to
manufacturing quality concerns. Our diagnostic product facilities and
procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including
periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to
comply with applicable rules could result in, among other things, substantial
modifications to our business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or
seizures of our products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or
more of our facilities while we or our suppliers remedy the alleged violation;
the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and
withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these
events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our
revenues, profitability or financial condition.

Our efforts to
develop commercially successful medical diagnostic products may not succeed.

          We
may commit substantial efforts, funds and other resources to developing
commercially successful medical diagnostic products. A high rate of failure is
inherent in the development of new medical diagnostic products. There is no
assurance that our efforts to develop these products will be commercially
successful. Failure can occur at any point in the development process,
including after significant funds have been invested.

          Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may have only limited
commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve
positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals,
limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to
establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or the infringement of
intellectual property rights of others. Even if we successfully develop new
products or enhancements or new generations of our existing products, they may
be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or changing
industry standards. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace
because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or
uncertainty over third party reimbursement. We cannot state with certainty when
or whether any of our medical diagnostic products under development will be
launched, whether we will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire
products, or whether any diagnostic products will be commercially successful. Failure
to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may
cause our products to become obsolete.

Our operations may be adversely impacted by
the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes,
hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities.

          Our
operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such
as hurricanes and earthquakes, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other
criminal activities. Such events may result in a temporary decline in the
number of patients who seek clinical testing services. In addition, such events
may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive
materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services.

Our business could be
adversely impacted by CMS’ adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses.

          CMS
has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as ICD-10, which
significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. The new coding set is
currently required to be implemented by October 1, 2013. We may be required to
incur significant expense in implementing the new coding set, and if we do not
adequately implement it, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition,
if as a result of the new coding set physicians fail to provide appropriate
codes for desired tests, we may not be reimbursed for such tests.

26




Adverse
results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an
adverse impact on our client base and reputation.

          We
are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of
business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property,
professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from
governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers regarding billing
issues. Some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial
in amount and could divert management’s attention from operations. The
proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage
to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have
insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any
liability with respect to such claims. The ultimate outcome of the various
proceedings or claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
impact of such matters is determined or paid.

27





CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY
AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS 

          Some
statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to
historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as
“may”, “believe”, “will”, “expect”, “project”, “estimate”,
“anticipate”, “plan”
or “continue.” These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans
and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that
could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ
materially from the forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to
unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information
presented in this document. The following important factors could cause our
actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted
or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: 




 


 


 


 




 


(a)


Heightened
 competition from independent clinical testing companies, and from hospitals
 with respect to testing for non-patients and from physicians. 




 


 


 


 




 


(b)


Increased
 pricing pressure from customers and payers. 




 


 


 


 




 


(c)


A sustained
 decline in economic conditions, or turmoil in financial markets leading to
 lack of access to external capital over a sustained period of time or on
 reasonable terms.




 


 


 


 




 


(d)


Impact of
 changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted
 or capitated fee arrangements. 




 


 


 


 




 


(e)


Adverse
 actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare
 reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the
 value and importance to healthcare of diagnostic testing, unilateral
 reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an
 increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that
 involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health
 insurers or other payers. 




 


 


 


 




 


(f)


The impact
 upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative
 expenses resulting from our compliance with Medicare and Medicaid
 administrative policies and requirements of third party payers. These
 include:




 


 


 


 




 


 


(1)


the
 requirements of Medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many
 commonly ordered tests and the possibility that third party payers will
 increasingly adopt similar requirements; 




 


 


 


 




 


 


(2)


the policy
 of CMS to limit Medicare reimbursement for tests contained in automated
 chemistry panels to the amount that would have been paid if only the covered
 tests, determined on the basis of demonstrable “medical necessity,” had been
 ordered; 




 


 


 


 




 


 


(3)


continued
 inconsistent practices among the different local carriers administering
 Medicare; 




 


 


 


 




 


 


(4)


inability to
 obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that
 cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; and 




 


 


 


 




 


 


(5)


increased
 challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health
 plans. 




 


 


 


 




 


(g)


Adverse
 results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private
 actions. These include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension
 of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid
 programs and/or criminal penalties.




 


 


 


 




 


(h)


Failure to
 efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to
 any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management
 personnel.




 


 


 


 




 


(i)


Denial of
 CLIA certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories
 under the CLIA standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the
 Medicare and Medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by
 federal, state and local agencies.




 


 


 


 




 


(j)


Changes in federal,
 state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or
 increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories or
 tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories, including regulation by
 the FDA. 




 


 


 


 




 


(k)


Inability to
 achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. 




 


 


 


 




 


(l)


Inability to
 achieve additional benefits from our Six Sigma and efficiency initiatives. 




 


 


 


 




 


(m)


Adverse
 publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us. 




 


 


 


 




 


(n)


Computer or
 other IT system failures that affect our ability to perform tests, report
 test results or properly 




28







 


 


 


 




 


 


bill
 customers, including potential failures resulting from the standardization of
 our IT systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures,
 malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or
 natural disasters.




 


 


 




 


(o)


Development
 of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical test
 medicine, including technology changes that lead to the development of more
 cost-effective tests such as (1)
 point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2)
 esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories
 or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of
 clinical laboratories. 




 


 


 


 




 


(p)


Issuance of
 patents or other property rights to our competitors or others that could
 prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our
 tests or operate our business. 




 


 


 


 




 


(q)


Development
 of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or
 usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets by
 competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. 




 


 


 


 




 


(r)


Regulatory
 delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed products,
 tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests.
 




 


 


 


 




 


(s)


Inability to
 obtain or maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights protections
 of our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary
 rights. 




 


 


 


 




 


(t)


Impact of
 any national healthcare information network and the adoption of standards for
 health information technology interoperability that are incompatible with
 existing software and hardware infrastructure requiring widespread
 replacement of systems and/or software. 




 


 


 


 




 


(u)


Inability to
 promptly or properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments
 for services that we do bill. 




 


 


 


 




 


(v)


Changes in
 interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s
 and Moody’s Investor Services causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of
 and access to capital. 




 


 


 


 




 


(w)


Inability to
 hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or
 more of our key senior management personnel. 




 


 


 


 




 


(x)


Terrorist
 and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural
 disasters, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or
 our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. 




 


 


 


 




 


(y)


Difficulties
 and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment
 and/or marketing of new products or new uses of existing products. 




Item 1B