Item 1A. Risk Factors

          You
should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report,
including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our
securities. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional
risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also
negatively impact us. Our business, financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors.

          This
Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or
uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in
these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the
risks we face described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that
May Affect Future Results” on page 27.

19




The clinical testing business is highly
competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service
or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse
effect on our net revenues and profitability. 

          While
there has been significant consolidation in recent years in the clinical
testing business, it remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. 

          We
primarily compete with three types of clinical test providers: hospital-affiliated laboratories, other
independent clinical laboratories and physician-office laboratories. We also compete with anatomic pathology
practices and large physician group practices.
Hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on
their patients (inpatient or outpatient).
In addition, many hospitals compete with independent clinical
laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. Most physicians have
admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as part of their
medical practice and hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with
community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach
testing to the hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals that own physician
practices generally require the physicians to refer tests to the hospital’s
laboratory. As a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community
physicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based
on quality of service. Our failure to
provide a broad test menu or service superior to hospital-affiliated
laboratories and other laboratories could have a material adverse effect on our
business.

          If
we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and
our net revenues and profitability could be damaged.

Government payers, such as Medicare and
Medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and pricing of healthcare
services, including clinical test services.

          We
face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and pricing for
clinical testing services.

          From
time to time, Congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the
Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule.
In addition, CMS has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for
clinical tests that we perform. We also
are subject to Congressional mandates, such as a mandate for Medicare to
conduct a demonstration project to determine whether competitive bidding for clinical
test services can reduce costs without adversely impacting quality and
beneficiary access to services. We also
provide physician services which are reimbursed by Medicare under a physician
fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. CMS changes add to our costs by increasing
complexity and administrative requirements.
Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative
and billing requirements and budget pressures.

          In
addition, over the last several years, the federal government has sponsored
programs to expand private health insurance programs for Medicare
beneficiaries, called “Medicare Advantage” programs, and has encouraged such
beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. There has been rapid growth of health
insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs, and of beneficiary
enrollment in these programs. Also in
recent years, states have increasingly mandated that Medicaid
beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. If these efforts continue to be successful,
we may experience a further shift of traditional Medicare and Medicaid
beneficiaries to private health insurance options. 

          We
expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls
and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. These
efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse
impact on our business.

Healthcare insurers have taken steps to
control the utilization and pricing of healthcare services, including clinical
test services. 

          We
also face efforts by non-governmental third party payers, including healthcare
insurance plans, to reduce utilization and pricing for clinical testing
services. 

          The
healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare
insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant
bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers,
including clinical laboratories. These
healthcare insurance plans, and independent physician associations, may demand
that clinical laboratories accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a
portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to
their members through capitated payment arrangements. In addition, some healthcare insurance plans have been willing to
limit the PPO or POS laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to
obtain improved fee-for-service pricing.
There are also more patients in consumer driven products and high
deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. 

20




          The
increased consolidation among healthcare insurers also has increased the
potential risk of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer.

          We
expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls
and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. These
efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and
policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a healthcare insurer, may
have a material adverse effect on our business.

Business
development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations
with businesses we acquire may be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may
have a material adverse effect on our business.

          We
plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business
development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, licensing, investments
and alliances. However, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability
of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking
similar opportunities. Moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected
by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the
potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. The
success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and
capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills
contributed by our strategic partners. Further, disputes may arise with
strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests.

          Each
acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that previously
operated independently and has different systems, processes and cultures. Integration
of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of
management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we
have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and
the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and
retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining
the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on
operating results. The process of combining companies may be disruptive to both
of our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in,
such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others:




 


 


 




 


•


loss of key customers or employees;




 


 


 




 


•


difficulty in standardizing information and other
 systems;




 


 


 




 


•


difficulty in consolidating facilities and
 infrastructure;




 


 


 




 


•


failure to maintain the quality of services that our
 Company has historically provided; 




 


 


 




 


•


diversion of management’s attention from the
 day-to-day business of our Company as a result of the need to deal with the
 foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and 




 


 


 




 


•


the added costs of dealing with such disruptions.




          In
addition, integration of clinical testing companies is further complicated
because most clinical testing is performed under arrangements that are
terminable at will or on short notice. Thus, an acquisition may result in a
customer’s decision to stop using us for clinical testing. 

          If
we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely
manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected.
    Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations
    of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not
    be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from
    such integration, either in monetary terms or a timely manner.

Our business could be
negatively affected if we are unable successfully to continue to improve our
efficiency.

          As
noted above, government payers and healthcare insurers have taken steps to
control the utilization and pricing of healthcare services, including clinical
testing services, and such steps may continue. If we are unable to continue to
improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate these activities, our business
could be negatively affected.

Adverse
resolution of the investigation related to NID may cause us material losses and have an adverse impact on our client
base and reputation.

          NID
and the Company each received a subpoena from the United States Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of New York during the fourth quarter of 2004.
The subpoenas requested a wide range of business records, including documents
regarding parathyroid hormone (“PTH”) test kits manufactured by NID and PTH
testing performed by the Company. The Company has voluntarily and actively
cooperated with the investigation, providing information, witnesses and
business records of NID and the Company, including documents related to PTH
tests and test kits, as well as other tests and test kits. In the second and
third quarters of 2005, the FDA conducted an inspection of NID and issued a
Form 483 listing the observations made by the FDA during the course of the
inspection. NID responded to the Form 483.

21




          During
the third quarter of 2007, the government and the Company began settlement
discussions. In the course of those discussions, the government has disclosed
to the Company certain of the government’s legal theories regarding the amount
of damages allegedly incurred by the government, which include alleged
violations of civil and criminal statutes including the False Claims Act and
the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act. Violations of these statutes and related
regulations could lead to a warning letter, injunction, fines or penalties,
exclusion from federal health care programs and/or criminal prosecution, as
well as claims by third parties. The Company has analyzed the government’s
position and presented its own analysis which argued against many of the
government’s claims. In light of that analysis and based on the status of settlement
discussions, the Company has established a reserve, in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, reflected in discontinued operations, of $241 million in connection with these
claims. Of the total reserve, $51 million and $190 million was recorded in the
third and fourth quarters, respectively, of 2007. The Company estimates that
the amount reserved represents the minimum expected probable loss with respect
to this matter. The Company does not believe that a reasonable estimate for
these losses in excess of the established reserve can be made at this time. The
Company has recorded a deferred tax benefit associated with that portion of the
reserve that it expects will be tax deductible. Eventual losses
related to these matters may substantially exceed the reserve, and the impact
could be material to the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and
financial condition in the period that such matters are determined or paid.

          The
Company continues to engage in discussions with the United States Attorney’s
Office and those discussions potentially could lead to an agreement in
principle to resolve some or all of the matters in the near future. There can
be no assurance, however, when or whether a settlement may be reached, or as to
its terms. If the Company cannot reach an acceptable settlement agreement with
the United States Attorney’s Office, the Company would defend itself and NID
and could incur significant costs in doing so. 

We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements
governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and
our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. 

          The
Company’s business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently
changing laws and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal
and state levels), and the other jurisdictions in which the Company engages in
business. While we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all
applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or
indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including those
relating to:




 


 


 




 


•


billing and reimbursement of clinical tests;




 


 


 




 


•


certification of clinical laboratories; 




 


 


 




 


•


the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and
 regulations;




 


 


 




 


•


the laws and regulations administered by the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration;




 


 


 




 


•


the corporate practice of medicine;




 


 


 




 


•


operational, personnel and quality requirements
 intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and
 timely; 




 


 


 




 


•


physician fee splitting;




 


 


 




 


•


relationships with physicians and hospitals;




 


 


 




 


•


safety and health of laboratory employees; and




 


 


 




 


•


handling, transportation and disposal of medical
 specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials.




          These
laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial,
regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make
changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We
may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any
other regulatory approvals needed for the operation of our business. If we fail
to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain,
renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses, we could suffer civil and
criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental
healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and
authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional
liabilities from third party claims. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our
reputation could be damaged, important business relationships with third
parties could be adversely affected and it could have a material adverse effect
on our business.

          We
regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from
governmental authorities. We also are subject from time to time to qui tam
claims brought by former employees or other “whistle blowers.” The federal
government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over healthcare
fraud. In addition, legislative provisions 

22




relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal
enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to
pursue suspected fraud and abuse. The federal government has substantial
leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far
exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our products and services, and
the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which represented
approximately 17% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December
31, 2007. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of
investigations and related litigation can result in:




 


 


 




 


•


diversion of management time and attention;




 


 


 




 


•


expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees,
 costs and payment of damages;




 


 


 




 


•


limitations on our ability to continue some of our
 operations;




 


 


 




 


•


enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the
 assertion of private litigation claims and damages;




 


 


 




 


•


decreased demand for our services and products; and 




 


 


 




 


•


injury to our reputation.




          Although
we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable
laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or
tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. Any noncompliance by us with
applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our
results of operations. Moreover, even when an investigation is resolved
favorably, the process may be time consuming and the legal costs and diversion
of management focus may be extensive.

          Changes
in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming
more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to additional
costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such changes could
require us to modify our business objectives and could have a material adverse
impact on the Company’s business. 

Failure
to timely or accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

          Billing
for clinical test services is extremely complicated and is subject to extensive
and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. Depending on the billing
arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients,
insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer
groups. Changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity and cost
of our billing process. Additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable
laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures
adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. Further, our billing
systems require significant technology investment and, as a result of
marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems. 

          Missing
or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the
billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally
increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. We believe
that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack
of, or inaccurate, billing information. Failure to timely or correctly bill may
lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging
of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of
operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with applicable laws relating to
billing federal healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including (1)
exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset
forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of
various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our
business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or cash flows.

Failure
in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our
systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of
customers or business opportunities.

          Information
technology (IT) systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our
business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer
service, logistics and management of medical data. Our success depends, in
part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems. IT
systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including
telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters.
Moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our IT systems may
be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar
disruptive problems. We also have taken precautionary measures to prevent
unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems. Nevertheless, we may
experience damages to our systems, and system failures and interruptions. 

          In
addition, we are in the process of implementing standard laboratory information
and billing systems, which we expect will take several years to complete. Failure
to properly implement this standardization process could materially adversely
affect our business. During system conversions of this type, workflow is
re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system
capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. In addition,
the

23




implementation process, including the transfer of
databases and master files to new data centers, presents significant conversion
risks that need to be managed carefully.

          If
we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of standard
laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. For
example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver
test results or perform or bill for tests in a timely manner. If our operations
are interrupted, it could adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss
of customers and net revenues.

Failure
to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could
negatively impact our testing volume and net revenues.

          The
diagnostics testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may
obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere
with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business
or increase our costs. In addition, they could introduce new tests that may
result in a decrease in the demand for our tests or cause us to reduce the
prices of our tests. Our success in continuing to introduce new tests,
technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and
improved technologies on favorable terms. We may be unable to develop or
introduce new tests. We also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable
licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield
commercially successful diagnostic tests. If we are unable to license these
testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may
increase as a result. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce,
or license, new tests, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing
business, our testing methods may become outdated when compared with our
competition and our testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely
affected. 

The
development of new, more cost-effective tests that can be performed by our
customers or by patients could negatively impact our testing volume and net
revenues.

          Advances
in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can
be performed outside of an independent clinical laboratory such as (1)
point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2)
esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or
(3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by
physicians in their offices. Although the CLIA compliance costs make it cost
prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their
offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to
increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians. Diagnostic
tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to
be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office
laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by
patients in their homes. Test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to
both physicians and patients of test kits approved by the FDA for point-of-care
testing or home use. Development of such technology and its use by our
customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and
negatively impact our net revenues.

Our
outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility.

          As
of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.4 billion of long-term debt
outstanding. Except for outstanding letters of credit and operating leases, we
do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available.
Our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. These restrictions
could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our
business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and
interest payments on our debt. We have obtained ratings on our debt from
Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Services. There can be no assurance
that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a
rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that
rating agency’s judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the
rating, such as adverse changes in our Company or our industry, so warrant. If
such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving
credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan would increase.
Changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or
acceleration of any of our debt.

          We
or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our
ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to
generate cash in the future. If we incur additional debt a greater portion of
our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we
do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may
need to seek additional financing. In this case, it may be more difficult, or
we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. As a
result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and
capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with
indebtedness.

Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is
critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially
adversely affect our performance. 

          Our
people are a critical resource and competition for qualified employees is
strong. If we were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, key management
personnel or qualified skilled technical or professional employees at our
clinical laboratories, research centers or manufacturing facilities, the
Company’s earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, if we
were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, skilled pathologists with positive
relationships with 

24




their respective local medical communities,
particularly those with subspecialties, the Company’s earnings and revenues
could be adversely affected.

Failure
to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the
highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our testing services
and in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products could adversely
affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. 

          The
provision of clinical testing services, including anatomic pathology services,
and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic
products involve certain inherent risks. The services that we provide and the
products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide
information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore,
users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors
than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. 

          Manufacturing
or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure
of risks relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse
events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our
products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could
result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any
recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that
could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of
our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against
us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new
product approvals. 

          Similarly,
negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse
events. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for
acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital
employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We
are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our
reputation. 

The failure of our IT systems to keep pace with technological
advances may significantly reduce our revenues or increase our expenses.

          Public
and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology (HCIT)
standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the
electronic exchange of clinical information, including test results, could
require costly modifications to our existing HCIT systems. While we do not
expect HCIT standards to be adopted or implemented without adequate time to
comply, if we fail to adopt or delay in implementing HCIT standards, we could
lose customers and business opportunities.

Our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not
adequately secure information.

          In
our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient
data. If we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become
available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our
business could be impaired and our reputation could suffer.

We are
subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result
of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways.

          Although
we conduct most of our business in the U.S., our expanding international
operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in
international markets. Depending on the market, these risks include, without
limitation: 




 


 


 




 


•


changes in the local economic environment; 




 


 


 




 


•


political instability;




 


 


 




 


•


social changes;




 


 


 




 


•


intellectual property legal protections and
 remedies; 




 


 


 




 


•


trade regulations; 




 


 


 




 


•


procedures and actions affecting approval,
 production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products and services;




 


 


 




 


•


exchange controls;




 


 


 




 


•


weak legal systems which may affect our ability to
 enforce contractual rights;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in local laws or regulations; and 




 


 


 




 


•


potentially longer payment and collection cycles.




25




          International
operations also require us to devote significant management resources, to
implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to
overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. 

          We
expect to expand further our international operations, through acquisition or
otherwise, which would increase these risks. As a result of these risks, our
financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely
affected. 

Our
operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such
as hurricanes and earthquakes, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other
criminal activities.

          Our
operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such
as hurricanes and earthquakes, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other
criminal activities. Such events may result in a temporary decline in the
number of patients who seek clinical testing services. In addition, such events
may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive
materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services.

Adverse
results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an
adverse impact on our client base and reputation.

          We are
involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of
business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property,
professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from
governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers regarding billing
issues. Some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial
in amount and could divert management’s attention from operations. The
proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage
to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have
insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any
liability with respect to such claims. The ultimate outcome of the various
proceedings or claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
impact of such matters is determined or paid. 

26





CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT
FUTURE RESULTS




 


 


 


 




          Some
  statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements.
  Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely
  to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such
  as “may”, “believe”, “will”, “expect”, “project”, “estimate”,
“anticipate”,
  “plan” or “continue.” These forward-looking statements are based on our
  current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and
  uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual
  results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Investors
  are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when
  evaluating the information presented in this document. The following
  important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ
  materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in
  forward-looking statements:




 


 


 


 




 


(a)


Heightened
  competition from independent clinical testing companies, and from hospitals
  with respect to testing for non-patients and from physicians. 




 


 


 


 




 


(b)


Increased
  pricing pressure from customers and payers.




 


 


 


 




 


(c)


Impact of
  changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted
  or capitated fee arrangements. 




 


 


 


 




 


(d)


Adverse
  actions by government or other third-party payers, including unilateral
  reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an
  increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that
  involve aggressively priced capitated or fee for service payments by health
  insurers or other payers. 




 


 


 


 




 


(e)


The impact
  upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative
  expenses resulting from our compliance with Medicare and Medicaid
  administrative policies and requirements of third party payers. These
  include:




 


 


 


 




 


 


(1)


the
  requirements of Medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many
  commonly ordered tests and the possibility that third party payers will
  increasingly adopt similar requirements;




 


 


 


 




 


 


(2)


the policy
  of CMS to limit Medicare reimbursement for tests contained in automated
  chemistry panels to the amount that would have been paid if only the covered
  tests, determined on the basis of demonstrable “medical necessity,” had been
  ordered;




 


 


 


 




 


 


(3)


continued
  inconsistent practices among the different local carriers administering
  Medicare;




 


 


 


 




 


 


(4)


inability to
  obtain from patients an advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot
  be billed without prior receipt of the form; and




 


 


 


 




 


 


(5)


increased
  challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to
  healthcare insurers.




 


 


 


 




 


 (f)


Adverse
  results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private
  actions. These include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension
  of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid
  programs and/or criminal penalties. 




 


 


 


 




 


(g)


Failure to
  efficiently integrate acquired businesses, and to manage the costs related to
  any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management
  personnel. 




 


 


 


 




 


(h)


Denial of
  CLIA certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories
  under the CLIA standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the
  Medicare and Medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by
  federal, state and local agencies. 




 


 


 


 




 


(i)


Changes in
  federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in
  new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical
  laboratories or tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories,
  including regulation by the FDA.




 


 


 


 




 


(j)


Inability to
  achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. 




 


 


 


 




 


(k)


Inability to
  achieve additional benefits from our Six Sigma and efficiency initiatives.




 


 


 


 




 


(l)


Adverse
  publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us.




 


 


 


 




 


(m)


Computer or
  other IT system failures that affect our ability to perform tests, report
  test results or properly bill customers, including potential failures
  resulting from the standardization of our IT systems and other system
  conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic
  break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. 




 


 


 


 




 


(n)


Development
  of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical test
  medicine, including 




27







 


 


 


 




 


 


technology
  changes that lead to the development of more cost-effective tests such as (1)
  point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2)
  esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories
  or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of
  clinical laboratories.




 


 


 


 




 


(o)


Issuance of
  patents or other property rights to our competitors or others that could
  prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our
  tests or operate our business.




 


 


 


 




 


(p)


Development
  of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or
  usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets by
  competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position.




 


 


 


 




 


(q)


Regulatory
  delay or inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or
  to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests.




 


 


 


 




 


(r)


Inability to
  obtain or maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights protections
  of our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary
  rights.




 


 


 


 




 


(s)


Impact of
  any national healthcare information network and the adoption of standards for
  health information technology interoperability that are incompatible with
  existing software and hardware infrastructure requiring widespread
  replacement of systems and/or software.




 


 


 


 




 


(t)


Inability to
  promptly or properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments
  for services that we do bill. 




 


 


 


 




 


(u)


Changes in
  interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s
  and Moody’s Investor Services causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of
  and access to capital.




 


 


 


 




 


(v)


Inability to
  hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or
  more of our key senior management personnel.




 


 


 


 




 


(w)


Terrorist
  and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural
  disasters, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or
  our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us.




Item 1B