Item 1A. Risk Factors

          You
should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report,
including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our
securities. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional
risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also
negatively impact us. Our business, financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors.

          This
Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or
uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in
these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the
risks we face described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that
May Affect Future Results” on page 28.

Continued weakness in U.S., global, or
regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our businesses.

          The
economies of the United States and other regions of the world in which we do
business continue to experience significant weakness which, in the case of the
U.S., has resulted in significant unemployment and reduced economic activity.
Continued weakness or a further decline in economic conditions may adversely
affect demand for our services and products, thus reducing our revenue. These
conditions also could impair the ability of those with whom we do business to
satisfy their obligations to us.

The clinical testing business is highly
competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service
or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse
effect on our revenues and profitability.

          While
there has been significant consolidation in recent years in the clinical
testing business, it remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry.

          We
primarily compete with three types of clinical test providers:
hospital-affiliated laboratories, other commercial clinical laboratories and
physician-office laboratories. We also compete with anatomic pathology
practices and large physician group practices. Hospitals generally maintain
on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or
outpatient). In addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical
laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. Most physicians have
admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as part of their 

19



medical
practice and hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community
physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the
hospital’s laboratory. In addition, hospitals that own physician practices
generally require the practices to refer tests to the hospital’s laboratory. As
a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we
compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and
scope of service. Increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices
enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen
their competitive position. Our failure to provide a broad test menu or service
superior to hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have
a material adverse effect on our business.

          If
we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and
our revenues and profitability could be damaged.

U.S. healthcare reform legislation may result
in significant changes, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail
to adapt.

          Government oversight of and attention to the
healthcare industry in the United States is significant and increasing. In
March 2010, U.S. federal legislation was enacted to reform healthcare. The
legislation provides for reductions in the Medicare clinical laboratory fee
schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also includes a
productivity adjustment that reduces the CPI market basket update beginning in 2011.
The legislation imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain
medical devices in the United States, including those purchased and used by
laboratories, beginning in 2013. The legislation establishes the Independent
Payment Advisory Board, which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually
to submit proposals aimed at reducing Medicare cost growth while preserving
quality. These proposals automatically will be implemented unless Congress
enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. Further,
the legislation calls for a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation that
will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration
programs. The legislation provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including
the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on
coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and
other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and
regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help
cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The legislation also permits
the establishment of accountable care organizations, a new healthcare delivery
model. While the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry
is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and may result in significant change.
Our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on
our business.

FDA regulation of LDTs and clinical laboratories
may result in significant change, and our business could be adversely impacted
if we fail to adapt.

          During
2010, the FDA publicly announced that it has decided to exercise regulatory
authority over LDTs, and that it plans to issue guidance to the industry
regarding its regulatory approach. The FDA has indicated that it will use a
risk-based approach to regulation and will direct more resources to tests with
wider distribution and with the highest risk of injury, but that it will be sensitive
to the need to not adversely impact patient care or innovation. The FDA has not
announced a framework or timetable for implementing its new regulatory
approach. The regulatory approach adopted by the FDA may lead to an increased
regulatory burden, including additional costs and delays in introducing new
tests. While the ultimate impact of the
FDA’s approach is unknown, it may be extensive and may result in significant
change. Our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

Government payers, such as Medicare and
Medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of
healthcare services, including clinical test services.

          We
face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and reimbursement for
clinical testing services.

          From
time to time, Congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the
Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. In addition, CMS has adopted
policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. We
also provide physician services which are reimbursed by Medicare under a
physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. CMS
changes add to our costs by increasing complexity and administrative
requirements for billing. Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject
to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. The 2010
federal healthcare reform legislation includes further provisions that are
designed to control utilization and payment levels.

          In
addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to
expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare
beneficiaries, called “Medicare Advantage” programs, and has encouraged such
beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs.
There has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare
Advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. Also in
recent years, states have increasingly mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries
enroll in private managed care arrangements. The 2010 federal healthcare reform
legislation is intended to control the growth of Medicare Advantage programs,
encourage beneficiaries to switch back to traditional Medicare programs and
expand the eligibility for 

20



traditional
Medicaid programs. Recently, state budget pressures have encouraged states to
consider several courses that may impact our business, such as delaying
payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, service
coverage restrictions and imposing taxes on our services.

          From
time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding
can be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at
attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. If competitive
bidding were implemented on a regional or national basis for clinical testing,
it could materially adversely affect us.

          We
expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls
and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. These
efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse
impact on our business.

Healthcare plans have taken steps to control
the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical
test services.

          We
also face efforts by non-governmental third party payers, including healthcare
plans, to reduce utilization and reimbursement for clinical testing services.

          The
healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare
insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant
bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers,
including clinical testing providers. These healthcare plans, and independent
physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept
discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated
with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment
arrangements. In addition, some healthcare plans have been willing to limit the
PPO or POS laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain
improved fee-for-service pricing. There are also an increasing number of
patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that
involve greater patient cost-sharing.

          The
increased consolidation among healthcare plans also has increased the potential
adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer.
The 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes provisions, including
ones regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage
healthcare insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting.

          We
expect continuing efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent
cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services. These
efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and
policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a healthcare plan, may have
a material adverse effect on our business.

Business development activities are
inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may
be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse
effect on our business.

          We
plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business
development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, licensing, investments
and alliances. However, these plans are subject to the availability of
appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar
opportunities. Moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a
number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the
potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. The
success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and
capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills
contributed by our strategic partners. Further, disputes may arise with
strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests.

          Each
acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that was previously
operated independently and has different systems, processes, policies and
cultures. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the
diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of
businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and
systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation
and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in
retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse
effects on operating results. The process of combining companies may be
disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of
momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among
others:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 loss of key
 customers or employees; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 difficulty
 in standardizing information and other systems; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 difficulty
 in consolidating facilities and infrastructure;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 failure to
 maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our Company has
 historically provided;
 
 

21







 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 diversion of
 management’s attention from the day-to-day business of our Company as a
 result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties;
 and 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 the added
 costs of dealing with such disruptions.
 
 


          If
we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely
manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected.
Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations
of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be
able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such
integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner.

Our business could be negatively affected if
we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency.

          As
noted above, government payers and healthcare insurers have taken steps to
control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including
clinical testing services; such steps may continue. If we are unable to
continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our
profitability of these activities, our business could be negatively affected.

We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory
requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and
penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply.

          Our
business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws
and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal and state
levels), and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. While we
seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of
the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not
been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 billing and
 reimbursement of clinical tests;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 certification
 or licensure of clinical laboratories;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 the
 anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 the laws and
 regulations administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 the
 corporate practice of medicine; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 operational,
 personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing
 services are accurate, reliable and timely;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 physician
 fee splitting;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 relationships
 with physicians and hospitals; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 safety and
 health of laboratory employees; and 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 handling,
 transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous
 waste and radioactive materials.
 
 


          These
laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial,
regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make
changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We
may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any
other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our
products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we
fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we
could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation
in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses,
certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as
incur additional liabilities from third party claims. If any of the foregoing
were to occur, our reputation could be damaged, important business relationships
with third parties could be adversely affected and it could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

          We
regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from
governmental authorities. We also are subject from time to time to qui tam
claims brought by former employees or other “whistleblowers.” The federal
and state governments continue to strengthen their position and scrutiny over
healthcare fraud. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare
fraud and abuse provide federal and state enforcement personnel substantially
increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. The
government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount
of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our
products and services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a
non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of
investigations and related litigation can result in: 

22







 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 diversion of
 management time and attention; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 expenditure
 of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 limitations
 on our ability to continue some of our operations;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 enforcement
 actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims
 and damages;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 decreased
 demand for our services and products; and/or 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 injury to
 our reputation.
 
 


          Although
we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable
laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or
tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. Any noncompliance by us with
applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations. Moreover, even when an investigation is resolved
favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion
of management focus may be extensive.

          Changes
in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming
more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to
additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such
changes could require us to modify our business objectives and could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

Failure to timely or accurately bill for our
services could have a material adverse effect on our business.

          Billing
for clinical testing services is extremely complicated and is subject to
extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. Depending on
the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as
patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals and
employer groups. Changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity
and cost of our billing process. Additionally, auditing for compliance with
applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and
procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. Further,
our billing systems require significant technology investment and, as a result
of marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems.

          Missing
or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the
billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally
increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. We believe
that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack
of, or inaccurate, billing information. Failure to timely or correctly bill may
lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging
of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations
and cash flows. Failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing
government healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including: (1)
exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset
forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of
various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our
business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or cash flows.

Failure in our information technology
systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could
disrupt our operations and cause the loss of customers or business
opportunities.

          Information
technology (“IT”) systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our
business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer
service, logistics and management of medical data. Our success depends, in
part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems. IT
systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including
telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters.
Moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our IT systems may
be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar
disruptive problems. We also have taken precautionary measures to prevent
unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems. Nevertheless, we may
experience damages to our systems, and system failures and interruptions.

          In
addition, we are in the process of implementing standard laboratory information
and billing systems, which we expect will take several years to complete.
Failure to properly implement this standardization process could materially
adversely affect our business. During system conversions of this type, workflow
is re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system
capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. In addition,
the implementation process, including the transfer of databases and master
files to new data centers, presents significant conversion risks that need to
be managed carefully.

          If
we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of standard
laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. For
example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver
test results or perform or bill for tests in a timely manner. If our operations
are interrupted, it could 

23



adversely
affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and revenues.

Failure to develop, or acquire licenses for,
new tests, technology and services, could negatively impact our testing volume
and revenues.

          The
diagnostics testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product
introductions. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may
obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere
with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business
or increase our costs. In addition, they could introduce new tests that may
result in a decrease in the demand for our tests or cause us to reduce the
prices of our tests. Our success in continuing to introduce new tests,
technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and
improved technologies on favorable terms. We may be unable to develop or
introduce new tests. We also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable
licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield
commercially successful diagnostic tests. If we are unable to license these
testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may
increase as a result. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce,
or license, new tests, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing
business, our testing methods may become outdated when compared with our
competition and our testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely
affected.

We may be unable to obtain, maintain or
enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual
property litigation that could adversely impact our business.

          We
may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights
for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary
rights. In addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and
we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could
force us to do one or more of the following: 


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 cease
 developing, performing or selling products or services that incorporate the
 challenged intellectual property; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 obtain and
 pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property
 right; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 redesign or
 reengineer our tests;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 change our
 business processes; or 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 pay
 substantial damages, court costs and attorneys’ fees, including potentially
 increased damages for any infringement held to be willful.
 
 


The development of new, more cost-effective
tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, or the
internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact
our testing volume and revenues.

          Advances
in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can
be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory such as (1)
point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2)
esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or
(3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by
physicians in their offices. Although CLIA compliance costs make it cost
prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their
offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to
increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians.
Diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically
deemed to be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office
laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by
patients in their homes. Test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to
both physicians and patients of test kits approved by the FDA for point-of-care
testing or home use. Development of such technology and its use by our
customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and
negatively impact our revenues.

          Some
of our customers, such as hospitals and physicians, are internalizing tests
that we currently perform, including anatomic pathology tests. If our customers
continue to internalize tests that we currently perform and we do not develop
new or alternative tests attractive to our customers, the demand for our testing
services may be reduced and our revenues may be materially adversely impacted.

Our outstanding debt may impair our financial
and operating flexibility.

          As
of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $3.0 billion of debt outstanding.
Except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing
arrangements in place or available. Our debt agreements contain various
restrictive covenants. These restrictions could limit our ability to use
operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a
portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. We
have obtained ratings on our debt from Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s
Investor Services and Fitch Ratings. There can be no 

24



assurance that
any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a
rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that
rating agency’s judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the
rating, such as adverse changes in our Company or our industry, so warrant. If
such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving
credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan could increase.
Changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or
acceleration of any of our debt.

          We
or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our
ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to
generate cash in the future. If we incur additional debt, a greater portion of
our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we
do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may
need to seek additional financing. In that case, it may be more difficult, or
we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. As a
result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and
capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with
indebtedness.

Our ability to attract and retain qualified
employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so
may materially adversely affect our performance.

          Our
people are a critical resource. The supply of qualified personnel may be limited
and competition for qualified employees is strong. If we were to lose, or to
fail to attract and retain, key management personnel or qualified skilled
technical or professional employees at our clinical laboratories, research
centers or manufacturing facilities, our earnings and revenues could be
adversely affected. In addition, if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and
retain, skilled pathologists, particularly those with subspecialties, with
positive relationships with their respective local medical communities, our
earnings and revenues could be adversely affected.

Failure to establish, and perform to,
appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is
observed in the performance of our testing services and in the design,
manufacture and marketing of our products could adversely affect the results of
our operations and adversely impact our reputation.

          The
provision of clinical testing services, including anatomic pathology services,
and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic
products involve certain inherent risks. The services that we provide and the
products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide
information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore,
users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors
than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes.

          Manufacturing
or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure
of risks relating to the use of the products can lead to injury or other
adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to
our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and
could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market.
Any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that
could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of
our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against
us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new
product approvals.

          Similarly,
negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse
events. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for
acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital
employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We
are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our
reputation.

The failure of our IT systems to keep pace
with technological advances may significantly reduce our revenues or increase
our expenses.

          Public
and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology (“HCIT”)
standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the
electronic exchange of clinical information, including test orders and test
results, could require costly modifications to our existing HCIT systems. While
we do not expect HCIT standards to be adopted or implemented without adequate
time to comply, if we fail to adopt or delay in implementing HCIT standards, we
could lose customers and business opportunities.

Our operations and reputation may be impaired
if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies.

          In
our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient
data or personal information. If we do not adequately safeguard that
information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should
not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could
suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation.

25



We are subject to numerous political, legal,
operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which
could impact our business in many ways.

          Although
we conduct most of our business in the United States, our expanding
international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing
business in international markets. Depending on the market, these risks
include, without limitation:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 changes in
 the local economic environment; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 political
 instability; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 social
 changes; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 intellectual
 property legal protections and remedies; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 trade
 regulations;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 procedures
 and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and
 marketing of products and services; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 exchange
 controls; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 export
 controls; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 weak legal
 systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 changes in
 local laws or regulations; and 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 potentially
 longer payment and collection cycles.
 
 


          International
operations also require us to devote significant management resources to
implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to
overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures.

          We
expect to expand further our international operations, through acquisition or
otherwise, which would increase these risks. As a result of these risks, our
financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.

Our medical diagnostic products business is
subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply
with these regulations and to develop compliant diagnostics products.

          Our
medical diagnostic products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous
governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by
regulatory authorities outside the United States, including the European
Commission. The process of obtaining regulatory clearance or approval to market
a medical diagnostic product can be costly and time-consuming, and clearance or
approval for future products is never certain. Securing regulatory clearance or
approval of additional indications or uses of existing products is not
predictable. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain clearance or
approval for, future products, or new indications or uses, could result in
delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs.

          In
addition, no assurance can be given that we will remain in compliance with applicable
regulations once clearance or approval has been obtained for a product. These
requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing
practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarket reporting, including
adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns.
Our diagnostic product facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are
subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and
other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with applicable rules could
result in, among other things, substantial modifications to our business
practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of our products; a total
or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while we or
our suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability timely to obtain
future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of
current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt our
business and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, revenues,
profitability or financial condition.

Our efforts to develop commercially
successful medical diagnostic products may not succeed.

          We
may commit substantial efforts, funds and other resources to developing
commercially successful medical diagnostic products. A high rate of failure is
inherent in the development of new medical diagnostic products. There is no
assurance that our efforts to develop these products will be commercially
successful. Failure can occur at any point 

26



in the
development process, including after significant funds have been invested.

          Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may have only limited
commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve
positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals,
failure to achieve market adoption, limited scope of approved uses, excessive
costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual
property rights, or the infringement of intellectual property rights of others.
Even if we successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations
of our existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by newer products,
changing customer preferences or changing industry standards. Innovations may
not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things,
entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third party
reimbursement. We cannot state with certainty when or whether any of our
medical diagnostic products under development will be launched, whether we will
be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire products, or whether any
diagnostic products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch
successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause our
products to become obsolete.

Our operations may be adversely impacted by
the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health
pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities.

          Our
operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such
as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of
terrorism or other criminal activities. Such events may result in a temporary
decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our
employees’ ability to perform their job duties. In addition, such events may
temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials
from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services.

Our business could be adversely impacted by
CMS’ adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses.

          CMS
has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as ICD-10, which
significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. The new coding set is
currently required to be implemented by October 1, 2013. We may be required to
incur significant expense in implementing the new coding set, and if we do not
adequately implement it, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition,
if as a result of the new coding set physicians fail to provide appropriate
codes for desired tests, we may not be reimbursed for such tests.

Our business could be adversely impacted by CMS’
adoption of new coding for molecular genetic tests.

          In
October 2010, the American Medical Association CPT Editorial Panel approved 27
new analyte specific codes (and will consider additional codes in 2011) to
describe several molecular genetic tests
that currently require multiple CPT codes for billing purposes. The
new codes could replace the current codes for payers, including
Medicare, beginning January 1, 2012. Reimbursement levels for the new codes
have yet to be determined. If reimbursement levels for the new codes do not
recognize the value of the molecular genetic tests, our revenues and earnings
could be adversely impacted. 

Adverse results in material litigation could
have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and
reputation.

          We
are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of
business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property,
professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from
governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers regarding billing
issues. Some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial
in amount and could divert management’s attention from operations. The
proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage
to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have
insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any
liability with respect to such claims. The ultimate outcome of the various
proceedings or claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
impact of such matters is determined or paid.

If we fail to comply with the requirements of
our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to suspension or
termination from participation in federal healthcare programs and substantial
monetary penalties.

          As
part of a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and other federal
government agencies, in April 2009 we entered into a five-year Corporate
Integrity Agreement with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Office of Inspector General. If we fail to comply with our obligations under
the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be suspended or terminated from
participating in certain federal healthcare programs and subject to substantial
monetary penalties.

27



CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE
RESULTS

          Some
statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to
historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as
“may”, “believe”, “will”, “expect”, “project”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “plan”
or “continue.” These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans
and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that
could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ
materially from the forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to
unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information
presented in this document. The following important factors could cause our
actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted
or estimated by us in forward-looking statements:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (a)
 
 
 Heightened
 competition from commercial clinical testing companies, and from hospitals
 with respect to testing for non-patients and from physicians.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (b)
 
 
 Increased
 pricing pressure from customers and payers.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (c)
 
 
 A continued
 weakness in economic conditions.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (d)
 
 
 Impact of
 changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted
 or capitated fee arrangements.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (e)
 
 
 Adverse
 actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare
 reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the
 value and importance to healthcare of diagnostic testing, unilateral
 reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an
 increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that
 involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health
 insurers or other payers.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (f)
 
 
 The impact
 upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative
 expenses resulting from our compliance with Medicare and Medicaid
 administrative policies and requirements of third party payers. These
 include:
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 (1)
 
 
 the
 requirements of Medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many
 commonly ordered tests (and the transition to a new coding set) and the
 possibility that third party payers will increasingly adopt similar
 requirements;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 (2)
 
 
 continued
 inconsistent practices among the different local carriers administering
 Medicare;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 (3)
 
 
 inability to
 obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that
 cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form;
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 (4)
 
 
 increased
 challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health
 plans; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 (5)
 
 
 the impact
 of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the
 allowable number of test units; 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 (6)
 
 
 the impact
 of increased prior authorization programs for clinical testing; and
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 (7) 
 
 
 new rules
 regarding laboratory requisitions.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (g)
 
 
 Adverse
 results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private
 actions. These include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension
 of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid
 programs and/or criminal penalties.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (h)
 
 
 Failure to
 efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to
 any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management
 personnel.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (i)
 
 
 Denial,
 suspension or revocation of CLIA certification or other licenses for any of
 our clinical laboratories under the CLIA standards, revocation or suspension
 of the right to bill the Medicare and Medicaid programs or other adverse
 regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (j)
 
 
 Changes in
 federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in
 new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical
 laboratories or tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories,
 including regulation of laboratory services by the FDA.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (k)
 
 
 Inability to
 achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. 
 
 

28







 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (l)
 
 
 Inability to
 achieve additional benefits from our Six Sigma and efficiency initiatives. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (m)
 
 
 Adverse
 publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (n)
 
 
 Computer or
 other IT system failures that affect our ability to perform tests, report
 test results or properly bill customers, including potential failures
 resulting from the standardization of our IT systems and other system
 conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as
 electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (o)
 
 
 Development
 of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical test medicine,
 including technology changes that lead to the development of more
 cost-effective tests such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by
 physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric tests that can be performed by
 hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried
 out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (p)
 
 
 Negative
 developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that
 could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or
 sell our tests or operate our business. These include:
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 (1)
 
 
 Issuance of
 patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 (2)
 
 
 Inability to
 obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our
 products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (q)
 
 
 Development
 of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or
 usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets by
 competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (r)
 
 
 Regulatory
 delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed products,
 tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (s)
 
 
 Impact of
 any national healthcare information network or the adoption of standards for
 health information technology interoperability that are incompatible with
 existing software and hardware infrastructure requiring widespread
 replacement of systems and/or software.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (t)
 
 
 Inability to
 promptly or properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments
 for services that we do bill.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (u)
 
 
 Changes in
 interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s,
 Moody’s Investor Services or Fitch Ratings causing an unfavorable impact on
 our cost of and access to capital.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (v)
 
 
 Inability to
 hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or
 more of our key senior management personnel.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (w) 
 
 
 Terrorist
 and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural
 disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers,
 transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not
 adequately reimburse us.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (x)
 
 
 Difficulties
 and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment
 and/or marketing of new products or new uses of existing products.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (y)
 
 
 Failure to
 comply with the requirements of our Corporate Integrity Agreement that could
 subject us to suspension or termination from participation in federal
 healthcare programs and substantial monetary penalties.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (z)
 
 
 Failure to
 adapt to changes in the healthcare system and healthcare delivery stemming
 from the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation.
 
 


Item 1B