ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSDiscussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties we are or may become subject to, many of which are difficult to predict or beyond our control. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner.The homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn in recent years. Although industry conditions improved during fiscal 2012, the general U.S. economy remains weak. A subsequent deterioration in industry conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results.We experienced one of the most severe housing downturns in U.S. history from 2006 through 2011. During this downturn, we experienced significant reductions in our home sales and homebuilding revenues, and we incurred substantial asset impairments and write-offs. Our recent results and other national data indicate that the overall demand for new homes improved during fiscal 2012. However, both national new home sales and our company's home sales remain below historical levels due to the current weak U.S. economic conditions, the restrictive mortgage lending environment and variations in local housing market conditions. The U.S. economy could be negatively impacted in the short-term by potential changes in fiscal, tax and monetary policies currently under consideration by the federal government. Therefore, it remains uncertain whether homebuilding industry conditions will continue to improve, remain stable or deteriorate from current levels. A subsequent deterioration in industry conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and affected by changes in economic, real estate or other conditions that could adversely affect our business or financial results. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic and real estate conditions, such as:•employment levels;•availability of financing for homebuyers;•interest rates;•consumer confidence;•levels and prices of new homes for sale and alternatives to new homes, including foreclosed homes, homes held for sale by investors and speculators, other existing homes and rental properties;•demographic trends; and•housing demand.Adverse changes in these general and local economic conditions or deterioration in the broader economy could have a negative impact on our business or financial results. Also, changes in these economic conditions may affect some of our regions or markets more than others. If adverse conditions affect any of our larger markets, they could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other homebuilding companies.Weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires, volcanic activity, droughts, and floods, can harm our homebuilding business. These can delay home closings, adversely affect the cost or availability of materials or labor, or damage homes under construction. The climates and geology of many of the states in which we operate, including California, Florida, Texas and other coastal areas, where we have some of our larger operations, present increased risks of adverse weather or natural disasters.Deployments of U.S. military personnel to foreign regions, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or threats to national security and any corresponding response by the United States or others, or related domestic or international instability, may adversely affect general economic conditions or cause a slowdown of the economy.10Table of ContentsAs a result of the foregoing matters, potential customers may be less willing or able to buy our homes. In the future, our pricing and product strategies may also be limited by market conditions. We may be unable to change the mix of our home offerings, reduce the costs of the homes we build, offer more affordable homes or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways without adversely affecting our profit margins. In addition, cancellations of home sales contracts in backlog may increase if homebuyers choose to not honor their contracts due to any of the factors discussed above. Our financial services business is closely related to our homebuilding business, as it originates mortgage loans principally to purchasers of the homes we build. A decrease in the demand for our homes because of the foregoing matters will also adversely affect the financial results of this segment of our business. An increase in the default rate on the mortgages we originate may adversely affect our ability to sell the mortgages or the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages or may increase our recourse obligations for previous originations. We establish reserves related to mortgages we have sold; however, actual future obligations related to these mortgages could differ significantly from our currently estimated amounts. Constriction of the credit markets could limit our ability to access capital and increase our costs of capital. During the recent industry downturn we generated substantial operating cash flow, and we relied principally on our cash on hand to meet our working capital needs and repay outstanding indebtedness. During much of the downturn, the credit markets constricted and reduced some sources of liquidity that were previously available to us. There likely will be other periods in the future when financial market upheaval will limit our ability to access the public debt markets or obtain bank financing, or doing so will increase our cost of capital. We recently obtained a revolving credit facility, which provides committed loan financing for five years in an amount currently totaling $600 million. Also, our mortgage subsidiary, DHI Mortgage, uses a mortgage repurchase facility to finance many of the loans it originates. The mortgage repurchase facility must be renewed annually, and it currently expires in March 2013. Adverse changes in market conditions could make the renewal of these facilities more difficult or could result in an increase in the cost of these facilities or a decrease in their committed availability. Such changes affecting our mortgage repurchase facility may also make it more difficult or costly to sell the mortgages that we originate. We believe that our existing cash resources, our revolving credit facility and our mortgage repurchase facility provide sufficient liquidity to fund our near-term working capital needs and debt obligations. We regularly assess our projected capital requirements to fund future growth in our business, repay our longer-term debt obligations, and support our other general corporate and operational needs, and we regularly evaluate our opportunities to raise additional capital. As market conditions permit, we may issue new debt or equity securities through the public capital markets or obtain additional bank financing to fund our projected capital requirements or provide additional liquidity. Adverse changes in economic, homebuilding or capital market conditions could negatively impact our business, liquidity and financial results. Reductions in the availability of mortgage financing and the liquidity provided by government-sponsored enterprises, the effects of government programs, a decrease in our ability to sell mortgage loans on attractive terms or an increase in mortgage interest rates could adversely affect our business or financial results. During the last six years, the mortgage lending industry has experienced significant change and contraction. Credit requirements have tightened and investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities has been predominantly limited to securities backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. As a result, it is difficult for some potential buyers to finance the purchase of our homes. Further tightening of credit requirements could adversely affect our business or financial results. We believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae to the mortgage industry has been very important to the housing market. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have required substantial injections of capital from the federal government and may require additional government support in the future. There has been ongoing discussion by the government with regard to the long term structure and viability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These discussions include the downsizing of their portfolios as well as the tightening of guidelines for their loan products. In addition, increased lending volume and losses insured by the FHA have resulted in a reduction of its insurance fund. Any reduction in the availability of the financing or insuring provided by these institutions could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage availability and sales of new homes and mortgage loans. The FHA insures mortgage loans that generally have lower credit requirements and as a result, continue to be a particularly important source for financing the sale of our homes. In recent years, more restrictive guidelines have been placed on FHA insured loans, affecting minimum down payment and availability for condominium financing. 11Table of ContentsAdditional future restrictions may negatively affect the availability or affordability of FHA financing, which could adversely affect our ability to sell homes. While the use of down payment assistance programs by our homebuyers has decreased significantly, some of our customers still utilize 100% financing through programs offered by the VA and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). These government-sponsored loan programs are subject to changes in regulations, lending standards and government funding levels. There can be no assurances that these programs or other programs will continue to be available in our homebuilding markets or that they will be as attractive to our customers as the programs currently offered, which could negatively affect our sales. The mortgage loans originated by our financial services operations are generally sold to third-party purchasers. During fiscal 2012, the majority of our mortgage loans were sold to one major financial institution that provided the best pricing and execution relative to other available loan purchasers. On an ongoing basis, we seek to establish additional loan purchase arrangements with multiple institutions. If we are unable to sell mortgage loans to additional purchasers on attractive terms, our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans at competitive prices could be limited, which would negatively affect our profitability. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in the availability of mortgage products may make it more difficult for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. Mortgage rates are currently at historically low levels. If interest rates increase, the costs of owning a home will be affected and could result in a decline in the demand for our homes.The risks associated with our land and lot inventory could adversely affect our business or financial results. Inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. We have recently begun to increase our investments in land and lot inventories in response to increased demand for our homes. There are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land and if housing demand declines, we may own land or lots at a cost we will not be able to recover fully, or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. Also, there can be significant fluctuations in the value of our owned undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories related to changes in market conditions. As a result, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes or land for a lower profit margin or we may have to record inventory impairment charges on our developed and undeveloped land and lots. A significant deterioration in economic or homebuilding industry conditions may result in substantial inventory impairment charges.Homebuilding is subject to home warranty and construction defect claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. We are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of our homebuilding business. We rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain construction materials. Despite our detailed specifications and monitoring of the construction process, our subcontractors occasionally use improper construction processes or defective materials in the construction of our homes. When we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations. We spend significant resources to repair items in homes we have sold to fulfill the warranties we issued to our homebuyers. Additionally, we are subject to construction defect claims which can be costly to defend and resolve in the legal system. Warranty and construction defect matters can also result in negative publicity in the media and on the internet which can damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell homes.Based on the large number of homes we have sold over the years, our potential liabilities related to warranty and construction defect claims are significant. As a consequence, we maintain product liability insurance, and we obtain indemnities and certificates of insurance from subcontractors covering claims related to their workmanship and materials. We establish warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all of our future warranty and construction defect claims. Contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of product liability insurance for 12Table of Contentsconstruction defects is limited and costly. We have responded to increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly.Supply shortages and other risks related to acquiring land, building materials and skilled labor could increase our costs anddelay deliveries. The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced significant difficulties that can affect the cost or timing ofconstruction, including:•difficulty in acquiring land suitable for residential building at affordable prices in desirable locations;•shortages of qualified trades people;•reliance on local subcontractors, manufacturers and distributors who may be inadequately capitalized;•shortages of materials; and•volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs.These factors may cause us to take longer or incur more costs to build our homes and adversely affect our revenues and margins. If the recent increases in home sales continue or accelerate in future periods, the potential risk of shortages in residential lots, labor and materials available to the homebuilding industry could increase in some markets where we operate.We are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.We often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance or obligations under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, financial condition, past performance and other factors, including the capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. The ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds for construction and development activities. If we are unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted.Increases in the costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business or financial results. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes its income tax laws, as has been discussed from time to time, to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase for many of our potential customers. The loss or reduction of homeowner tax deductions, if such tax law changes were enacted without offsetting provisions, could adversely impact demand for and sales prices of new homes. In addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as experienced in some areas in response to reduced federal and state funding, could adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes.Governmental regulations and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results. We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect land development and home construction, including zoning, density restrictions, building design and building standards. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if approved at all. We are subject to determinations by these authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads or other local services. New housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. In addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control 13Table of Contentsinitiatives. Any of these can limit, delay or increase the costs of development or home construction. We are also subject to a significant number and variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, labor standards and the environment. The impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. These matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation, mitigation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our business that can be significant.The subcontractors we rely on to perform the actual construction of our homes are also subject to a significant number of local, state and federal laws and regulations, including laws involving matters that are not within our control. If our subcontractors fail to comply with all applicable laws, we can suffer reputational damage, and may be exposed to possible liability. We are also subject to an extensive number of laws and regulations because our common stock and debt securities are publicly traded in the capital markets. These regulations govern our communications with our shareholders and the capital markets, our financial statement disclosures and our legal processes, and they also impact the work required to be performed by our independent registered public accounting firm and our legal counsel. Changes in these laws and regulations, including the subsequent implementation of rules by the administering government authorities, can require us to incur additional compliance costs, and such costs can be significant.In August 2012, the SEC adopted a final rule on conflict minerals as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) which was signed into law in July 2010. The rule requires an entity to file a new form to publicly disclose its use of conflict minerals, defined as tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold, if these minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of products it manufactures. Additional reporting is required if it is determined that the conflict minerals were mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. This new rule will require us to perform due diligence to determine whether our suppliers use any of these materials in their production processes and the sources of such materials, which will increase our administrative costs. These new requirements could also adversely affect the sourcing, supply and costs of materials used in the construction of our homes.Governmental regulation of our financial services operations could adversely affect our business or financial results. Our financial services operations are subject to a significant number of federal, state and local laws and regulations. These include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs, compliance with consumer lending laws and other regulations governing disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures. Our financial services operations are subject to examination by federal, state and local government agencies. These laws, regulations and examinations may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes.  The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a number of new requirements relating to residential mortgage lending practices, many of which are to be developed further by rules enacted by the appropriate government agencies responsible for regulating the mortgage industry. Many of these rules have not yet been finalized or implemented. These include, among others, minimum standards for mortgages and lender practices in making mortgages, limitations on certain fees and incentive arrangements, retention of credit risk and remedies for borrowers in foreclosure proceedings. The effect of such provisions on our financial services business will depend on the rules that are ultimately enacted. Key decisions that have yet to be made concern the characteristics of mortgages that would be exempt from risk retention, how risk retention requirements will be implemented and how derivative trading will be impacted. These factors could restrict the availability of and increase the cost of mortgage credit in addition to increasing the general and administrative costs within our financial services operations. The turmoil caused by the significant number of defaults and resulting foreclosures during the recent downturn has encouraged consumer lawsuits and the investigation of financial services industry practices by governmental authorities. These investigations may include the examination of consumer lending practices, real estate settlement procedures, foreclosure and servicing policies or other practices in the financial services segments of homebuilding companies. These governmental inquiries could result in changes in regulations or homebuilding industry practices, and they could adversely affect the costs and potential profitability of homebuilding companies. Additionally, if pending legislation is enacted as currently proposed, 14Table of Contentsregulations that favor financial services businesses that are not affiliated with homebuilding companies will place our financial services business at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace, which would adversely affect its profitability.Our debt obligations and our ability to comply with related covenants, restrictions or limitations could adversely affect our financial condition. As of September 30, 2012, our consolidated debt was $2,493.1 million. We have $1,147.5 million principal amount of our debt maturing before the end of fiscal 2014, of which $500 million is in the form of convertible senior notes that will mature on May 15, 2014 and are convertible into approximately 38.3 million shares of our common stock at a price of $13.06 per share at maturity. The indentures governing our senior and convertible senior notes do not restrict the incurrence of future unsecured debt by us or our homebuilding subsidiaries or the incurrence of secured or unsecured debt by our financial services subsidiaries, and the agreement governing our revolving credit facility allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. Such instruments also permit us and our homebuilding subsidiaries to incur significant amounts of additional secured debt. Possible consequences. The amount and the maturities of our debt could have important consequences. For example, they could:•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payment of our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other operating or investing purposes;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the changes in our business;•limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements;•place us at a competitive disadvantage if we have more debt than some of our competitors; and•make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or general economic conditions.In addition, the magnitude of our debt and the restrictions imposed by the instruments governing these obligations expose us to additional risks, including:Dependence on future performance. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations and the financial covenants under our revolving credit facility will depend, in part, upon our future financial performance. Our future results are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our businesses are also affected by financial, political, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through the sale of debt or equity, the refinancing of debt or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations, because borrowings under our revolving credit facility and mortgage repurchase facility bear interest at floating rates. Revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility contains financial covenants requiring the maintenance of a minimum level of tangible net worth, a maximum allowable leverage ratio and a borrowing base restriction if our leverage ratio exceeds a certain level. A failure to comply with these requirements could allow the lending banks to terminate the availability of funds under the revolving credit facility or cause any outstanding borrowings to become due and payable prior to maturity. Any difficulty experienced in complying with these covenants could make renewal of the facility more difficult or costly.Mortgage repurchase facility and other restrictions. The mortgage repurchase facility for our mortgage subsidiary requires the maintenance of a minimum level of tangible net worth, a maximum allowable ratio of debt to tangible net worth and a minimum level of liquidity by our mortgage subsidiary. A failure to comply with these requirements could allow the lending bank to terminate the availability of funds to the mortgage subsidiary or cause its debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. Any difficulty experienced in complying with these covenants could make the renewal of the mortgage repurchase facility more difficult or costly. 15Table of ContentsIn addition, although our financial services business is conducted through subsidiaries that are not restricted by our indentures, the ability of our mortgage subsidiary to provide funds to our homebuilding operations would be restricted in the event such distribution of funds would cause an event of default under the mortgage repurchase facility or if an event of default had occurred under this facility. Moreover, our right to receive assets from the mortgage subsidiary upon its liquidation or recapitalization will be subject to the prior claims of its creditors. Any claims we may have to funds from this segment would be subordinate to subsidiary indebtedness to the extent of any security for such indebtedness and to any indebtedness otherwise recognized as senior to our claims. Changes in debt ratings. Our senior unsecured debt is currently rated at below investment grade. Any lowering of our debt ratings could make accessing the public capital markets or obtaining additional credit from banks more difficult and/or more expensive. Change of control purchase options and change of control default. If a change of control occurs as defined in the indentures governing $455.5 million principal amount of our senior notes as of September 30, 2012, we would be required to offer to purchase such notes at 101% of their principal amount, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon the occurrence of both a change of control and a ratings downgrade event, each as defined in the indenture governing $700 million principal amount of our senior notes as of September 30, 2012, we will be required in certain circumstances to offer to repurchase such notes at 101% of their principal amount, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, if any. If a fundamental change, including a change of control, occurs as defined in the indenture governing our convertible senior notes, which constituted $500 million principal amount as of September 30, 2012, we would be required to offer to purchase such notes at par, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Moreover, a change of control (as defined in the revolving credit facility) would constitute an event of default under the revolving credit facility, which could result in the acceleration of any borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility and the termination of the commitments thereunder. If more than $50 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility were accelerated and such acceleration were not rescinded within 30 days, an event of default would result under the indentures governing our senior notes, entitling holders of at least 25 percent in principal amount of the relevant series of notes then outstanding by notice to us and the trustee, to declare all such notes to be due and payable immediately. If purchase offers were required under the indentures for such notes or the borrowings under our revolving credit facility or senior notes were accelerated, we can give no assurance that we would have sufficient funds to pay the amounts that we would be required to purchase.Homebuilding and financial services are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. We compete with local, regional and national homebuilders, often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed by such homebuilders. We also compete with existing home sales, foreclosures and rental properties. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry can negatively impact our sales volumes, selling prices and incentive levels, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. Competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable prices or terms, or cause delays in the construction of our homes.Our financial services business competes with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage banks and other financial institutions, some of which are subject to fewer government regulations. Mortgage lenders who are subject to fewer regulations or have greater access to capital or different lending criteria may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers. Our homebuilding and financial services businesses compete with other companies, both from within and outside of these industries, to attract and retain highly skilled and experienced employees, managers and executives. Competition for the services of these individuals will likely increase as business conditions improve in the homebuilding and financial services industries or in the general economy. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees, managers or executives, our business could be adversely impacted. 16Table of ContentsWe cannot make any assurances that any future growth strategies will be successful or not expose us to additional risks. Although we have focused on increasing our market share through internal growth in recent years, we acquired the homebuilding operations of a small company in fiscal 2012 and may make strategic acquisitions of other homebuilding companies or their assets in the future. Successful strategic acquisitions require the integration of operations and management. Although we believe that we have been successful in the past, we can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions can result in the dilution of existing stockholders if we issue our common stock as consideration, or reduce our liquidity or increase our debt if we fund them with cash. In addition, acquisitions can expose us to valuation risks, including the risk of writing off goodwill or impairing inventory and other assets related to such acquisitions. The risk of goodwill and other asset impairments increases during a cyclical housing downturn when our profitability may decline, as evidenced by the goodwill and other asset impairment charges we recognized during the recent downturn. In addition, we may not be able to successfully implement our operating or internal growth strategies within our existing markets. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by significant inflation or deflation. Inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. In addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand. In a highly inflationary environment, depending on industry and other economic conditions, we may be precluded from raising home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which could reduce our profit margins. Moreover, with inflation, the costs of capital increase and the purchasing power of our cash resources can decline. Current or future efforts by the government to stimulate the economy may increase the risk of significant inflation and its adverse impact on our business or financial results. Alternatively, a significant period of deflation could cause a decrease in overall spending and borrowing levels. This could lead to a further deterioration in economic conditions, including an increase in the rate of unemployment. Deflation could also cause the value of our inventories to decline or reduce the value of existing homes below the related mortgage loan balance, which could potentially increase the supply of existing homes and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our deferred income tax asset may not be fully realizable. As of September 30, 2012, we had a deferred income tax asset, net of deferred tax liabilities, of $751.4 million, against which we provided a valuation allowance of $41.9 million. The realization of all or a portion of our deferred income tax asset is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the statutory carryforward periods and in the jurisdictions in which the related temporary differences become deductible. We have provided the valuation allowance against our net deferred income tax asset because it is more likely than not that a portion of our state net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized due to the more limited carryforward periods that exist in certain states. Our ability to utilize our net operating losses to reduce future income tax obligations would be limited if we experienced an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the rules, such an ownership change is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock within a rolling three-year period, as calculated in accordance with the rules. The rules generally operate by focusing on changes in ownership among stockholders considered by the rules as owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of the company and any change in ownership arising from new issuances of stock by the company. If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, both the amount of and our ability to use any of our net operating loss carryforwards or tax credit carryforwards at the time of ownership change would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. In addition, these limitations may affect the expiration date of any net operating loss carryforwards or tax credit carryforwards, and we may not be able to use them before they expire. This could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. We do not believe we have experienced such an ownership change as of September 30, 2012. However, the amount by which our ownership may change in the future is affected by purchases and sales of stock by 5% stockholders, new issuances of stock by us and the potential conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes and our decision as to whether to settle any such conversions completely or partially in stock. The accounting for deferred income taxes is based upon estimates of future results. Differences between the anticipated and actual outcomes of these future tax consequences could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Changes in tax laws also affect actual tax results and the valuation of deferred income tax assets over time. Specifically, a decrease in income tax rates would result in a decrease in our deferred tax assets. 17Table of ContentsInformation technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. We use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational and marketing activities and to maintain our business records. These information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced security breaches, cyber-attacks, significant systems failures and electrical outages in the past. A material network breach in the security of our information technology systems could include the theft of customer, employee or company data. In February 2012, we experienced a software security breach by unknown external sources in our Internet Loan Prequalification System, which could have resulted in some of our customers’ personal data being compromised. We investigated the breach with the assistance of information technology security experts, and we are working with local and federal law enforcement to aid in their investigation of the breach. Our investigations produced no evidence that any of our customers’ data was actually accessed or exported from our systems. A security breach such as the one we recently experienced or a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, adversely impact our sales and revenue and require us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve these kinds of issues. The release of confidential information as a result of a security breach may also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals or business partners, or by regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines, could have a significant negative impact on our business. We may also be required to incur significant costs to protect against damages caused by these information technology failures or security breaches in the future. We routinely utilize information technology security experts to assist us in our evaluations of the effectiveness of the security of our information technology systems, and we regularly enhance our security measures to protect our systems and data. However, we cannot provide assurances that a security breach, cyber-attack, data theft or other significant systems failures will not occur in the future, and such occurrences could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial position.18Table of ContentsITEM 1B