ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Discussion of our business and operations included in this
    annual report on
    Form 10-K
    should be read together with the risk factors set forth below.
    They describe various risks and uncertainties we are or may
    become subject to, many of which are difficult to predict or
    beyond our control. These risks and uncertainties, together with
    other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the
    potential to affect our business, financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material
    and adverse manner.


 



    The
    homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant downturn, and
    its duration and ultimate severity are uncertain. Continued
    weakness or further deterioration in industry conditions or in
    the broader economic conditions could have additional adverse
    effects on our business and financial results.


 


    The downturn in the homebuilding industry is in its fifth year,
    and it has become one of the most severe housing downturns in
    U.S. history. The significant declines in the demand for
    new homes, oversupply of homes on the market and reductions in
    the availability of financing for homebuyers that have marked
    the downturn are continuing. During the downturn, we have
    experienced material reductions in our home sales and
    homebuilding revenues, and we have incurred material asset
    impairments and write-offs.


 


    Our ability to respond to the downturn has been limited by
    adverse industry and economic conditions. The significant number
    of home mortgage foreclosures has increased supply and driven
    down prices, making the purchase of a foreclosed home an
    alternative to purchasing a new home as well as negatively
    affecting appraisal comparisons for mortgage financing.
    Homebuilders have responded to declining sales and increased
    cancellation rates with significant concessions. With the
    decline in the values of homes and the inability of some
    homeowners to make their mortgage payments, the credit markets
    have been significantly disrupted, putting strains on many
    households and businesses. In the face of these conditions, the
    overall economy has remained very weak, with high unemployment
    levels and substantially reduced consumer spending and
    confidence. As a result, demand for new homes remains at
    historically low levels.


 


    These challenging conditions are complex and interrelated. We
    cannot predict their duration or ultimate severity. Nor can we
    provide assurance that our responses to the homebuilding
    downturn or the government’s attempts to address the
    troubles in the overall economy will be successful.




    
    10



Table of Contents






    Constriction
    of the credit markets could limit our ability to access capital
    and increase our costs of capital.


 


    During the downturn in the homebuilding industry, we generated
    substantial operating cash flow, and we have relied principally
    on our cash on hand to meet our working capital needs and repay
    outstanding indebtedness. The downturn and the constriction of
    the credit markets have reduced some of the other sources of
    liquidity available to us. There likely will be periods when
    financial market upheaval will limit our ability to access the
    public debt markets or obtain bank financing, or doing so will
    increase our cost of capital.


 


    Our mortgage subsidiary, DHI Mortgage, uses a mortgage
    repurchase facility to finance many of the loans it originates.
    The facility must be renewed annually, and the current facility
    expires in March 2012. A continuation of current market
    conditions could make the renewal more difficult or could result
    in an increase in the cost of the facility or a decrease in its
    committed availability. Such conditions may also make it more
    difficult or costly to sell the mortgages that we originate.


 


    We believe we can meet our capital requirements in the next
    12 months with our existing cash resources. However, we can
    provide no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so,
    particularly if current industry or economic conditions continue
    or deteriorate further. The future effects on our business,
    liquidity and financial results of these conditions could be
    material and adverse, both in ways described above and in other
    ways that we do not currently foresee.


 


    We use letters of credit and surety bonds to secure our
    performance under various construction and land development
    agreements, escrow agreements, financial guarantees and other
    arrangements. Should our future performance or economic
    conditions make these more difficult to obtain or more costly,
    our business or financial results could be adversely affected.


 



    The
    reduction in availability of mortgage financing has adversely
    affected our business, and the duration and ultimate severity of
    the effects are uncertain.


 


    Over the last five fiscal years, the mortgage lending industry
    has experienced significant change and contraction. Credit
    requirements have tightened and investor demand for mortgage
    loans and mortgage-backed securities has been limited to
    securities backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. This
    has made it more difficult for many buyers to finance the
    purchase of our homes, thus reducing the pool of qualified
    homebuyers. These reductions in demand have adversely affected
    our business and financial results, and the duration and
    severity of these effects remain uncertain.


 


    We believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae, Freddie
    Mac and Ginnie Mae to the mortgage industry has been very
    important to the housing market. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have
    required substantial injections of capital from the federal
    government and may require additional government support in the
    future. In addition, increased lending volume and losses insured
    by the FHA have resulted in a reduction of its insurance fund.
    Any reduction in the availability of the financing provided by
    these institutions could adversely affect interest rates,
    mortgage availability and sales of new homes and mortgage loans.


 


    The FHA insures mortgage loans that generally have lower credit
    requirements and as a result, continue to be a particularly
    important source for financing the sale of our homes. In the
    last three years, more restrictive guidelines have been placed
    on FHA insured loans, affecting minimum down payment and
    availability for condominium financing. In the near future,
    further restrictions are expected on FHA insured loans,
    including but not limited to additional limitations on
    seller-paid closing costs and concessions. This or any other
    restriction may negatively affect the availability or
    affordability of FHA financing, which could adversely affect our
    ability to sell homes.


 


    While the use of down payment assistance programs by our
    homebuyers has decreased significantly, some of our customers
    still utilize 100% financing through programs offered by the VA
    and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). There can be
    no assurance that these programs or other programs will continue
    to be available or will be as attractive to our customers as the
    programs currently offered, which could negatively affect our
    sales.




    
    11



Table of Contents





    The mortgage loans originated by our financial services
    operation are sold to third-party purchasers. An entity which
    has historically purchased a substantial volume of mortgage
    loans from us has recently announced that they are exiting this
    line of business. If we are unable to sell to additional viable
    purchasers in the marketplace, our ability to originate and sell
    mortgage loans at competitive prices could be limited which
    would negatively affect our profitability.


 


    Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in
    the availability of mortgage products may make it more difficult
    for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who
    need financing.


 


    Mortgage rates are currently at historically low levels. If
    interest rates increase, the costs of owning a home will be
    affected and could result in further reductions in the demand
    for our homes.


 



    Our
    strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the
    homebuilding industry have had limited success, and the
    continued implementation of these and other strategies may not
    be successful.


 


    We have been successful in increasing our liquidity by
    generating positive operating cash flow and reducing our
    leverage during the downturn. However, during this time,
    notwithstanding our sales strategies, we continued to experience
    a low level of sales demand and an elevated rate of sales
    contract cancellations. We believe this is largely due to
    reduced homebuyer confidence, due principally to the weak
    economy and the continuing high level of unemployment. A more
    restrictive mortgage lending environment and the inability of
    some buyers to sell their existing homes have also impacted our
    sales orders. Many of these factors, which affect new sales and
    cancellation rates, are beyond our control. It is uncertain how
    long the low sales level and elevated level of cancellations
    will continue. If these conditions continue for a protracted
    period, it is not clear whether our strategies will succeed in
    maintaining or increasing our sales volume or our current
    margins.


 



    Our
    business and financial results could be adversely affected by
    significant inflation or deflation.


 


    Inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land,
    materials and labor. In the event of a return of significant
    inflation, we may seek to increase the sales prices of homes in
    order to maintain satisfactory margins. However, a continuation
    of the oversupply of homes relative to demand may make this
    difficult. In addition, significant inflation is often
    accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative
    impact on housing demand. In such an environment, we may not be
    able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate
    of inflation and our margins could decrease. Moreover, with
    inflation, the costs of capital increase and the purchasing
    power of our cash resources can decline. Current or future
    efforts by the government to stimulate the economy may increase
    the risk of significant inflation and its adverse impact on our
    business or financial results.


 


    Alternatively, a significant period of deflation could cause a
    decrease in overall spending and borrowing levels. This could
    lead to a further deterioration in economic conditions,
    including an increase in the rate of unemployment. Deflation
    could also cause the value of our inventories to decline or
    reduce the value of existing homes below the related mortgage
    loan balance, which could potentially increase the supply of
    existing homes and have a negative impact on our results of
    operations.


 



    The
    homebuilding industry is cyclical and affected by changes in
    general economic, real estate or other business conditions that
    could adversely affect our business or financial
    results.


 


    The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly
    affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as changes
    in general and local economic conditions, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    employment levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability of financing for homebuyers;




 



     
        • 

    
    interest rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer confidence;




 



     
        • 

    
    levels of new and existing homes for sale;







    
    12



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demographic trends; and




 



     
        • 

    
    housing demand.





 


    These may occur on a national scale, like the current downturn,
    or may affect some of our regions or markets more than others.
    When adverse conditions affect any of our larger markets, they
    could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some
    other homebuilding companies. Our operations in previously
    strong markets, particularly California, Florida, Nevada and
    Arizona, have more adversely affected our financial results than
    our other markets in the current downturn.


 


    An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, including foreclosed
    homes, homes held for sale by investors and speculators, other
    existing homes and rental properties, can also reduce our
    ability to sell new homes, depress new home prices and reduce
    our margins on the sales of new homes. High levels of
    foreclosures not only contribute to additional inventory
    available for sale, but also reduce appraisal valuations for new
    homes and the amount that can be financed, potentially resulting
    in lower sales prices.


 


    Weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes,
    tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires, volcanic activity, droughts,
    and floods, can harm our homebuilding business. These can delay
    home closings, adversely affect the cost or availability of
    materials or labor, or damage homes under construction. The
    climates and geology of many of the states in which we operate,
    including California, Florida and Texas, where we have some of
    our larger operations, present increased risks of adverse
    weather or natural disasters.


 


    Continued military deployments to foreign regions, terrorist
    attacks, other acts of violence or threats to national security
    and any corresponding response by the United States or others,
    or related domestic or international instability may adversely
    affect general economic conditions or cause a slowdown of the
    economy.


 


    As a result of the foregoing matters, potential customers may be
    less willing or able to buy our homes. Because of weak industry
    and economic conditions, we have generally not been able to
    increase the sale prices of our homes in recent years. In the
    future, our pricing strategies may also be limited by market
    conditions. We may be unable to further change the mix of our
    home offerings, reduce the costs of the homes we build or offer
    more affordable homes to maintain our margins or satisfactorily
    address changing market conditions in other ways. In addition,
    cancellations of home sales contracts in backlog may increase as
    homebuyers choose to not honor their contracts due to any of the
    factors discussed above.


 


    Our financial services business is closely related to our
    homebuilding business, as it originates mortgage loans
    principally to purchasers of the homes we build. A decrease in
    the demand for our homes because of the foregoing matters may
    also adversely affect the financial results of this segment of
    our business. An increase in the default rate on the mortgages
    we originate may adversely affect our ability to sell the
    mortgages or the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages
    or may increase our repurchase or other obligations for previous
    originations. We establish reserves related to mortgages we have
    sold; however, actual future obligations related to these
    mortgages could differ significantly from our currently
    estimated amounts.


 



    The
    risks associated with our land and lot inventory could adversely
    affect our business or financial results.


 


    Inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business.
    The risks inherent in controlling or purchasing and developing
    land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. Thus, we
    may have acquired options on or bought and developed land or
    lots at a cost we will not be able to recover fully, or on which
    we cannot build and sell homes profitably. As a result, our
    deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar
    contracts may be put at risk. The value of our owned undeveloped
    land, building lots and housing inventories can also fluctuate
    significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In
    addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can
    result in reduced margins or losses in a poorly performing
    community or market. During the current economic downturn, we
    have sold homes and land for lower margins or at a loss and we
    have recorded significant inventory impairment charges.


 


    Our levels of owned and controlled land and building lots are
    based on management’s expectations for future volume
    growth. In light of the much weaker market conditions
    encountered since fiscal 2006, we have





    
    13



Table of Contents





    significantly slowed our purchases of undeveloped land and our
    development spending on land we own. We made substantial land
    and lot sales in fiscal 2008. Throughout the downturn, we also
    terminated numerous land option contracts and wrote off earnest
    money deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to these option
    contracts. Because future market conditions are uncertain, we
    cannot provide assurance that these measures will be successful
    in managing our future inventory risks.


 



    Supply
    shortages and other risks related to demand for building
    materials and skilled labor could increase our costs and delay
    deliveries.


 


    The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced
    significant difficulties that can affect the cost or timing of
    construction, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in acquiring land suitable for residential building
    at affordable prices in locations where our potential customers
    want to live;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of qualified trades people;




 



     
        • 

    
    reliance on local subcontractors, manufacturers and distributors
    who may be inadequately capitalized;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of materials; and




 



     
        • 

    
    volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly
    increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are
    significant components of home construction costs.





 


    These factors may cause us to take longer or incur more costs to
    build our homes and adversely affect our revenues and margins.


 



    Increases
    in the costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers
    from buying our homes and adversely affect our business or
    financial results.


 


    Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage
    interest and real estate taxes, generally are deductible
    expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases
    state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under
    current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state
    government changes its income tax laws, as has been discussed
    from time to time, to eliminate or substantially modify these
    income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home
    would increase for many of our potential customers. The loss or
    reduction of homeowner tax deductions, if such tax law changes
    were enacted without offsetting provisions, would adversely
    impact demand for and sales prices of new homes.


 


    In addition, increases in property tax rates by local
    governmental authorities, as experienced in response to reduced
    federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of
    potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to
    purchase new homes.


 



    Governmental
    regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability
    of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely
    affect our business or financial results.


 


    We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect
    land development and home construction, including zoning,
    density restrictions, building design and building standards.
    These regulations often provide broad discretion to the
    administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we
    must meet prior to development or construction being approved,
    if approved at all. We are subject to determinations by these
    authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities,
    roads or other local services. New housing developments may also
    be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets
    and other public improvements. In addition, in many markets
    government authorities have implemented no growth or growth
    control initiatives. Any of these can limit, delay or increase
    the costs of development or home construction.


 


    We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal
    laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety and
    the environment. The impact of environmental laws varies
    depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining
    properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where
    undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available.
    These matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur





    
    14



Table of Contents





    substantial compliance, remediation, mitigation and other costs,
    and can prohibit or severely restrict development and
    homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or
    areas.


 



    Governmental
    regulation of our financial services operations could adversely
    affect our business or financial results.


 


    Our financial services operations are subject to numerous
    federal, state and local laws and regulations. These include
    eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan
    programs, compliance with consumer lending and similar
    requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions
    against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures.
    They may also subject our operations to examination by the
    applicable agencies. These factors may limit our ability to
    provide mortgage financing or title services to potential
    purchasers of our homes.


 


    In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
    Protection Act (H.R.4173) was signed into law. This legislation
    provides for a number of new requirements relating to
    residential mortgage lending practices, many of which are to be
    developed further by implementing rules. These include, among
    others, minimum standards for mortgages and lender practices in
    making mortgages, limitations on certain fees and incentive
    arrangements, retention of credit risk and remedies for
    borrowers in foreclosure proceedings. The effect of such
    provisions on our financial services business will depend on the
    rules that are ultimately enacted. Key decisions that have yet
    to be made concern the characteristics of mortgages that would
    be exempt from risk retention, how risk retention requirements
    will be implemented and how derivative trading will be impacted.
    These factors could restrict the availability of and increase
    the cost of mortgage credit in addition to increasing the
    general and administrative costs within our financial services
    operations.


 


    The turmoil caused by the increasing number of defaults and
    resulting foreclosures has encouraged consumer lawsuits and the
    investigation of financial services industry practices by
    governmental authorities. These investigations could include the
    examination of consumer lending practices, sales of mortgages to
    financial institutions and other investors, and current
    foreclosure processes or other practices in the financial
    services segments of homebuilding companies. We are unable to
    assess whether these governmental inquiries will result in
    changes in regulations, homebuilding industry practices or
    adversely affect the costs and potential profitability of
    homebuilding companies.


 



    Homebuilding
    is subject to home warranty and construction defect claims in
    the ordinary course of business that can be
    significant.


 


    As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and
    construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of
    business. As a consequence, we maintain product liability
    insurance, and we obtain indemnities and certificates of
    insurance from subcontractors covering claims related to their
    workmanship and materials. We establish warranty and other
    reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in
    our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated
    with the types of homes built. Because of the uncertainties
    inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our
    insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our
    reserves will be adequate to address all of our warranty and
    construction defect claims in the future. Contractual
    indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible
    for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims
    may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable
    coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the
    availability of product liability insurance for construction
    defects is currently limited and costly. We have responded to
    increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations in recent
    years by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim
    reserves. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be
    further restricted or become more costly.


 



    Our
    debt obligations could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    As of September 30, 2011, our consolidated debt was
    $1,704.6 million. As of September 30, 2011, other than
    the expiration of the mortgage repurchase facility in March
    2012, there are no scheduled maturities of principal on our
    outstanding public debt during the next 12 months. The
    indentures governing our senior and convertible senior notes do
    not restrict the incurrence of future unsecured debt, and they
    permit significant





    
    15



Table of Contents





    amounts of secured debt. We do not currently have a revolving
    credit facility for our homebuilding operations. If we choose to
    enter into a new line of credit agreement, it may limit the
    amount of debt we could incur.


 


    Possible Consequences.  The amount and the
    maturities of our debt could have important consequences. For
    example, they could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payment of our debt and reduce our ability to
    use our cash flow for other operating or investing purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the
    changes in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to obtain future financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service
    requirements or other requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt
    than some of our competitors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or general
    economic conditions.





 


    In addition, the magnitude of our debt and the restrictions
    imposed by the instruments governing these obligations expose us
    to additional risks, including:


 


    Dependence on Future Performance.  Our ability
    to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend, in
    part, upon our future financial performance. Our future results
    are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this
    report. These have been compounded by the current industry and
    economic conditions. Our revenues and earnings vary with the
    level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our
    businesses are also affected by financial, political, business
    and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The
    factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect
    our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through
    the sale of debt or equity, the refinancing of debt, or the sale
    of assets.


 


    Mortgage Repurchase Facility and Other
    Restrictions.  The mortgage repurchase facility
    for our mortgage subsidiary requires the maintenance of a
    minimum level of tangible net worth, a maximum allowable ratio
    of debt to tangible net worth and a minimum level of liquidity
    by our mortgage subsidiary. A failure to comply with these
    requirements could allow the lending bank to terminate the
    availability of funds to the financial services subsidiaries or
    cause their debt to become due and payable prior to maturity.
    Any difficulty experienced in complying with these covenants
    could make the renewal of the facility more difficult or costly.


 


    In addition, although our financial services business is
    conducted through subsidiaries that are not restricted by our
    indentures, the ability of our financial services subsidiaries
    to provide funds to our homebuilding operations is subject to
    restrictions in their mortgage repurchase facility. These funds
    would not be available to us upon the occurrence and during the
    continuance of defaults under this facility. Moreover, our right
    to receive assets from these subsidiaries upon their liquidation
    or recapitalization will be subject to the prior claims of the
    creditors of these subsidiaries. Any claims we may have to funds
    from this segment would be subordinate to subsidiary
    indebtedness to the extent of any security for such indebtedness
    and to any indebtedness otherwise recognized as senior to our
    claims.


 


    The indentures governing our senior notes impose restrictions on
    the creation of secured debt and liens.


 


    Changes in Debt Ratings.  Our senior unsecured
    debt is currently rated at below investment grade. Any lowering
    of our debt ratings could make entering into a new line of
    credit agreement or accessing the public capital markets more
    difficult
    and/or more
    expensive.


 


    Change of Control Purchase Options.  If a
    change of control occurs as defined in the indentures governing
    $455.5 million principal amount of our senior notes as of
    September 30, 2011, we would be required to offer to
    purchase these notes at 101% of their principal amount, together
    with all accrued and unpaid interest, if any. If a fundamental
    change, including a change of control, occurs as defined in the
    indenture governing our convertible senior notes, which
    constituted $500 million principal amount as of
    September 30, 2011, we would be required to offer to
    purchase these notes at par, together with all accrued





    
    16



Table of Contents





    and unpaid interest, if any. If purchase offers were required
    under the indentures for these notes, we can give no assurance
    that we would have sufficient funds to pay the amounts that we
    would be required to purchase.


 


    Potential Future Restrictions.  We do not
    currently have a revolving line of credit in place. However, if
    we decide to enter into a revolving credit agreement in the
    future, it is likely that we would become subject to further
    restrictions on our operations and activities.


 



    Homebuilding
    and financial services are very competitive industries, and
    competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or
    financial results.


 


    The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders
    compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable
    properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. We
    compete with other local, regional and national homebuilders,
    often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed
    by such homebuilders. We also compete with existing home sales,
    foreclosures and rental properties. The competitive conditions
    in the homebuilding industry can negatively impact our sales
    volumes, selling prices and incentive levels, reduce our profit
    margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or
    other assets. Competition can also hurt our ability to acquire
    suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable
    prices or terms, or cause delays in the construction of our
    homes.


 


    Our financial services business competes with other mortgage
    lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage banks
    and other financial institutions. Mortgage lenders with greater
    access to capital or different lending criteria may be able to
    offer more attractive financing to potential customers.


 


    Our homebuilding and financial services businesses compete with
    other companies, both from within and outside of these
    industries, to attract and retain highly skilled and experienced
    employees, managers and executives. Competition for the services
    of these individuals will likely increase substantially as
    business conditions begin to stabilize or improve in the
    homebuilding and financial services industries or in the general
    economy. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees,
    managers or executives, our business could be adversely impacted.


 



    We
    cannot make any assurances that any future growth strategies
    will be successful or not expose us to additional
    risks.


 


    Although we have focused on internal growth in recent years, we
    may in the future make strategic acquisitions of homebuilding
    companies or their assets. Successful strategic acquisitions
    require the integration of operations and management. Although
    we believe that we have been successful in the past, we can give
    no assurance that we would be able to successfully identify,
    acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions in the future.
    Acquisitions can result in the dilution of existing stockholders
    if we issue our common stock as consideration, or reduce our
    liquidity or increase our debt if we fund them with cash. The
    impact on liquidity may be increased because we do not currently
    have a revolving credit facility. In addition, acquisitions can
    expose us to valuation risks, including the risk of writing off
    goodwill or impairing inventory and other assets related to such
    acquisitions. The risk of goodwill and other asset impairments
    increases during a cyclical housing downturn when our
    profitability may decline, as evidenced by the goodwill and
    other asset impairment charges we recognized in recent years. In
    addition, we may not be able to successfully implement our
    operating or internal growth strategies within our existing
    markets. In the uncertain current market conditions, asset
    acquisitions involve a risk that the markets involved may
    subsequently deteriorate. Conversely, if we delay an acquisition
    until we believe the market uncertainties are resolved, the
    potential competitive advantages of the acquisition may be
    limited.


 



    We may
    not realize our deferred income tax asset.


 


    As of September 30, 2011, we have a net deferred income tax
    asset of $848.5 million, against which we have provided a
    valuation allowance of $848.5 million. The realization of
    all or a portion of our deferred income tax asset is dependent
    upon the generation of future taxable income during the
    statutory carryforward periods and in the jurisdictions in which
    the related temporary differences become deductible.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    The accounting for deferred income taxes is based upon estimates
    of future results. Differences between the anticipated and
    actual outcomes of these future tax consequences could have a
    material impact on our consolidated results of operations or
    financial position. Changes in tax laws also affect actual tax
    results and the valuation of deferred income tax assets over
    time.


 



    The
    utilization of our tax losses could be substantially limited if
    we experienced an ownership change as defined in the Internal
    Revenue Code.


 


    We have experienced continuing tax net operating losses through
    fiscal 2011 and have potential unrealized built-in losses. These
    tax net operating losses have the potential to reduce future
    income tax obligations if we realize taxable income in the
    future. However, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code
    contains rules that limit the ability of a company that
    undergoes an ownership change to utilize its net operating loss
    carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years
    after the ownership change. Under the rules, such an ownership
    change is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of
    its stock within a rolling three-year period, as calculated in
    accordance with the rules. The rules generally operate by
    focusing on changes in ownership among stockholders considered
    by the rules as owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the
    stock of the company and any change in ownership arising from
    new issuances of stock by the company.


 


    If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of
    Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving
    our common stock, both the amount of and our ability to use any
    of our net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit
    carryforwards or net unrealized built-in losses at the time of
    ownership change would be subject to the limitations of
    Section 382. In addition, these limitations may affect the
    expiration date of a portion of our built-in losses, any net
    operating loss carryforwards or tax credit carryforwards, and we
    may not be able to use them before they expire. This could
    adversely affect our financial position, results of operations
    and cash flow.


 


    We do not believe we have experienced such an ownership change
    as of September 30, 2011; however, the amount by which our
    ownership may change in the future is affected by purchases and
    sales of stock by 5% stockholders; the potential conversion of
    our outstanding convertible senior notes and our decision as to
    whether to settle any such conversions completely or partially
    in stock; and new issuances of stock by us.




    
    18



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1B