ITEM 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Discussion of our business and operations included in this
    annual report on
    Form 10-K
    should be read together with the risk factors set forth below.
    They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or
    may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with
    other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the
    potential to affect our business, financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material
    and adverse manner.


 



    The
    homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant downturn, and
    its duration and ultimate severity are uncertain. A continuation
    or further deterioration in industry conditions or in the
    broader economic conditions could have additional adverse
    effects on our operations and financial results.


 


    The downturn in the homebuilding industry is in its third year
    and it has become one of the most severe housing downturns in
    U.S. history. The significant declines in the demand for
    new homes, the significant oversupply of homes on the market and
    the significant reductions in the availability of financing for
    homebuyers that have marked the downturn are continuing. We have
    experienced material reductions in our home sales and
    homebuilding revenues, and we have incurred material inventory
    and goodwill impairments and other write-offs. Our gross margins
    have declined significantly, and we incurred substantial losses
    for our 2007 and 2008 fiscal years. It is not clear when these
    trends will reverse or when we will return to profitability.


 


    Our ability to respond to the downturn has been limited by
    adverse market and economic conditions. Recently, the growing
    number of home mortgage foreclosures has increased supply and
    driven down prices, making the purchase of a foreclosed home an
    attractive alternative to purchasing a new home. Homebuilders
    have responded to declining sales and increased cancellation
    rates with significant concessions, further adding to the price
    declines. With the decline in the values of homes and in the
    ability of homeowners to make their mortgage payments, the
    credit markets have been significantly disrupted, putting
    strains on many households and businesses. In the face of these
    conditions, fears of recession and the loss of jobs have
    increased, and consumer confidence has reached its lowest level
    in decades. As a result, the decision to buy a new home has



    
    10



Table of Contents




    become more difficult, and demand for new homes has declined
    significantly. Moreover, the government’s legislative and
    administrative measures aimed at restoring liquidity to the
    credit markets and providing relief to homeowners facing
    foreclosure have only recently begun. It is unclear whether
    these measures will effectively stabilize prices and home values
    or restore confidence and increase demand in the homebuilding
    industry.


 


    These challenging conditions are complex and interrelated. We
    cannot predict their duration or ultimate severity. Nor can we
    provide assurance that our responses to the downturn or the
    government’s attempts to address the troubles in the
    economy will be successful.


 



    The
    downturn in homebuilding and the continuation of the disruptions
    in the credit markets could limit our ability to access capital
    and increase our costs of capital.


 


    During this downturn in the homebuilding industry, we have
    relied principally on the positive operating cash flow we have
    generated to meet our working capital needs and repay
    outstanding indebtedness. We generated $1.88 billion and
    $1.36 billion in operating cash flow in fiscal years 2008
    and 2007, respectively. We anticipate significant positive
    operating cash flow for fiscal 2009, principally through the
    receipt of federal income tax refunds and from home and land
    sales, though at a reduced level. However, the downturn and the
    disruption in the credit markets have reduced other sources of
    liquidity available to us.


 


    In fiscal 2008, our senior debt ratings were lowered below
    investment grade by the three ratings agencies, and the terms of
    our revolving credit facility now restrict our future borrowings
    to borrowing base limitations. Though we had no cash borrowings
    outstanding under the facility at September 30, 2008, the
    borrowing base limitations currently have reduced availability
    under the facility to $52.8 million until we repay
    outstanding homebuilding debt at a faster pace than further
    inventory reductions, or the limitations are amended. We are
    currently exploring alternatives with regard to our revolving
    credit facility, which could potentially include an amendment to
    the current agreement, but consummating an amendment may be
    difficult in the current credit market. We believe that any
    amendment will require an increase in the costs of borrowing, a
    reduction in the overall credit commitment and possibly
    additional restrictions on us. We do not currently anticipate a
    need to borrow from the facility, and we plan to fund our
    short-term working capital needs and our fiscal 2009 debt
    maturities through existing cash resources and cash flows
    generated from operations during fiscal 2009.


 


    As of September 30, 2008, we had $549.7 million of
    senior notes that mature in January and February 2009. We have
    sufficient cash on hand to make these payments. However, current
    market conditions would significantly limit our ability to
    refinance this indebtedness if we chose to do so. Pricing in the
    public debt markets has increased substantially, and the
    indenture terms available in these markets are generally more
    restrictive than those in our current indentures. Moreover, our
    senior debt ratings, the impact of our recent results on
    measures used by debt investors and the uncertainties facing the
    homebuilding industry could reduce our ability to access these
    markets even if acceptable pricing or terms are available to
    other issuers. In addition, the significant decline in our stock
    price, the ongoing volatility in the stock markets and the
    reduction in our stockholders’ equity relative to our debt
    could also impede our access to the equity markets or increase
    the amount of dilution our stockholders would experience should
    we seek to raise capital through issuance of equity.


 


    Our financial services segment uses a $275 million mortgage
    repurchase facility to finance many of the loans it originates.
    The facility must be renewed annually, and the current facility
    expires in March 2009. A continuation of current market
    conditions could make the renewal more difficult or could result
    in an increase in the cost of the facility or a decrease in its
    committed availability. Such conditions may also make it more
    difficult or costly to sell the mortgages that we originate. We
    have reduced our mortgage products to only those we expect to be
    able to sell.


 


    While we believe we can meet our capital requirements from our
    cash resources, future cash flow and the sources of financing
    that we anticipate will be available to us, we can provide no
    assurance that we will continue to be able to do so,
    particularly if current market or economic conditions continue
    or deteriorate further. The future effects on our business,
    liquidity and financial results of these conditions could be
    material and adverse to us, both in ways described above and in
    other ways that we do not currently foresee.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    The
    reduction in availability of mortgage financing and the increase
    in mortgage interest rates have adversely affected our business,
    and the duration and ultimate severity of the effects are
    uncertain.


 


    Most of our customers finance their home purchases through
    lenders providing mortgage financing. Prior to the recent
    volatility in the financial markets, mortgage interest rates
    were at historical lows and a variety of mortgage products were
    available. As a result, homeownership became more accessible.
    The mortgage products available included features that allowed
    buyers to obtain financing for a significant portion, up to all,
    of the purchase price of the home, had very limited underwriting
    requirements or provided for lower initial monthly payments. As
    a result, more people were able to qualify for mortgage
    financing. Mortgage interest rates have increased, and the range
    of mortgage products to homebuyers has decreased from those
    previously available.


 


    During fiscal 2007 and 2008, the mortgage lending industry
    experienced significant instability, beginning with increased
    defaults on subprime loans and other nonconforming loans and
    compounded by expectations of increasing interest payment
    requirements and further defaults. This in turn resulted in a
    decline in the market value of many mortgage loans and related
    securities. Lenders, regulators and others questioned the
    adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for
    several loan products and programs offered in recent years.
    Credit requirements tightened, and investor demand for mortgage
    loans and mortgage-backed securities declined. The deterioration
    in credit quality has caused almost all lenders to eliminate
    subprime mortgages and most other loan products that are not
    eligible for sale to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or loans that do
    not meet Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Veterans
    Administration (VA) requirements. Fewer loan products, tighter
    loan qualifications and a reduced willingness of lenders to make
    loans in turn have made it more difficult for many buyers to
    finance the purchase of our homes. These factors have served to
    reduce the pool of qualified homebuyers and made it more
    difficult to sell to first time and
    move-up
    buyers which have long made up a substantial part of our
    customers. These reductions in demand have adversely affected
    our operations and financial results, and the duration and
    severity of the effects are uncertain.


 


    We believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie
    Mac to the mortgage industry has been very important to the
    housing market. These entities have recently required
    substantial injections of capital from the federal government.
    These injections have been accompanied by criticism that the
    pool of homebuyers these institutions seek to assist should be
    reduced. Any reduction in the availability of the financing
    provided by these institutions could adversely affect interest
    rates, mortgage availability and our sales of new homes and
    mortgage loans.


 


    In recent years a growing number of our homebuyers used down
    payment assistance programs, which allowed them to receive gift
    funds from non-profit corporations as a down payment.
    Homebuilders had been a source of funding for these programs.
    However, the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention
    Act of 2008 eliminated seller-funded down payment assistance on
    FHA-insured loans approved on or after October 1, 2008.
    With the elimination of these gift fund programs, we will seek
    other financing alternatives, and seek down payment programs for
    those customers who meet applicable guidelines. There can be no
    assurance, however, that any such alternative programs are
    available or as attractive to our customers as the programs
    previously offered, and our sales could suffer.


 


    Because of the decline in the availability of other mortgage
    products, FHA and VA mortgage financing support has become a
    more important factor in marketing our homes. The American
    Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008, however,
    includes a provision that increases a buyer’s down payment
    from at least 3.0% to at least 3.5% of the appraised value of
    the property on FHA insured loans. This down payment requirement
    may impact the ability of our customers that meet the FHA
    guidelines to obtain financing. Additionally, this limitation
    and other limitations or restrictions on the availability of FHA
    and VA financing could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage
    availability and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans.


 


    Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in
    interest rates and the availability of mortgage products may
    make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential
    buyers who need financing.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    The decreases in mortgage availability have also been reflected
    in higher mortgage interest rates. Despite recent rate cuts by
    the Federal Reserve, mortgage rates remain above their lows of
    the past few years and these interest rates may increase
    further. If these rates remain high or increase, the costs of
    owning a home will be affected and could result in further
    reductions in the demand for our homes.


 



    Our
    strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the
    homebuilding industry have had limited success, and the
    continued implementation of these and other strategies may not
    be successful.


 


    While we have been successful in generating positive operating
    cash flow and reducing our inventories in fiscal 2007 and 2008,
    we have done so at significantly reduced gross profit levels and
    have incurred significant asset impairment charges. These
    contributed to the net losses we recognized in fiscal 2007 and
    2008. Also, in fiscal 2007 and 2008, notwithstanding our sales
    strategies, we continued to experience an elevated rate of sales
    contract cancellations. We believe that the increase in the
    cancellation rate is largely due to a decrease in homebuyer
    confidence, due principally to continued price declines, the
    growing number of foreclosures and reduced consumer confidence.
    A more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the
    inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also
    impacted cancellations. Many of these factors, which affect new
    sales and cancellation rates, are beyond our control. It is
    uncertain how long the reduction in sales and the increased
    level of cancellations will continue.


 



    The
    homebuilding industry continues to be cyclical and affected by
    changes in general economic, real estate or other business
    conditions that could adversely affect our business or financial
    results.


 


    Cyclical Industry.  The homebuilding industry
    has been cyclical historically and continues to be significantly
    affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in
    general and local economic conditions, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    employment levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability of financing for homebuyers;




 



     
        • 

    
    interest rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer confidence;




 



     
        • 

    
    levels of new and existing homes for sale;




 



     
        • 

    
    demographic trends; and




 



     
        • 

    
    housing demand.





 


    These may occur on a national scale, like the current downturn,
    or may affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate
    more than others. When adverse conditions affect any of our
    larger markets, they could have a proportionately greater impact
    on us than on some other homebuilding companies. Our operations
    in previously strong markets, particularly California, Florida,
    Nevada and Arizona, where we have significant inventory, have
    more adversely affected our financial results than our other
    markets in the current downturn.


 


    An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, including foreclosed
    homes, homes held for sale by investors and speculators, other
    existing homes and rental properties, can also reduce our
    ability to sell new homes and depress new home prices and reduce
    our margins on the sales of new homes.


 


    Inventory Risks.  Inventory risks are
    substantial for our homebuilding business. The risks inherent in
    controlling or purchasing and developing land increase as
    consumer demand for housing decreases. Thus, we may have
    acquired options on or bought and developed land at a cost we
    will not be able to recover fully or on which we cannot build
    and sell homes profitably. Our deposits for building lots
    controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk.
    The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing
    inventories can also fluctuate significantly as a result of
    changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying
    costs can be significant and can result in reduced margins or
    losses in a poorly performing project or market. In the



    
    13



Table of Contents




    present weak market conditions, we have sold homes and land for
    lower margins or at a loss and we have recorded significant
    inventory impairment charges.


 


    Historically, our goals for years of supply for ownership and
    control of land and building lots were based on
    management’s expectations for future volume growth. In
    light of the much weaker market conditions encountered since
    fiscal 2006, we significantly slowed our purchases of land and
    lots and made substantial land and lot sales as part of our
    strategy to reduce our inventory to better match our reduced
    rate of production. We also terminated numerous land option
    contracts and wrote off earnest money deposits and
    pre-acquisition costs related to these option contracts. Because
    future market conditions are uncertain, we cannot provide
    assurance that these measures will be successful in managing our
    future inventory risks.


 


    Supply Risks.  The homebuilding industry has
    from time to time experienced significant difficulties that can
    affect the cost or timing of construction, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in acquiring land suitable for residential building
    at affordable prices in locations where our potential customers
    want to live;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of qualified trades people;




 



     
        • 

    
    reliance on local subcontractors, who may be inadequately
    capitalized;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of materials; and




 



     
        • 

    
    volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly
    increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are
    significant components of home construction costs.





 


    Risks from Nature.  Weather conditions and
    natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes,
    wildfires, volcanic activity, droughts, and floods, can harm our
    homebuilding business. These can delay home closings, adversely
    affect the cost or availability of materials or labor, or damage
    homes under construction. The climates and geology of many of
    the states in which we operate, including California, Florida
    and Texas, where we have some of our larger operations, present
    increased risks of adverse weather or natural disaster.


 


    Risks Related to National Security.  Continued
    military deployments in the Middle East and other overseas
    regions, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or threats to
    national security, and any corresponding response by the United
    States or others, or related domestic or international
    instability, may adversely affect general economic conditions or
    cause a slowdown of the economy.


 


    Consequences.  As a result of the foregoing
    matters, potential customers may be less able or willing to buy
    our homes, or we may take longer or incur more costs to build
    them. Because of current market conditions, we have not been
    able to recapture any increased costs by raising prices. In the
    future, our ability to do so may also be limited by market
    conditions or because we fix our prices in advance of delivery
    by signing home sales contracts. We may be unable to change the
    mix of our home offerings or the affordability of our homes to
    maintain our margins or satisfactorily address changing market
    conditions in other ways. In addition, cancellations of home
    sales contracts in backlog may increase as homebuyers cancel or
    do not honor their contracts.


 


    Our financial services business is closely related to our
    homebuilding business, as it originates mortgage loans
    principally to purchasers of the homes we build. A decrease in
    the demand for our homes because of the foregoing matters may
    also adversely affect the financial results of this segment of
    our business. An increase in the default rate on the mortgages
    we originate may adversely affect our ability to sell the
    mortgages or the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages
    or may increase our repurchase obligations for previous
    originations.


 



    Increases
    in the costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers
    from buying our homes and adversely affect our business or our
    financial results.


 


    Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage
    interest and real estate taxes, generally are deductible
    expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases
    state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under
    current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state
    government changes its income tax laws, as has been discussed,
    to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax
    deductions, the



    
    14



Table of Contents




    after-tax cost of owning a new home could increase for many of
    our potential customers. The resulting loss or reduction of
    homeowner tax deductions, if such tax law changes were enacted
    without offsetting provisions, could adversely impact demand for
    and sales prices of new homes.


 


    In addition, increases in property tax rates by local
    governmental authorities, as experienced in response to reduced
    federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of
    potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to
    purchase new homes.


 



    Governmental
    regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability
    of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely
    affect our business or financial results.


 


    We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect
    land development and home construction, including zoning,
    density restrictions, building design and building standards.
    These regulations often provide broad discretion to the
    administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we
    must meet prior to being approved, if approved at all. We are
    subject to determinations by these authorities as to the
    adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads or other local
    services. New housing developments may also be subject to
    various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public
    improvements. In addition, in many markets government
    authorities have implemented no growth or growth control
    initiatives. Any of these can limit, delay or increase the costs
    of development or home construction.


 


    We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal
    laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety and
    the environment. The impact of environmental laws varies
    depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining
    properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where
    undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available.
    These matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur
    substantial compliance, remediation, mitigation and other costs,
    and can prohibit or severely restrict development and
    homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or
    areas.


 



    Governmental
    regulation of our financial services operations could adversely
    affect our business or financial results.


 


    Our financial services operations are subject to numerous
    federal, state and local laws and regulations. These include
    eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan
    programs, compliance with consumer lending and similar
    requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions
    against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures.
    They may also subject our operations to examination by the
    applicable agencies. These factors may limit our ability to
    provide mortgage financing or title services to potential
    purchasers of our homes.


 


    In November 2008, HUD issued a final rule modifying certain
    aspects of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. The rule
    is scheduled to become effective in January 2009. As part of the
    changes, new limitations were placed on non-settlement service
    providers, such as homebuilders, from providing incentives tied
    to the use of affiliated settlement service providers. The new
    rule does not prevent settlement service providers from offering
    discounts or incentives, however this change could negatively
    impact the number of loans, closings and profitability of our
    financial services entities.


 


    The turmoil caused by the increasing number of defaults in
    subprime and other loans has encouraged the investigation of
    financial services industry practices by governmental
    authorities. These have only recently begun, and they could
    include the examination of consumer lending practices, sales of
    mortgages to financial institutions and other investors and the
    practices in the financial services segments of homebuilding
    companies. We are unable to assess whether these governmental
    inquiries will result in changes in government regulation,
    homebuilding industry practices or adversely affect the costs or
    potential profitability of homebuilding companies.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Our
    substantial debt could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    We have a significant amount of debt. As of September 30,
    2008, our consolidated debt was $3,748.4 million. As of
    September 30, 2008, the scheduled maturities of principal
    on our outstanding debt for the subsequent 12 months
    totaled $780.9 million.


 


    Possible Consequences.  The amount and the
    maturities of our debt could have important consequences. For
    example, they could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payment of our debt and reduce our ability to
    use our cash flow for other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the
    changes in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to obtain future financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service
    requirements or other requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt
    than some of our competitors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or general
    economic conditions.





 


    Dependence on Future Performance.  Our ability
    to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend, in
    part, upon our future financial performance. Our future results
    are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this
    report. These have been compounded by the current industry and
    economic conditions. Our revenues and earnings vary with the
    level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our
    businesses are also affected by financial, political, business
    and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The
    factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect
    our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through
    the sale of debt or equity, the refinancing of debt, or the sale
    of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our
    ability to meet our debt service obligations, because borrowings
    under our credit facilities bear interest at floating rates.


 


    Credit Facility and Other Restrictions.  Our
    revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on our operations
    and activities by requiring us to maintain certain levels of
    leverage, tangible net worth and components of inventory. If we
    do not maintain the requisite levels, we may not be able to pay
    dividends or available financing could be reduced or terminated.
    Also, in the current conditions, the margins by which we have
    met the financial covenants in our revolving credit facility
    have been reduced. If they are further reduced significantly in
    the future, we or our lenders may seek to negotiate revised
    terms for the facility that could increase the cost, reduce the
    availability or change other conditions of the facility. In
    addition, the indentures governing our senior notes and senior
    subordinated notes impose restrictions on the creation of
    secured debt.


 


    The mortgage repurchase facility for our financial services
    subsidiaries also requires the maintenance of minimum levels of
    tangible net worth, ratio of debt to tangible net worth and net
    income by our financial services subsidiaries. A failure to
    comply with these requirements could allow the lending banks to
    terminate the availability of funds to the financial services
    subsidiaries or cause their debt to become due and payable prior
    to maturity.


 


    Changes in Debt Ratings.  In fiscal 2008, all
    three of the agencies that rate our senior unsecured debt
    lowered our ratings to a level below investment grade, and two
    of the agencies lowered it even further during the year. Because
    we no longer maintain our investment grade credit ratings from
    at least two of these agencies, credit under our revolving
    credit facility is currently limited to specified percentages of
    unencumbered inventory and the amount of other senior unsecured
    indebtedness. Additionally, we are now subject to limitation on
    the number of unsold homes and the amount of developed lots and
    lots under development included in inventory. The cost of such
    capital has increased and could increase more with further
    lowering of our debt ratings. The further lowering of our debt
    ratings could also make accessing the public capital markets
    more difficult and expensive.


 


    Change of Control Purchase Options.  If a
    change of control occurs as defined in the indentures governing
    many series of our senior and senior subordinated notes, which
    constituted $1.6 billion principal amount in the aggregate
    as of September 30, 2008, we would be required to offer to
    purchase such notes at



    
    16



Table of Contents




    101% of their principal amount, together with all accrued and
    unpaid interest, if any. Moreover, a change of control as
    defined in our credit facilities may also result in the
    acceleration of our revolving credit facility or our financial
    services facility. If purchase offers were required under the
    indentures for these notes or these facilities were accelerated,
    we can give no assurance that we would have sufficient funds to
    pay the amounts that we would be required to purchase or repay.
    At September 30, 2008, we did not have sufficient funds
    available to purchase or pay all of such outstanding debt upon a
    change of control.


 


    Impact of Financial Services Debt.  Our
    financial services business is conducted through subsidiaries
    that are not restricted by our indentures or revolving credit
    facility. The ability of our financial services subsidiaries to
    provide funds to our homebuilding operations, however, is
    subject to restrictions in their mortgage repurchase facility.
    These funds would not be available to us upon the occurrence and
    during the continuance of defaults under this facility.
    Moreover, our right to receive assets from these subsidiaries
    upon liquidation or recapitalization will be subject to the
    prior claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. Any claims
    we may have to funds from this segment would be subordinate to
    subsidiary indebtedness to the extent of any security for such
    indebtedness and to any indebtedness otherwise recognized as
    senior to our claims.


 



    Failure
    to comply with certain financial tests or meet ratios contained
    in our credit facilities could preclude the payment of
    dividends, impose restrictions on our business, capital
    resources or other activities or otherwise adversely affect
    us.


 


    Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain
    financial covenants based on leverage, tangible net worth and
    components of inventory. The facility also includes a borrowing
    base requirement that is currently in effect which limits
    availability based upon certain levels of inventory and the
    amount of other senior unsecured indebtedness. If we do not
    maintain the requisite covenants, we may not be able to pay
    dividends or available financing could be terminated. The
    borrowing base limitation currently in effect limits
    availability under the facility to $52.8 million until we
    repay outstanding homebuilding debt at a faster pace than
    further inventory reductions, or the limitations are amended. In
    addition, if non-compliance with these covenants were to result
    in an event of default, the lenders could cease any further
    funding under the facility, declare any outstanding amounts due
    and payable and require us to provide cash as collateral for any
    outstanding letters of credit not already collateralized. The
    lenders could also seek to renegotiate the terms of the facility
    or impose further restrictions on our ability to pay dividends,
    obtain other financing or engage in other activities.


 


    In addition, our mortgage subsidiary’s mortgage repurchase
    facility contains financial covenants applicable to that
    subsidiary. If our mortgage subsidiary does not comply with
    those covenants and that results in an event of default, the
    counterparties could cease further purchases under the facility
    and declare any outstanding amounts due and payable. The
    counterparties could also seek to renegotiate the terms of the
    facility, and the renewal of the facility could be more
    difficult.


 



    Homebuilding
    and financial services are very competitive, and competitive
    conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial
    results.


 


    The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders
    compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable
    properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. We
    compete with other local, regional and national homebuilders,
    often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed
    by such homebuilders. We also compete with existing home sales,
    foreclosures and rental properties. The competitive conditions
    in the homebuilding industry can result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    lower sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower selling prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased selling incentives;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower profit margins;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairments in the value of inventory, goodwill and other assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in effecting our strategies to reduce inventory;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in acquiring suitable land, raw materials, and
    skilled labor at acceptable prices; or




 



     
        • 

    
    delays in construction of our homes.






    
    17



Table of Contents



 


    Our financial services business competes with other mortgage
    lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage banks
    and other financial institutions. Mortgage lenders with greater
    access to capital or different lending criteria may be able to
    offer more attractive financing to potential customers.


 


    When we are affected by these competitive conditions, our
    business and financial results could be adversely affected. In
    the current downturn in the homebuilding industry, the reactions
    of our competitors may have reduced the effectiveness of our
    efforts to achieve pricing stability and reduce our inventory
    levels.


 



    We
    cannot make any assurances that any future growth strategies
    will be successful.


 


    Although we focused on internal growth in recent years before
    the downturn in the homebuilding industry, we may make strategic
    acquisitions of homebuilding companies or their assets in the
    future. Successful strategic acquisitions can require the
    integration of operations and management and other efforts to
    realize the benefits that may be available. Although we believe
    that we have been successful in doing so in the past, we can
    give no assurance that we would be able to identify, acquire and
    integrate successfully strategic acquisitions in the future.
    Acquisitions can result in the dilution of existing stockholders
    if we issue our common stock as consideration or reduce our
    liquidity or increase our debt if we fund them with cash. In
    addition, acquisitions can expose us to valuation risks,
    including the risk of writing off goodwill related to such
    acquisitions based on the subsequent results of the operating
    segments to which the acquired businesses were assigned. The
    risk of write-offs related to goodwill impairment increases
    during a cyclical housing downturn when profitability of our
    operating segments may decline, as evidenced by the goodwill
    impairment charges we recognized in fiscal 2007 and 2008.
    Moreover, we may not be able to implement successfully our
    operating and any future growth strategies within our existing
    markets.


 



    We may
    not realize our deferred income tax asset.


 


    As of September 30, 2008, we have a deferred income tax
    asset of $213.5 million which is net of a valuation
    allowance of $961.3 million. The ultimate realization of
    the deferred income tax asset is dependent upon the taxable
    income available in current statutory carryback periods,
    reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax
    planning strategies and our ability to generate taxable income
    within the statutory carryforward periods. Based on our
    assessment, including the implementation of certain tax planning
    strategies, the realization of approximately $961.3 million
    of our deferred income tax asset is dependent upon the
    generation of future taxable income during the statutory
    carryforward periods in which the related temporary differences
    become deductible. The use of net operating loss carryforwards
    is also subject to limitations should there be more than a 50%
    change in ownership of our common stock within a three-year
    period as measured under the applicable tax regulations. The
    remaining deferred income tax asset of $213.5 million for
    which there are no valuation allowances relate to amounts that
    are expected to be primarily realized through net operating loss
    carrybacks to tax year 2007.


 


    The accounting for deferred income taxes is based upon an
    estimate of future results, and the valuation allowance may be
    increased or decreased as conditions change or if we are unable
    to implement certain tax planning strategies. Differences
    between the anticipated and actual outcomes of these future tax
    consequences could have a material impact on our consolidated
    results of operations or financial position. Changes in tax laws
    could also affect actual tax results and the valuation of
    deferred income tax assets over time.


 



    Homebuilding
    is subject to home warranty and construction defect claims in
    the ordinary course of business that can be
    significant.


 


    As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and
    construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of
    business. As a consequence, we maintain product liability
    insurance, obtain indemnities and certificates of insurance from
    subcontractors generally covering claims related to workmanship
    and materials, and create warranty and other reserves for the
    homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and
    our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types
    of homes built. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these
    matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance
    coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will
    be adequate to address all of our warranty and construction
    defect claims in the future. Contractual indemnities can be
    difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable
    self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be
    covered by insurance or may exceed applicable



    
    18



Table of Contents




    coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the
    availability of product liability insurance for construction
    defects is currently limited and costly. We have responded to
    increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations in recent
    years by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim
    reserves. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be
    further restricted or become more costly.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B