ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Discussion of our business and operations included in this
    annual report on
    Form 10-K
    should be read together with the risk factors set forth below.
    They describe various risks and uncertainties we are or may
    become subject to, many of which are difficult to predict or
    beyond our control. These risks and uncertainties, together with
    other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the
    potential to affect our business, financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material
    and adverse manner.


 



    The
    homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant downturn, and
    its duration and ultimate severity are uncertain. A continuation
    or further deterioration in industry conditions or in the
    broader economic conditions could have additional adverse
    effects on our business and financial results.


 


    The downturn in the homebuilding industry is in its fourth year,
    and it has become one of the most severe housing downturns in
    U.S. history. The significant declines in the demand for
    new homes, the significant oversupply of homes on the market and
    the significant reductions in the availability of financing for
    homebuyers that have marked the downturn are continuing. We have
    experienced material reductions in our





    
    10



Table of Contents





    home sales and homebuilding revenues, and we have incurred
    material inventory and goodwill impairments and other
    write-offs. It is not clear when these trends will reverse or
    when we will return to profitability.


 


    Our ability to respond to the downturn has been limited by
    adverse industry and economic conditions. The significant amount
    of home mortgage foreclosures has increased supply and driven
    down prices, making the purchase of a foreclosed home an
    attractive alternative to purchasing a new home. Homebuilders
    have responded to declining sales and increased cancellation
    rates with significant concessions, further adding to the price
    declines. With the decline in the values of homes and in the
    ability of some homeowners to make their mortgage payments, the
    credit markets have been significantly disrupted, putting
    strains on many households and businesses. In the face of these
    conditions, the overall economy has weakened significantly, with
    high unemployment levels and substantially reduced consumer
    spending and confidence. As a result, demand for new homes
    remains at historically low levels.


 


    These challenging conditions are complex and interrelated. We
    cannot predict their duration or ultimate severity. Nor can we
    provide assurance that our responses to the homebuilding
    downturn or the government’s attempts to address the
    troubles in the overall economy will be successful.
    Additionally, we cannot predict the timing or effect of the
    winding down or possible withdrawal of government intervention
    or support.


 



    The
    continuing constriction of the credit markets could limit our
    ability to access capital and increase our costs of
    capital.


 


    During this downturn in the homebuilding industry, we have
    relied principally on the positive operating cash flow we have
    generated to meet our working capital needs and repay
    outstanding indebtedness. We generated substantial operating
    cash flow during this time. However, the downturn and the
    constriction of the credit markets have reduced the other
    sources of liquidity available to us and increased our costs of
    capital.


 


    In May 2009, we voluntarily terminated our $1.65 billion
    unsecured revolving credit facility. Although we had no cash
    borrowings outstanding under the facility during fiscal 2009,
    the borrowing base limitations applicable to the facility had
    reduced availability significantly, and we believed that seeking
    an amendment to the facility for relief from these limitations
    would have increased the costs of borrowing, reduced the overall
    credit commitment available under the facility and possibly
    involved additional restrictions on us. We have since relied on
    short-term arrangements with some of the lenders for the letters
    of credit we require in our business. A new line of credit,
    should we decide to pursue one, may be difficult to obtain on
    favorable terms in the current circumstances of our business and
    the overall economy. It would also likely involve additional
    financing costs and restrictions on our business. Not having a
    line in place could reduce our flexibility in responding to or
    taking advantage of changing conditions in the homebuilding
    industry or require us to use our own cash resources in doing so.


 


    Our financial services segment uses a $100 million mortgage
    repurchase facility to finance many of the loans it originates.
    The facility must be renewed annually, and the current facility
    expires in March 2010. A continuation of current market
    conditions could make the renewal more difficult or could result
    in an increase in the cost of the facility or a decrease in its
    committed availability. Such conditions may also make it more
    difficult or costly to sell the mortgages that we originate.


 


    As of September 30, 2009, we had $308.4 million of
    debt maturing in the next 12 months. We believe we can meet
    these and our other capital requirements with our existing cash
    resources and future cash flows and, if required, other sources
    of financing that we anticipate will be available to us.
    However, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to be
    able to do so, particularly if current industry or economic
    conditions continue or deteriorate further. The future effects
    on our business, liquidity and financial results of these
    conditions could be material and adverse, both in ways described
    above and in other ways that we do not currently foresee.


 


    We use letters of credit and surety bonds to secure our
    performance under various construction and land development
    agreements, escrow agreements, financial guarantees and other
    arrangements. Should our future performance or economic
    conditions make these more difficult to obtain or more costly,
    our business or financial results could be adversely affected.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    The
    reduction in availability of mortgage financing has adversely
    affected our business, and the duration and ultimate severity of
    the effects are uncertain.


 


    During the last three fiscal years, the mortgage lending
    industry has experienced significant instability, beginning with
    increased defaults on subprime loans and other nonconforming
    loans and compounded by expectations of increasing interest
    payment requirements and further defaults. This in turn resulted
    in a decline in the market value of many mortgage loans and
    related securities. Lenders, regulators and others questioned
    the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements
    for several loan products and programs offered in recent years.
    Credit requirements tightened, and investor demand for mortgage
    loans and mortgage-backed securities declined. The deterioration
    in credit quality has caused almost all lenders to eliminate
    subprime mortgages and most other loan products that are not
    eligible for sale to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or loans that do
    not meet FHA and VA requirements. Fewer loan products, tighter
    loan qualifications and a reduced willingness of lenders to make
    loans in turn have made it more difficult for many buyers to
    finance the purchase of our homes. These factors have served to
    reduce the pool of qualified homebuyers and made it more
    difficult to sell to first-time and
    move-up
    buyers which have long made up a substantial part of our
    customers. These reductions in demand have adversely affected
    our business and financial results, and the duration and
    severity of the effects are uncertain.


 


    We believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie
    Mac to the mortgage industry has been very important to the
    housing market. These entities have required substantial
    injections of capital from the federal government and may
    require additional government support in the future. Any
    reduction in the availability of the financing provided by these
    institutions could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage
    availability and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans.


 


    We believe that the purchases of mortgage-backed securities by
    the Federal Reserve System (the Fed) have helped to keep
    mortgage interest rates low during much of fiscal 2009. The Fed
    has announced their intention to end these purchases in early
    2010. This action will likely lead to higher mortgage interest
    rates which would adversely impact our sales of homes.


 


    Because of the decline in the availability of other mortgage
    products, FHA and VA mortgage financing support has become a
    more important factor in marketing our homes. The American
    Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008, however,
    increased a buyer’s down payment requirement for FHA
    insured loans. Additionally, under revised guidelines currently
    projected to become effective in December 2009, guidelines on
    FHA insured loans on condominiums will become significantly more
    restrictive. In addition, increased demands on the FHA have
    resulted in a reduction of its cash reserves. These factors or
    further increases in down payment requirements or limitations or
    restrictions on the availability of FHA and VA financing support
    could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage availability and
    our sales of new homes and mortgage loans.


 


    In recent years many of our homebuyers used down payment
    assistance programs, which allowed them to receive gift funds
    from non-profit corporations as a down payment. Homebuilders had
    been a source of funding for these programs. However, the
    American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008
    eliminated seller-funded down payment assistance on FHA-insured
    loans approved on or after October 1, 2008. With the
    elimination of these gift fund programs, these customers have
    been required to seek other down payment programs or other
    sources for 100% financing, such as that offered by the United
    States Department of Agriculture (USDA). There can be no
    assurance that such alternative programs will continue to be
    available or will be as attractive to our customers as the
    programs previously offered, which could cause our sales to
    suffer.


 


    In February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
    2009 was enacted into law. This legislation included a federal
    tax credit for qualified first-time homebuyers purchasing a
    principal residence on or after January 1, 2009 and before
    December 1, 2009. In November 2009, this credit was
    expanded to be available to more homebuyers and extended until
    June 2010. Our sales in future periods may be adversely affected
    when this tax credit expires.




    
    12



Table of Contents





    Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in
    the availability of mortgage products may make it harder for
    them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need
    financing.


 


    If interest rates increase, the costs of owning a home will be
    affected and could result in further reductions in the demand
    for our homes.


 


    In addition, the recently proposed Restoring American Financial
    Stability Act of 2009 contains provisions that require companies
    that sell products like mortgage-backed securities to retain at
    least 10% of the credit risk of the underlying assets. If this
    or other attempts to impose more risk on mortgage securitizers
    are enacted, the pricing and availability of mortgage products
    our customers rely on to purchase our homes may be adversely
    affected. Similarly, to the extent any future legislation
    attempts to enact credit risk retention requirements on mortgage
    originators, the risk profile of our financial services business
    and its support of our homebuilding business could be adversely
    affected.


 



    Our
    strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the
    homebuilding industry have had limited success, and the
    continued implementation of these and other strategies may not
    be successful.


 


    While we have been successful in generating positive operating
    cash flow and reducing our inventories in the last three fiscal
    years, we have done so at significantly reduced gross profit
    levels and have incurred significant asset impairment charges.
    These contributed to the net losses we recognized during these
    periods. Also, during this time, notwithstanding our sales
    strategies, we continued to experience an elevated rate of sales
    contract cancellations. We believe that the increase in the
    cancellation rate is largely due to reduced homebuyer
    confidence, due principally to continued price declines, the
    growing number of foreclosures and continuing job losses in the
    economy. A more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the
    inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also
    impacted cancellations. Many of these factors, which affect new
    sales and cancellation rates, are beyond our control. It is
    uncertain how long the reduction in sales and the increased
    level of cancellations will continue. If these conditions
    continue for a protracted period, it is not clear whether our
    strategies will succeed in maintaining or increasing our sales
    volume or our current margins.


 



    A
    return of inflation could adversely affect our business and
    financial results, particularly in a period of oversupply of
    homes.


 


    Inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land,
    materials and labor. In the event of a return of inflation, we
    may seek to increase the sales prices of homes in order to
    maintain satisfactory margins. However, a continuation of the
    oversupply of homes relative to demand may make this difficult.
    In addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest
    rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand. In such
    an environment, we may not be able to raise home prices
    sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our
    margins could decrease. Moreover, with inflation, the costs of
    capital increase, and the purchasing power of our cash resources
    can decline. Current or future efforts by the government to
    stimulate the economy may increase the risk of significant
    inflation and its adverse impact on our business or financial
    results.


 



    The
    homebuilding industry is cyclical and affected by changes in
    general economic, real estate or other business conditions that
    could adversely affect our business or financial
    results.


 


    The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly
    affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in
    general and local economic conditions, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    employment levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability of financing for homebuyers;




 



     
        • 

    
    interest rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer confidence;




 



     
        • 

    
    levels of new and existing homes for sale;




 



     
        • 

    
    demographic trends; and




 



     
        • 

    
    housing demand.







    
    13



Table of Contents




 


    These may occur on a national scale, like the current downturn,
    or may affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate
    more than others. When adverse conditions affect any of our
    larger markets, they could have a proportionately greater impact
    on us than on some other homebuilding companies. Our operations
    in previously strong markets, particularly California, Florida,
    Nevada and Arizona, have more adversely affected our financial
    results than our other markets in the current downturn.


 


    An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, including foreclosed
    homes, homes held for sale by investors and speculators, other
    existing homes and rental properties, can also reduce our
    ability to sell new homes and depress new home prices and reduce
    our margins on the sales of new homes. High levels of
    foreclosures not only contribute to additional inventory
    available for sale, but also reduce appraisal valuations for new
    homes, potentially resulting in lower sales prices.


 


    Weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes,
    tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires, volcanic activity, droughts,
    and floods, can harm our homebuilding business. These can delay
    home closings, adversely affect the cost or availability of
    materials or labor, or damage homes under construction. The
    climates and geology of many of the states in which we operate,
    including California, Florida and Texas, where we have some of
    our larger operations, present increased risks of adverse
    weather or natural disasters in part because of their cyclically
    recurring nature there.


 


    Continued military deployments in the Middle East and other
    overseas regions, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or
    threats to national security, and any corresponding response by
    the United States or others, or related domestic or
    international instability, may adversely affect general economic
    conditions or cause a slowdown of the economy.


 


    As a result of the foregoing matters, potential customers may be
    less willing or able to buy our homes. Because of current
    industry and economic conditions, we have not been able to
    increase the sale prices of our homes. In the future, our
    pricing strategies may also be limited by market conditions. We
    may be unable to change the mix of our home offerings, reduce
    the costs of the homes we build or offer more affordable homes
    to maintain our margins or satisfactorily address changing
    market conditions in other ways. In addition, cancellations of
    home sales contracts in backlog may increase as homebuyers
    choose to not honor their contracts.


 


    Our financial services business is closely related to our
    homebuilding business, as it originates mortgage loans
    principally to purchasers of the homes we build. A decrease in
    the demand for our homes because of the foregoing matters may
    also adversely affect the financial results of this segment of
    our business. An increase in the default rate on the mortgages
    we originate may adversely affect our ability to sell the
    mortgages or the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages
    or may increase our repurchase or other obligations for previous
    originations. During fiscal 2009 we increased our reserves
    related to mortgages we have sold. Because of the uncertainties
    inherent to these matters, actual future obligations could
    differ significantly from our currently estimated amounts.


 



    The
    risks associated with our land and lot inventory could adversely
    affect our business or financial results.


 


    Inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business.
    The risks inherent in controlling or purchasing and developing
    land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. Thus, we
    may have acquired options on or bought and developed land at a
    cost we will not be able to recover fully or on which we cannot
    build and sell homes profitably. Our deposits for building lots
    controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk.
    The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing
    inventories can also fluctuate significantly as a result of
    changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying
    costs can be significant and can result in reduced margins or
    losses in a poorly performing community or market. In the
    present weak market conditions, we have sold homes and land for
    lower margins or at a loss and we have recorded significant
    inventory impairment charges.


 


    Historically, our goals for years of supply for ownership and
    control of land and building lots were based on
    management’s expectations for future volume growth. In
    light of the much weaker market conditions encountered since
    fiscal 2006, we significantly slowed our purchases of
    undeveloped land and our





    
    14



Table of Contents





    development spending on land we own and made substantial land
    and lot sales as part of our strategy to reduce our inventory to
    better match our reduced rate of production. We also terminated
    numerous land option contracts and wrote off earnest money
    deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to these option
    contracts. Because future market conditions are uncertain, we
    cannot provide assurance that these measures will be successful
    in managing our future inventory risks. Our flexibility in
    responding to changes in market conditions may have been reduced
    as the amount of our land and lot positions controlled by option
    and similar contracts has declined.


 



    Supply
    shortages and other risks related to demand for building
    materials and skilled labor could increase our costs and delay
    deliveries.


 


    The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced
    significant difficulties that can affect the cost or timing of
    construction, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in acquiring land suitable for residential building
    at affordable prices in locations where our potential customers
    want to live;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of qualified trades people;




 



     
        • 

    
    reliance on local subcontractors, manufacturers and distributors
    who may be inadequately capitalized;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of materials; and




 



     
        • 

    
    volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly
    increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are
    significant components of home construction costs.





 


    These may cause us to take longer or incur more costs to build
    our homes and adversely affect our revenues and margins.


 



    Increases
    in the costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers
    from buying our homes and adversely affect our business or
    financial results.


 


    Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage
    interest and real estate taxes, generally are deductible
    expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases
    state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under
    current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state
    government changes its income tax laws, as has been discussed
    from time to time, to eliminate or substantially modify these
    income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home
    would increase for many of our potential customers. The
    resulting loss or reduction of homeowner tax deductions, if such
    tax law changes were enacted without offsetting provisions,
    would adversely impact demand for and sales prices of new homes.


 


    In addition, increases in property tax rates by local
    governmental authorities, as experienced in response to reduced
    federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of
    potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to
    purchase new homes.


 



    Governmental
    regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability
    of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely
    affect our business or financial results.


 


    We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect
    land development and home construction, including zoning,
    density restrictions, building design and building standards.
    These regulations often provide broad discretion to the
    administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we
    must meet prior to being approved, if approved at all. We are
    subject to determinations by these authorities as to the
    adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads or other local
    services. New housing developments may also be subject to
    various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public
    improvements. In addition, in many markets government
    authorities have implemented no growth or growth control
    initiatives. Any of these can limit, delay or increase the costs
    of development or home construction.


 


    We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal
    laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety and
    the environment. The impact of environmental laws varies
    depending upon the prior uses of





    
    15



Table of Contents





    the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in
    areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable
    alternatives are less available. These matters may result in
    delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance,
    remediation, mitigation and other costs, and can prohibit or
    severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in
    environmentally sensitive regions or areas.


 



    Governmental
    regulation of our financial services operations could adversely
    affect our business or financial results.


 


    Our financial services operations are subject to numerous
    federal, state and local laws and regulations. These include
    eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan
    programs, compliance with consumer lending and similar
    requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions
    against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures.
    They may also subject our operations to examination by the
    applicable agencies. These factors may limit our ability to
    provide mortgage financing or title services to potential
    purchasers of our homes.


 


    The turmoil caused by the increasing number of defaults in
    subprime and other mortgages has encouraged consumer lawsuits
    and the investigation of financial services industry practices
    by governmental authorities. These investigations could include
    the examination of consumer lending practices, sales of
    mortgages to financial institutions and other investors and the
    practices in the financial services segments of homebuilding
    companies. We are unable to assess whether these governmental
    inquiries will result in changes in government regulation,
    homebuilding industry practices or adversely affect the costs or
    potential profitability of homebuilding companies.


 



    Homebuilding
    is subject to home warranty and construction defect claims in
    the ordinary course of business that can be
    significant.


 


    As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and
    construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of
    business. As a consequence, we maintain product liability
    insurance, obtain indemnities and certificates of insurance from
    subcontractors generally covering claims related to workmanship
    and materials, and create warranty and other reserves for the
    homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and
    our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types
    of homes built. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these
    matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance
    coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will
    be adequate to address all of our warranty and construction
    defect claims in the future. Contractual indemnities can be
    difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable
    self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be
    covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits.
    Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of
    product liability insurance for construction defects is
    currently limited and costly. We have responded to increases in
    insurance costs and coverage limitations in recent years by
    increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. There
    can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted
    or become more costly.


 



    Our
    substantial debt could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    We have a significant amount of debt. As of September 30,
    2009, our consolidated debt was $3,277.3 million. As of
    September 30, 2009, the scheduled maturities of principal
    on our outstanding debt for the subsequent 12 months
    totaled $308.4 million. The indentures from our senior,
    senior convertible and senior subordinated notes do not restrict
    the incurrence of future unsecured debt, and they permit
    significant amounts of secured debt. We do not currently have a
    revolving credit facility for our homebuilding operations. If we
    choose to enter into a new line of credit agreement, it may
    limit the amount of debt we could incur.


 


    Possible Consequences.  The amount and the
    maturities of our debt could have important consequences. For
    example, they could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payment of our debt and reduce our ability to
    use our cash flow for other operating or investing purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the
    changes in our business;







    
    16



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to obtain future financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service
    requirements or other requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt
    than some of our competitors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or general
    economic conditions.





 


    Dependence on Future Performance.  Our ability
    to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend, in
    part, upon our future financial performance. Our future results
    are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this
    report. These have been compounded by the current industry and
    economic conditions. Our revenues and earnings vary with the
    level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our
    businesses are also affected by financial, political, business
    and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The
    factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect
    our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through
    the sale of debt or equity, the refinancing of debt, or the sale
    of assets.


 


    Mortgage Repurchase Facility and Other
    Restrictions.  The mortgage repurchase facility
    for our financial services subsidiaries requires the maintenance
    of a minimum level of tangible net worth, a maximum allowable
    ratio of debt to tangible net worth and a minimum level of
    liquidity by our financial services subsidiaries. A failure to
    comply with these requirements could allow the lending bank to
    terminate the availability of funds to the financial services
    subsidiaries or cause their debt to become due and payable prior
    to maturity. Any difficulty experienced in complying with these
    covenants could make the renewal of the facility more difficult
    or costly.


 


    In addition, the indentures governing our senior notes and
    senior subordinated notes impose restrictions on the creation of
    secured debt and liens.


 


    As a result of terminating our revolving credit facility, we are
    no longer subject to the restrictions on our operations and
    activities that it imposed on us. However, if we decide to enter
    into another revolving credit agreement, it is likely that we
    will again become subject to these types of provisions, which
    may be more restrictive than those found in our previous
    facility.


 


    Changes in Debt Ratings.  In fiscal 2008, all
    three of the agencies that rate our senior unsecured debt
    lowered our ratings to a level below investment grade, and these
    agencies have since lowered our ratings even further. The cost
    of debt capital has increased and could increase more with
    further lowering of our debt ratings. The further lowering of
    our debt ratings could also make accessing the public capital
    markets more difficult and expensive.


 


    Change of Control Purchase Options.  If a
    change of control occurs as defined in the indentures governing
    many series of our senior and senior subordinated notes, which
    constituted $1.0 billion principal amount in the aggregate
    as of September 30, 2009, we would be required to offer to
    purchase these notes at 101% of their principal amount, together
    with all accrued and unpaid interest, if any. If a fundamental
    change, including a change of control, occurs as defined in the
    indenture governing our convertible senior notes, which
    constituted $500 million principal amount as of
    September 30, 2009, we would be required to offer to
    purchase these notes at par, together with all accrued and
    unpaid interest, if any. If purchase offers were required under
    the indentures for these notes, we can give no assurance that we
    would have sufficient funds to pay the amounts that we would be
    required to purchase.


 


    Impact of Financial Services Debt.  Our
    financial services business is conducted through subsidiaries
    that are not restricted by our indentures. The ability of our
    financial services subsidiaries to provide funds to our
    homebuilding operations, however, is subject to restrictions in
    their mortgage repurchase facility. These funds would not be
    available to us upon the occurrence and during the continuance
    of defaults under this facility. Moreover, our right to receive
    assets from these subsidiaries upon liquidation or
    recapitalization will be subject to the prior claims of the
    creditors of these subsidiaries. Any claims we may have to funds
    from this segment would be subordinate to subsidiary
    indebtedness to the extent of any security for such indebtedness
    and to any indebtedness otherwise recognized as senior to our
    claims.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    Homebuilding
    and financial services are very competitive, and competitive
    conditions could adversely affect our business or financial
    results.


 


    The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders
    compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable
    properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. We
    compete with other local, regional and national homebuilders,
    often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed
    by such homebuilders. We also compete with existing home sales,
    foreclosures and rental properties. The competitive conditions
    in the homebuilding industry can result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    lower sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower selling prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased selling incentives;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower profit margins;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairments in the value of inventory, goodwill and other assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in acquiring suitable land, raw materials, and
    skilled labor at acceptable prices or terms; or




 



     
        • 

    
    delays in construction of our homes.





 


    Our financial services business competes with other mortgage
    lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage banks
    and other financial institutions. Mortgage lenders with greater
    access to capital or different lending criteria may be able to
    offer more attractive financing to potential customers.


 


    When we are affected by these competitive conditions, our
    business and financial results could be adversely affected. In
    the current downturn in the homebuilding industry, the reactions
    of our competitors may have reduced the effectiveness of our
    efforts to achieve pricing stability and reduce our inventory
    levels.


 



    We
    cannot make any assurances that any future growth strategies
    will be successful or not expose us to additional
    risks.


 


    Although we focused on internal growth for several years before
    the downturn in the homebuilding industry, we may make strategic
    acquisitions of homebuilding companies or their assets in the
    future. Successful strategic acquisitions can require the
    integration of operations and management and other efforts to
    realize the benefits that may be available. Although we believe
    that we have been successful in the past, we can give no
    assurance that we would be able to successfully identify,
    acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions in the future.
    Acquisitions can result in the dilution of existing stockholders
    if we issue our common stock as consideration or reduce our
    liquidity or increase our debt if we fund them with cash. The
    impact on liquidity may be increased because we do not currently
    have a revolving credit facility. In addition, acquisitions can
    expose us to valuation risks, including the risk of writing off
    goodwill or impairing inventory and other assets related to such
    acquisitions. The risk of goodwill and other asset impairments
    increases during a cyclical housing downturn when our
    profitability may decline, as evidenced by the goodwill and
    other asset impairment charges we recognized in recent years. In
    addition, we may not be able to implement successfully our
    operating or internal growth strategies within our existing
    markets. In the uncertain current market conditions, asset
    acquisitions involve a risk that the markets involved
    subsequently deteriorate. Conversely, if we delay an acquisition
    until we believe the market uncertainties are resolved, the
    potential competitive advantages of the acquisition may be
    limited.


 



    We may
    not realize our deferred income tax asset.


 


    As of September 30, 2009, we have a net deferred income tax
    asset of $1,124.4 million, against which we have provided a
    valuation allowance of $1,124.4 million. The realization of
    the deferred income tax asset is dependent upon the taxable
    income available in current statutory carryback periods,
    reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax
    planning strategies and our ability to generate taxable income
    within the statutory carryforward periods. Based on our
    assessment, the realization of all of our deferred income tax
    asset





    
    18



Table of Contents





    is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during
    the statutory carryforward periods in which the related
    temporary differences become deductible.


 


    The accounting for deferred income taxes is based upon estimates
    of future results, and the valuation allowance may be increased
    or decreased as conditions change or if we are unable to
    implement certain tax planning strategies. Differences between
    the anticipated and actual outcomes of these future tax
    consequences could have a material impact on our consolidated
    results of operations or financial position. Changes in tax laws
    also affect actual tax results and the valuation of deferred
    income tax assets over time.


 



    The
    utilization of our tax losses could be substantially limited if
    we experienced an ownership change as defined in the Internal
    Revenue Code.


 


    We have experienced continuing losses that have produced net
    operating losses and unrealized built-in losses for income tax
    purposes. These have the potential to reduce future income tax
    obligations if we become profitable in the future. However,
    Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules
    that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership
    change to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and
    certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership
    change. Under the rules, such an ownership change is generally
    any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock within a
    rolling three-year period, as calculated in accordance with the
    rules. The rules generally operate by focusing on changes in
    ownership among stockholders considered by the rules as owning
    directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of the company
    and any change in ownership arising from new issuances of stock
    by the company.


 


    If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of
    Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving
    our common stock, our ability to use any of our net operating
    loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards or net unrealized
    built-in losses at the time of ownership change would be subject
    to the limitations of Section 382 on their use against
    future taxable income. The limitation may affect the amount of
    our deferred income tax asset and, depending on the limitation,
    a significant portion of our built-in losses, any net operating
    loss carryforwards or tax credit carryforwards could expire
    before we would be able to use them. This could adversely affect
    our financial position, results of operations and cash flow.


 


    We believe that we have not experienced such an ownership change
    as of September 30, 2009; however, the amount by which our
    ownership may change in the future could be affected by
    purchases and sales of stock by 5% stockholders and the
    conversion of our outstanding senior convertible notes, over
    which we have no control, and new issuances of stock by us,
    should we choose to do so. In August 2009, our board of
    directors adopted a Section 382 rights agreement as a
    measure intended to deter such an ownership change in order to
    preserve these tax attributes. The Section 382 rights
    agreement, however, may not prevent an ownership change.
    Moreover, it will expire by its terms in 2010 if it is not
    approved when we submit it to our stockholders for their
    approval. In addition, while the Section 382 rights
    agreement is in effect, it could discourage or prevent a merger,
    tender offer, proxy contest or accumulations of substantial
    blocks of shares for which some stockholders might receive a
    premium above market value. It could also adversely affect the
    liquidity of the market for our shares.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B