ITEM 1A.
    
    RISK FACTORS




     
Discussion of our business and operations included in this
annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the
risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and
uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks
and uncertainties, together with other factors described
elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our
business, financial condition, results of operations, cash
flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner.


10



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    
    Because of the cyclical nature of our industry, future
    changes in general economic, real estate construction or other
    business conditions could adversely affect our business or our
    financial results.




     
Cyclical Industry. The homebuilding industry is cyclical
and is significantly affected by changes in general and local
economic conditions, such as:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    employment levels;



     



     
    • 
    
    availability of financing for homebuyers;



     



     
    • 
    
    interest rates;



     



     
    • 
    
    consumer confidence;



     



     
    • 
    
    demographic trends; and



     



     
    • 
    
    housing demand.




     
These may occur on a national scale or may affect some of the
regions or markets in which we operate more than others. If
adverse conditions affect any of our larger markets, they could
have a proportionately greater impact on us than some other
homebuilding companies.


     
An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental
properties and used or foreclosed homes, could also depress new
home prices and reduce our margins on the sales of new homes.


     
Risks Related to National Security. Continued military
deployments in the Middle East and other overseas regions,
terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or threats to national
security, and any corresponding response by the United States or
others, or related domestic or international instability, may
adversely affect general economic conditions or cause a slowdown
of the national economy.


     
Inventory Risks. Inventory risks can be substantial for
our homebuilding business. Our long-term ability to build homes
depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential
building at affordable prices in locations where our customers
want to live. We must anticipate demand for new homes and
continuously seek and make acquisitions of land for replacement
and expansion of land inventory within our current markets and
for expansion into new markets. In some markets, this has become
more difficult and costly.


     
Our current goal is to own or control approximately a three to
four year supply of land and building lots. The risks inherent
in controlling or purchasing and developing land increase as
consumer demand for housing decreases. Thus, we may have
acquired options on or bought and developed land at a cost we
will not be able to recover fully or on which we cannot build
and sell homes profitably. Our deposits for building lots
controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk.
The market value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing
inventories can also fluctuate significantly as a result of
changing market conditions. We cannot make any assurances that
the measures we employ to manage inventory risks and costs will
be successful.


     
In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can
result in reduced margins or losses in a poorly performing
project or market. In the event of significant changes in
economic or market conditions, we may have to sell homes or land
for a lower profit margin or at a loss.


     
Supply Risks. The homebuilding industry has from time to
time experienced significant difficulties that can affect the
cost or timing of construction, including:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    shortages of qualified trades people;



     



     
    • 
    
    reliance on local subcontractors, who may be inadequately
    capitalized;



     



     
    • 
    
    shortages of materials; and



     



     
    • 
    
    volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly
    increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are
    significant components of home construction costs.




11



Table of Contents

     
Risks from Nature. Weather conditions and natural
disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, volcanic
activity, droughts, floods and wildfires, can harm our
homebuilding business. These can delay home closings, adversely
affect the cost or availability of materials or labor, or damage
homes under construction. The climates and geology of many of
the states in which we operate, including California, Florida
and Texas, where we have some of our larger operations, present
increased risks of adverse weather or natural disaster.


     
Possible Consequences. As a result of the foregoing
matters, in the future, potential customers may be less willing
or able to buy our homes, or we may take longer or incur more
costs to build them. We may not be able to recapture increased
costs by raising prices in many cases because of market
conditions or because we fix our prices in advance of delivery
by signing home sales contracts. We may be unable to change the
mix of our home offerings or the affordability of our homes to
maintain our margins or satisfactorily address changing market
conditions in other ways. In addition, cancellations of home
sales contracts in backlog may increase beyond historical rates
as homebuyers cancel or do not honor their contracts.


     
Our financial services business is closely related to our
homebuilding business as it originates mortgage loans
principally to purchasers of the homes we build. A decrease in
the demand for our homes because of the foregoing matters or an
increase in consumer preference for adjustable rate or other
low-margin loans could also adversely affect the financial
results of this segment of our business. An increase in the
default rate on the mortgages we originate could adversely
affect the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages that we
originate in the future.







    
    



    
    
    Future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage
    availability or increases in the effective costs of owning a
    home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and
    adversely affect our business or our financial results.




     
Most of our customers finance their home purchases through
lenders providing mortgage financing. Interest rates have been
at historical lows for a significant time. Many homebuyers have
also chosen adjustable rate, interest only or other mortgages
that involve initial lower monthly payments. As a result, new
homes have been more affordable. Increases in interest rates or
decreases in availability of mortgage financing, however, could
reduce the market for new homes. Potential homebuyers may be
less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to
obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate
changes. Lenders may increase the qualifications needed for
mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit
risk. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes
in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder
for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who
need financing. These matters could adversely affect the sales
or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or
margins in our financial services business. The impact on our
financial services business could be compounded to the extent we
are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have
committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we
employ.


     
In addition, we believe that the availability of FHA and VA
mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of
our homes. We also believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac to the mortgage industry is important to the
housing market. However, the federal government has recently
sought to reduce the size of the home-loan portfolios and
operations of these two government-sponsored enterprises. Any
limitations or restrictions on the availability of the financing
or on the liquidity by them could adversely affect interest
rates, mortgage financing and our sales of new homes and
mortgage loans.


     
Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage
interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible
expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases
state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under
current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state
government changes its income tax laws, as has been discussed
recently, to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax
deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home could
increase for many of our potential


12



Table of Contents


customers. The resulting loss or reduction of homeowner tax
deductions, if such tax law changes were enacted without
offsetting provisions, could adversely impact demand for and
sales prices of new homes.







    
    



    
    
    Governmental regulations could increase the cost and limit
    the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or
    affect our related financial services operations and adversely
    affect our business or financial results.




     
We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect
land development and home construction, including zoning,
density restrictions, building design and building standards.
These regulations often provide broad discretion to the
administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we
must meet prior to being approved, if approved at all. We are
subject to determinations by these authorities as to the
adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads or other local
services. In addition, in many markets government authorities
have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. Any of
these can limit, delay or increase the costs of development or
homebuilding.


     
New housing developments may be subject to various assessments
for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. These
can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. In
addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental
authorities, as recently experienced in response to reduced
federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of
potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to
purchase new homes.


     
We also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal
laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety and
the environment. The impact of environmental laws varies
depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining
properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where
undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available.
These matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur
substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can
prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding
activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.


     
Our financial services operations are also subject to numerous
federal, state and local laws and regulations. These include
eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan
programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar
requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions
against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures.
They may also subject our operations to examination by the
applicable agencies. These may limit our ability to provide
mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of
our homes.







    
    



    
    
    Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial
    condition.




     
We have a significant amount of debt. As of September 30,
2005, our consolidated debt was $4,909.6 million. In the
ordinary course of business, we may incur significant additional
debt, to the extent permitted by our revolving credit facility
and our indentures.


     
Possible Consequences. The amount of our debt could have
important consequences. For example, it could:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    limit our ability to obtain future financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service
    requirements or other requirements;



     



     
    • 
    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payment of our debt and reduce our ability to
    use our cash flow for other purposes;



     



     
    • 
    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the
    changes in our business;



     



     
    • 
    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt
    than some of our competitors; and



     



     
    • 
    
    make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our
    business or in general economic conditions.




13



Table of Contents

     
Dependence on Future Performance. Our ability to meet our
debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future
financial performance. We are engaged in businesses that are
substantially affected by changes in economic conditions. Our
revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic
activity in the markets we serve. Our businesses are also
affected by financial, political, business and other factors,
many of which are beyond our control. The factors that affect
our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to
raise additional funds for these purposes through the sale of
debt or equity securities, the refinancing of debt, or the sale
of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our
ability to meet our debt service obligations, because borrowings
under our credit facilities bear interest at floating rates and
our “interest rate swap” agreements fix our interest
rate for only a portion of these borrowings.


     
As of September 30, 2005, the scheduled maturities of
principal on our outstanding debt for the subsequent
12 months totaled $1,270.5 million, including
$1,249.5 million in financial services debt that must be
renewed annually. Based on the current level of operations, we
believe our cash flow from operations, available cash, available
borrowings under our credit facilities and our ability to access
the capital markets and to refinance or renew our facilities in
a timely manner will be adequate to meet our future cash needs.
We cannot, however, make any assurances that in the future our
business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or
that borrowings or access to the capital markets or refinancing
or renewal facilities will be available to us in amounts
sufficient to enable us to pay or refinance our indebtedness or
to fund other cash needs.


     
Indenture and Credit Facility Restrictions. Our revolving
credit facility and the indentures governing most series of our
senior and senior subordinated notes impose restrictions on our
operations and activities. The most significant restrictions
relate to limits on investments, stock repurchases, cash
dividends and other restricted payments, incurrence of
indebtedness, creation of liens and asset dispositions, and
require maintenance of minimum levels of tangible net worth and
compliance with other financial covenants. If we fail to comply
with any of these restrictions or covenants, the trustees, the
noteholders or the lending banks, as applicable, could cause our
debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. If we do not
maintain our current credit ratings, available credit under our
revolving credit facility is subject to limitations based on
specified percentages of the costs of homes, developed lots and
lots under development included in inventory and the amount of
other senior, unsecured indebtedness. Under the most restrictive
of the limitations imposed by our indentures and revolving
credit agreement, as of September 30, 2005, we would have
been permitted to increase our homebuilding debt by
approximately $2.5 billion. This amount is not intended as
an indication of the amount of additional debt we could in fact
obtain.


     
Change of Control Purchase Options. If a change of
control occurs as defined in the indentures governing many
series of our senior and senior subordinated notes, constituting
$2,494.8 million principal amount in the aggregate, we
would be required to offer to purchase such notes at 101% of
their principal amount, together with all accrued and unpaid
interest, if any. Moreover, a change of control may also result
in the acceleration of our revolving credit facility. If
purchase offers were required under the indentures for these
notes or our revolving credit facility debt were accelerated, we
can give no assurance that we would have sufficient funds to pay
the amounts that we would be required to repurchase or repay. We
currently would not have sufficient funds available to purchase
all of such outstanding debt upon a change of control.


     
Impact of Financial Services Debt. Our financial services
business is conducted through subsidiaries that are not
restricted by our indentures or revolving credit facility. The
ability of our financial services segment to provide funds to
our homebuilding operations is subject to restrictions in its
credit facilities. These funds will not be available to us in
the event of defaults under these facilities. Moreover, our
right to receive assets from these subsidiaries upon liquidation
or recapitalization will be subject to the prior claims of the
creditors of these subsidiaries. Our claims to funds from this
segment would be subordinate to subsidiary indebtedness to the
extent of any security for such indebtedness and to any
indebtedness otherwise recognized as senior to our claims.


14



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    
    Homebuilding is very competitive, and competitive
    conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial
    results.




     
The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders
compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable
properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. We
compete with other local, regional and national homebuilders,
including those with a sales presence on the Internet, often
within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed by
such homebuilders. The competitive conditions in the
homebuilding industry could result in:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    difficulty in acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices;



     



     
    • 
    
    increased selling incentives;



     



     
    • 
    
    lower sales or profit margins; or



     



     
    • 
    
    delays in construction of our homes.




     
Our financial services business competes with other mortgage
lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage
bankers, savings and loan associations and other financial
institutions. Mortgage lenders with greater access to capital
markets or different lending criteria may be able to offer more
attractive financing to potential customers.


     
If we are affected by these competitive conditions at increased
levels, our business and financial results could be adversely
affected.







    
    



    
    
    Our future growth may require additional capital, which
    may not be available.




     
Our operations require significant amounts of cash. We may be
required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of
equity or debt or additional bank borrowings, for the future
growth and development of our business. We can give no assurance
as to the availability of such additional capital or, if
available, whether it would be on terms acceptable to us.
Moreover, the indentures for most of our outstanding public debt
and the covenants of our revolving credit facility contain
provisions that may restrict the debt we may incur in the
future. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient
capital, it could reduce our sales and may adversely affect our
future growth and financial results.







    
    



    
    
    We cannot make any assurances that our growth strategies
    will be successful.




     
Since 1993, we have acquired many homebuilding companies.
Although we have recently focused on internal growth, we may
make strategic acquisitions of homebuilding companies in the
future. Successful strategic acquisitions require the
integration of operations and management and other efforts to
realize the benefits that may be available. Although we believe
that we have been successful in doing so in the past, we can
give no assurance that we would be able to identify, acquire and
integrate successfully strategic acquisitions in the future.
Acquisitions can result in the dilution of existing stockholders
if we issue our common stock as consideration or reduce our
liquidity or increase our debt if we fund them with cash. In
addition, acquisitions can expose us to the risk of writing off
goodwill related to such acquisitions based on the subsequent
results of the reporting units to which the acquired businesses
were assigned. Moreover, we may not be able to implement
successfully our operating and growth strategies within our
existing markets.







    
    



    
    
    Homebuilding is subject to warranty and product liability
    claims in the ordinary course of business that can be
    significant.




     
As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and
construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of
business. As a consequence, we maintain product liability
insurance, obtain indemnities and certificates of insurance from
subcontractors generally covering claims related to workmanship
and materials, and create warranty and other reserves for the
homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and
our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types
of homes built. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these
matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance
coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will
be adequate to address all of our warranty and


15



Table of Contents


construction defect claims in the future. Contractual
indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible
for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims
may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable
coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the
availability of product liability insurance for construction
defects are currently limited and costly. We have responded to
the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations
by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves.
There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further
restricted and become more costly.










    
    



    ITEM 1B