ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Discussion of our business and operations included in this
    annual report on
    Form 10-K
    should be read together with the risk factors set forth below.
    They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or
    may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with
    other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the
    potential to affect our business, financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material
    and adverse manner.


 



    The
    homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant downturn, and
    its duration and ultimate severity are uncertain. Further
    deterioration in industry conditions or in the broader economic
    conditions of the markets where we operate could further
    decrease demand and pricing for new homes and have additional
    adverse effects on our operations and financial
    results.


 


    The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly
    affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in
    general and local economic conditions, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    employment levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability of financing for homebuyers;




 



     
        • 

    
    interest rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer confidence;




 



     
        • 

    
    levels of new and existing homes for sale;




 



     
        • 

    
    demographic trends; and




 



     
        • 

    
    housing demand.





 


    These may occur on a national scale or may affect some of the
    regions or markets in which we operate more than others. When
    adverse conditions affect any of our larger markets, they have a
    proportionately greater impact on us than on some other
    homebuilding companies. Our operations in previously strong
    markets, particularly California, Florida and Nevada, where we
    have significant inventory, have more adversely affected our
    financial results than our other markets in the current downturn.


 


    An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as existing
    homes, including homes held for sale by investors and
    speculators, foreclosed homes, and rental properties, can also
    reduce our ability to sell new homes and depress new home prices
    and reduce our margins on the sales of new homes.


 


    During fiscal 2007, the already difficult conditions within the
    industry became progressively more challenging as demand for new
    homes continued to decline in most of our markets. The slowing
    demand, combined with the continued elevation in our sales
    cancellation rate, caused our sales results to be significantly
    below expectations. Also, our gross profit from home sales
    revenues continued to decline as we offered higher levels of
    incentives and price concessions in attempts to stimulate demand
    in our communities.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    We believe that housing market conditions will continue to be
    challenging and may deteriorate further. We cannot predict the
    duration or ultimate severity of these challenging conditions.


 



    The
    reduction in availability of mortgage financing and the
    volatility and reduction in liquidity in the financial markets
    have adversely affected our business, and the duration and
    ultimate severity of the effects are uncertain.


 


    During fiscal 2007, the mortgage lending industry experienced
    significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on
    subprime loans and a resulting decline in the market value of
    such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors,
    regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of
    lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan
    programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has
    led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and
    mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements,
    reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums. A
    deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other
    nonconforming loans has caused almost all lenders to eliminate
    subprime mortgages and most other loan products that are not
    conforming loans, FHA/VA-eligible loans or jumbo loans (which
    meet conforming underwriting guidelines other than loan size).
    Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications in turn make
    it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of
    our homes and for some buyers of existing homes from our move-up
    buyers to finance the purchase of the move-up buyer’s
    existing home. These factors have served to reduce the pool of
    qualified homebuyers and made it more difficult to sell to first
    time and first time
    move-up
    buyers which have long made up a substantial part of our
    customers. These reductions in demand have adversely affected
    our operations and financial results, and the duration and
    severity of the effects are uncertain.


 


    We believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie
    Mac to the mortgage industry is very important to the housing
    market. These entities have recently reported losses as a result
    of deteriorating housing and credit market conditions. These
    losses have reduced their equity, which may limit their ability
    to acquire mortgages. The federal government recently sought to
    limit the size of the home-loan portfolios and operations of
    these government-sponsored enterprises. Any limitations or
    restrictions on the availability of the financing or on the
    liquidity provided by them could adversely affect interest
    rates, mortgage availability and our sales of new homes and
    mortgage loans.


 



    Our
    strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the
    homebuilding industry have had limited success, and the
    continued implementation of these and other strategies may not
    be successful.


 


    While we have been successful in generating positive operating
    cash flow and reducing our inventories in fiscal 2007, we have
    done so at significantly reduced gross profit levels and have
    incurred significant asset impairment charges. These have
    contributed to the net loss we recognized in fiscal 2007. Also,
    in fiscal 2007, notwithstanding our sales strategies, we
    continued to experience an elevated rate of sales contract
    cancellations. We believe that the increase in the cancellation
    rate is largely due to a decrease in homebuyer confidence, due
    principally to continued price declines and increases in the
    level of sales incentives for both new and existing homes. A
    more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the inability
    of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also impacted
    cancellations. Many of the factors that affect new sales and
    cancellation rates are beyond our control. It is uncertain how
    long the reduction in sales and the increased level of
    cancellations will continue.


 



    The
    homebuilding industry continues to be cyclical and affected by
    changes in general economic, real estate or other business
    conditions that could adversely affect our business or financial
    results.


 


    Inventory Risks.  Inventory risks are
    substantial for our homebuilding business. The risks inherent in
    controlling or purchasing and developing land increase as
    consumer demand for housing decreases. Thus, we may have
    acquired options on or bought and developed land at a cost we
    will not be able to recover fully or on which we cannot build
    and sell homes profitably. Our deposits for building lots
    controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk.
    The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing
    inventories can also fluctuate significantly as a result of
    changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying
    costs can be significant and can result in reduced margins or
    losses in a poorly performing project or market. In the



    
    11



Table of Contents




    present weak market conditions, we have sold homes and land for
    lower profit margins than in the past and we have recorded
    significant inventory impairment charges.


 


    Historically, our goals for years of supply for ownership and
    control of land and building lots were based on
    management’s expectations for future volume growth. In
    light of the much weaker market conditions encountered in fiscal
    2006, which further deteriorated in fiscal 2007, our
    expectations changed and we significantly slowed our purchases
    of land and lots as part of our strategy to reduce our inventory
    to better match our reduced rate of production. We terminated
    numerous land option contracts and wrote off earnest money
    deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to these option
    contracts. We cannot make any assurances that the measures we
    employ to manage inventory risks and costs will be successful.


 


    Supply Risks.  The homebuilding industry has
    from time to time experienced significant difficulties that can
    affect the cost or timing of construction, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in acquiring land suitable for residential building
    at affordable prices in locations where our potential customers
    want to live;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of qualified trades people;




 



     
        • 

    
    reliance on local subcontractors, who may be inadequately
    capitalized;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of materials; and




 



     
        • 

    
    volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly
    increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are
    significant components of home construction costs.





 


    Risks from Nature.  Weather conditions and
    natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes,
    wildfires, volcanic activity, droughts, and floods, can harm our
    homebuilding business. These can delay home closings, adversely
    affect the cost or availability of materials or labor, or damage
    homes under construction. The climates and geology of many of
    the states in which we operate, including California, Florida
    and Texas, where we have some of our larger operations, present
    increased risks of adverse weather or natural disaster.


 


    Risks Related to National Security.  Continued
    military deployments in the Middle East and other overseas
    regions, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or threats to
    national security, and any corresponding response by the United
    States or others, or related domestic or international
    instability, may adversely affect general economic conditions or
    cause a slowdown of the national economy.


 


    Consequences.  As a result of the foregoing
    matters, potential customers may be less able or willing to buy
    our homes, or we may take longer or incur more costs to build
    them. Because of current market conditions, we have not been
    able to recapture any increased costs by raising prices. In the
    future, our ability to do so may also be limited by market
    conditions or because we fix our prices in advance of delivery
    by signing home sales contracts. We may be unable to change the
    mix of our home offerings or the affordability of our homes to
    maintain our margins or satisfactorily address changing market
    conditions in other ways. In addition, cancellations of home
    sales contracts in backlog may increase as homebuyers cancel or
    do not honor their contracts.


 


    Our financial services business is closely related to our
    homebuilding business, as it originates mortgage loans
    principally to purchasers of the homes we build. A decrease in
    the demand for our homes because of the foregoing matters may
    also adversely affect the financial results of this segment of
    our business. An increase in the default rate on the mortgages
    we originate may adversely affect our ability to sell the
    mortgages or the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages
    or may increase our repurchase obligations for previous
    originations.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Increases
    in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or
    increases in other costs of owning a home could prevent
    potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect
    our business or our financial results. During fiscal 2007, we
    experienced a reduction in the mortgage financing available to
    our customers.


 


    Most of our customers finance their home purchases through
    lenders providing mortgage financing. Prior to the recent
    volatility in the financial markets, interest rates were at
    historical lows and a variety of mortgage products were
    available. As a result, homeownership became more accessible.
    The mortgage products available included features that allowed
    buyers to obtain financing for a significant portion, up to all,
    of the purchase price of the home, had very limited underwriting
    requirements or provided for lower initial monthly payments. As
    a result, more people were able to qualify for mortgage
    financing. During fiscal 2007, there was a significant decrease
    in the type of mortgage products available and a general
    increase in the qualification requirements for mortgages such
    that fewer people are able to qualify for and obtain mortgage
    financing. This, coupled with higher mortgage interest rates has
    reduced demand for new homes.


 


    Some of our homebuyers use down payment assistance programs,
    which allow homebuyers to receive gift funds from non-profit
    corporations to be used as a down payment. Homebuilders are a
    source of funding for these programs. The Department of Housing
    and Urban Development (HUD) and Congress are considering
    limitations and further regulation of these programs. New
    restrictions may limit the ability of seller-funded non-profit
    corporations to fund down payment assistance programs for
    government-insured mortgage loans. HUD has issued a rule that
    eliminates seller-funded down payment assistance as an
    acceptable minimum investment in the property for FHA insured
    loans. However, the implementation of that rule has been delayed
    as a result of litigation filed by certain down payment
    assistance providers. The ultimate outcome of this litigation is
    uncertain. If, as a result of legislative, regulatory or other
    action, the gift fund programs that some of our customers use
    would no longer be available to them, we would expect to seek
    other financing alternatives, and seek different down payment
    programs for those customers who meet applicable guidelines.
    There can be no assurance, however, that any such alternative
    programs would be as attractive to our customers as the programs
    offered today and that our sales would not suffer.


 


    We believe that the availability of FHA and VA mortgage
    financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes.
    Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of the
    financing provided by them could adversely affect interest
    rates, mortgage financing and our sales of new homes and
    mortgage loans.


 


    Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in
    interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing
    products may make it harder for them to sell their current homes
    to potential buyers who need financing.


 


    Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage
    interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible
    expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases
    state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under
    current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state
    government changes its income tax laws, as has been discussed,
    to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax
    deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home could
    increase for many of our potential customers. The resulting loss
    or reduction of homeowner tax deductions, if such tax law
    changes were enacted without offsetting provisions, could
    adversely impact demand for and sales prices of new homes.


 


    These matters may adversely affect the sales or pricing of our
    homes and may also reduce the volume or margins in our financial
    services business. The impact on our financial services business
    may be compounded to the extent we are unable to match interest
    rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate
    through the various hedging strategies we employ.


 



    Governmental
    regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability
    of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our
    related financial services operations and adversely affect our
    business or financial results.


 


    We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect
    land development and home construction, including zoning,
    density restrictions, building design and building standards.
    These regulations often provide



    
    13



Table of Contents




    broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities
    as to the conditions we must meet prior to being approved, if
    approved at all. We are subject to determinations by these
    authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities,
    roads or other local services. In addition, in many markets
    government authorities have implemented no growth or growth
    control initiatives. Any of these can limit, delay or increase
    the costs of development or home construction.


 


    New housing developments may be subject to various assessments
    for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements, which
    could cause an increase in the total cost of homeownership. In
    addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental
    authorities, as experienced in response to reduced federal and
    state funding, can adversely affect the ability of potential
    customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new
    homes.


 


    We are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and
    regulations concerning protection of health, safety and the
    environment. The impact of environmental laws varies depending
    upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties
    and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped
    land or desirable alternatives are less available. These matters
    may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial
    compliance, remediation, mitigation and other costs, and can
    prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding
    activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.


 


    Our financial services operations are also subject to numerous
    federal, state and local laws and regulations. These include
    eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan
    programs, compliance with consumer lending and similar
    requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions
    against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures.
    They may also subject our operations to examination by the
    applicable agencies. These factors may limit our ability to
    provide mortgage financing or title services to potential
    purchasers of our homes.


 



    Our
    substantial debt could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    We have a significant amount of debt. As of September 30,
    2007, our consolidated debt was $4,376.8 million. In the
    ordinary course of business, we may incur significant additional
    debt, to the extent permitted by our revolving credit facility,
    our indentures and the credit facilities of our financial
    services subsidiaries.


 


    Possible Consequences.  The amount of our debt
    could have important consequences. For example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to obtain future financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service
    requirements or other requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payment of our debt and reduce our ability to
    use our cash flow for other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the
    changes in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt
    than some of our competitors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our
    business or in general economic conditions.





 


    Dependence on Future Performance.  Our ability
    to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon
    our future financial performance. We are engaged in businesses
    that are substantially affected by changes in industry and
    economic conditions. Our revenues and earnings vary with the
    level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our
    businesses are also affected by financial, political, business
    and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The
    factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect
    our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through
    the sale of debt or equity securities, the refinancing of debt,
    or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may
    affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations, because
    borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at floating
    rates and our interest rate swap agreements fix our interest
    rate for only a portion of these borrowings.


 


    As of September 30, 2007, the scheduled maturities of
    principal on our outstanding debt for the subsequent
    12 months totaled $631.2 million, including
    $387.8 million in financial services debt that must be
    renewed annually. Based on the current level of operations, we
    believe our cash flow from operations, available cash,



    
    14



Table of Contents




    available borrowings under our credit facilities and our ability
    to access the capital markets and to refinance or renew our
    facilities in a timely manner will be adequate to meet our
    future cash needs. We cannot, however, make any assurances that
    in the future our business will generate sufficient cash flow
    from operations or that borrowings or access to the capital
    markets or refinancing or renewal facilities will be available
    to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay or refinance our
    indebtedness or to fund other cash needs.


 


    Indenture and Credit Facility
    Restrictions.  Our revolving credit facility and
    the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes impose
    restrictions on our operations and activities. The most
    significant restrictions relate to limits on investments, cash
    dividends, stock repurchases and other restricted payments,
    incurrence of indebtedness, creation of liens and asset
    dispositions, and require maintenance of a maximum leverage
    ratio, a minimum ratio of earnings before interest, income
    taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest incurred,
    minimum levels of tangible net worth and compliance with other
    financial covenants. In addition, the indentures governing our
    senior notes impose restrictions on the creation of liens. If we
    fail to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants, the
    trustees, the noteholders or the lending banks, as applicable,
    could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to
    maturity. In addition, if the margins by which we meet the
    financial covenants in our revolving credit facility are reduced
    significantly in the future, we or our lenders may seek to
    negotiate revised terms for the facility that could increase the
    cost, reduce the availability or change other conditions of the
    facility.


 


    The credit facilities of our financial services subsidiaries
    also require the maintenance of minimum levels of tangible net
    worth, ratio of debt to tangible net worth and net income. A
    failure to comply with these requirements could allow the
    lending banks to terminate the availability of funds to the
    financial services subsidiaries or cause their debt to become
    due and payable prior to maturity.


 


    Change in Debt Rating.  Until November 2007, we
    had investment grade ratings on our senior debt from all three
    of the major rating agencies. In November one of the agencies
    lowered our rating below investment grade while another placed
    us on watch for a possible downgrade from investment grade. The
    third agency has a negative outlook on its investment grade
    rating of our debt. If we do not maintain our investment grade
    credit ratings from both of the remaining agencies, available
    credit under our revolving credit facility is subject to
    limitations based on specified percentages of unsold homes,
    developed lots and lots under development included in inventory
    and the amount of other senior unsecured indebtedness and the
    cost of such capital may increase. Further, the loss of our
    investment grade rating can make accessing the public debt
    markets more difficult and expensive.


 


    Change of Control Purchase Options.  If a
    change of control occurs as defined in the indentures governing
    many series of our senior and senior subordinated notes,
    constituting $1.9 billion principal amount in the aggregate
    as of September 30, 2007, we would be required to offer to
    purchase such notes at 101% of their principal amount, together
    with all accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Moreover, a change
    of control may also result in the acceleration of our revolving
    credit facility and our financial services credit facilities. If
    purchase offers were required under the indentures for these
    notes or these credit facilities were accelerated, we can give
    no assurance that we would have sufficient funds to pay the
    amounts that we would be required to purchase or repay. At
    September 30, 2007, we did not have sufficient funds
    available to purchase or pay all of such outstanding debt upon a
    change of control.


 


    Impact of Financial Services Debt.  Our
    financial services business is conducted through subsidiaries
    that are not restricted by our indentures or revolving credit
    facility. The ability of our financial services subsidiaries to
    provide funds to our homebuilding operations, however, is
    subject to restrictions in their own credit facilities. These
    funds would not be available to us upon the occurrence and
    during the continuance of defaults under these facilities.
    Moreover, our right to receive assets from these subsidiaries
    upon liquidation or recapitalization will be subject to the
    prior claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. Any claims
    we may have to funds from this segment would be subordinate to
    subsidiary indebtedness to the extent of any security for such
    indebtedness and to any indebtedness otherwise recognized as
    senior to our claims.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Homebuilding
    and financial services are very competitive, and competitive
    conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial
    results.


 


    The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders
    compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable
    properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. We
    compete with other local, regional and national homebuilders,
    often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed
    by such homebuilders. We also compete with existing home sales
    and rental properties. The competitive conditions in the
    homebuilding industry can result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    lower sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower selling prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased selling incentives;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower profit margins;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairments in the value of our inventory, goodwill and other
    assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in effecting our strategies to reduce inventory;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in acquiring suitable land, raw materials, and
    skilled labor at acceptable prices; or




 



     
        • 

    
    delays in construction of our homes;





 


    Our financial services business competes with other mortgage
    lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage banks
    and other financial institutions. Mortgage lenders with greater
    access to capital markets or different lending criteria may be
    able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers.


 


    When we are affected by these competitive conditions, our
    business and financial results could be adversely affected. In
    the current downturn in the homebuilding industry, the reactions
    of our competitors may have reduced the effectiveness of our
    efforts to achieve pricing stability and reduce our inventory
    levels.


 



    Our
    future operations may require additional capital, which may not
    be available.


 


    Our operations require significant amounts of cash. We may be
    required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of
    equity, debt issuances or additional bank borrowings, for our
    business. We can give no assurance as to the availability of
    such additional capital or, if available, whether it would be on
    terms acceptable to us. Moreover, the indentures for our
    outstanding public debt and the covenants of our credit
    facilities contain provisions that may restrict the debt we may
    incur in the future. If we are not successful in obtaining
    sufficient capital, it could reduce the level of our business
    and may adversely affect our financial results.


 



    We
    cannot make any assurances that any future growth strategies
    will be successful.


 


    Since 1993, we acquired many homebuilding companies. Although we
    focused on internal growth in recent years, we may make
    strategic acquisitions of homebuilding companies in the future.
    Successful strategic acquisitions require the integration of
    operations and management and other efforts to realize the
    benefits that may be available. Although we believe that we have
    been successful in doing so in the past, we can give no
    assurance that we would be able to identify, acquire and
    integrate successfully strategic acquisitions in the future.
    Acquisitions can result in the dilution of existing stockholders
    if we issue our common stock as consideration or reduce our
    liquidity or increase our debt if we fund them with cash. In
    addition, acquisitions can expose us to valuation risks,
    including the risk of writing off goodwill related to such
    acquisitions based on the subsequent results of the operating
    segments to which the acquired businesses were assigned. The
    risk of write-offs related to goodwill impairment increases
    during a cyclical housing downturn when profitability of our
    operating segments may decline, as evidenced by the goodwill
    impairment charges we recognized in fiscal 2007. Moreover, we
    may not be able to implement successfully our operating and
    future growth strategies within our existing markets.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    Homebuilding
    is subject to home warranty and construction defect claims in
    the ordinary course of business that can be
    significant.


 


    As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and
    construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of
    business. As a consequence, we maintain product liability
    insurance, obtain indemnities and certificates of insurance from
    subcontractors generally covering claims related to workmanship
    and materials, and create warranty and other reserves for the
    homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and
    our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types
    of homes built. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these
    matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance
    coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will
    be adequate to address all of our warranty and construction
    defect claims in the future. Contractual indemnities can be
    difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable
    self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be
    covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits.
    Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of
    product liability insurance for construction defects are
    currently limited and costly. We have responded to increases in
    insurance costs and coverage limitations in recent years by
    increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. There
    can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted
    or become more costly.






 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B