ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk.
    In addition to the other information contained in this report,
    you should consider the following risk factors before investing
    in our securities.


 



    Our
    business would be adversely affected if general economic
    conditions further weaken.


 


    The current economic downturn in the United States and in other
    regions of the world in which we operate could adversely affect
    demand for any of our businesses, thus reducing our revenue and
    earnings. We derive substantial revenues from the sale of
    advertising on our networks. Expenditures by advertisers tend to
    be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as
    budgeting and buying patterns. The current economic conditions
    and any continuation of these adverse conditions may adversely
    affect the economic prospects of advertisers and could alter
    current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities. A
    decrease in advertising expenditures likely would have an
    adverse effect on our business. The decline in economic
    conditions has impacted consumer discretionary spending. Such a
    reduction in consumer spending may impact pay television
    subscriptions, particularly to the more expensive digital
    service tiers, which could lead to a decrease in our
    distribution fees and may reduce the rates we can charge for
    advertising.


 



    Our
    success is dependent upon U.S. and foreign audience acceptance
    of our programming and other entertainment content which is
    difficult to predict.


 


    The production and distribution of pay television programs and
    other entertainment content are inherently risky businesses
    because the revenue we derive and our ability to distribute our
    content depend primarily on consumer tastes and preferences that
    change in often unpredictable ways. Our success depends on our
    ability to consistently create and acquire content and
    programming that meets the changing preferences of viewers in
    general, viewers in special interest groups, viewers in specific
    demographic categories and viewers in various



    
    21



Table of Contents




    overseas marketplaces. The commercial success of our programming
    and other content also depends upon the quality and acceptance
    of competing programs and other content available in the
    applicable marketplace at the same time. Other factors,
    including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment
    and leisure time activities, general economic conditions,
    piracy, digital and on-demand distribution and growing
    competition for consumer discretionary spending may also affect
    the audience for our content. Audience sizes for our media
    networks are critical factors affecting both (i) the volume
    and pricing of advertising revenue that we receive, and
    (ii) the extent of distribution and the license fees we
    receive under agreements with our distributors. Consequently,
    reduced public acceptance of our entertainment content may
    decrease our audience share and adversely affect all of our
    revenue streams.


 



    The
    loss of our affiliation agreements, or renewals with less
    advantageous terms, could cause our revenue to
    decline.


 


    Because our networks are licensed on a wholesale basis to
    distributors such as cable and satellite operators which in turn
    distribute them to consumers, we are dependent upon the
    maintenance of affiliation agreements with these operators.
    These affiliation agreements generally provide for the level of
    carriage our networks will receive, such as channel placement
    and programming package inclusion (widely distributed, broader
    programming packages compared to lesser distributed, specialized
    programming packages), and for payment of a license fee to us
    based on the numbers of subscribers that receive our networks.
    These per-subscriber payments represent a significant portion of
    our revenue. Our affiliation agreements generally have a limited
    term which varies from market to market and from distributor to
    distributor, and there can be no assurance that these
    affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed
    on terms that are as favorable to us as those in effect today. A
    reduction in the license fees that we receive per subscriber or
    in the number of subscribers for which we are paid, including as
    a result of a loss or reduction in carriage for our networks,
    could adversely affect our distribution revenue. Such a loss or
    reduction in carriage could also decrease the potential audience
    for our programs thereby adversely affecting our advertising
    revenue.


 


    Consolidation among cable and satellite operators has given the
    largest operators considerable leverage in their relationship
    with programmers, including us. The two largest U.S. cable
    television system operators provide service to approximately 35%
    of U.S. households receiving cable or satellite television
    service and the two largest satellite television operators
    provide service to an additional 26% of such households. We
    currently have agreements in place with the major
    U.S. cable and satellite operators which expire at various
    times beginning in 2010 through 2017. A failure to secure a
    renewal or a renewal on less favorable terms may have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    position. Our affiliation agreements are complex and
    individually negotiated. If we were to disagree with one of our
    counterparties on the interpretation of an affiliation
    agreement, our relationship with that counterparty could be
    damaged and our business could be negatively affected. In
    addition, many of the overseas markets in which we distribute
    our networks also have a small number of dominant distributors.
    Continued consolidation within the industry could further reduce
    the number of distributors available to carry our programming
    and increase the negotiating leverage of our distributors which
    could adversely affect our revenue.


 



    We
    operate in increasingly competitive industries.


 


    The entertainment and media programming industries in which we
    operate are highly competitive. We compete with other
    programming networks for advertising, distribution and viewers.
    We also compete for viewers with other forms of media
    entertainment, such as home video, movies, periodicals and
    online and mobile activities. In particular, websites and search
    engines have seen significant advertising growth, a portion of
    which is derived from traditional cable network and satellite
    advertisers. In addition, there has been consolidation in the
    media industry and our competitors include market participants
    with interests in multiple media businesses which are often
    vertically integrated. Our online businesses compete for users
    and advertising in the enormously broad and diverse market of
    free internet-delivered services. Our commerce business competes
    against a wide range of competitive retailers selling similar
    products. Our educational video business competes with other
    providers of educational products to schools. Our ability to
    compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including
    our ability to consistently supply high quality and popular
    content, access



    
    22



Table of Contents




    our niche viewerships with appealing category-specific
    programming, adapt to new technologies and distribution
    platforms and achieve widespread distribution. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the
    future against existing or new competitors, or that increasing
    competition will not have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition or results of operations.


 



    Our
    business is subject to risks of adverse laws and regulations,
    both domestic and foreign.


 


    Programming services like ours, and the distributors of our
    services, including cable operators, satellite operators and
    Internet companies, are highly regulated by U.S. federal
    laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal
    agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local
    governments, in ways that affect the daily conduct of our video
    programming business. See discussion under
    “Business — Regulatory Matters” above. The
    U.S. Congress, the FCC and the courts currently have under
    consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws,
    regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters
    that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations of our
    U.S. media properties or modify the terms under which we
    offer our services and operate. For example, any changes to the
    laws and regulations that govern the services or signals that
    are carried by cable television operators or our other
    distributors may result in less capacity for other programming
    services, such as our networks, which could adversely affect our
    revenue.


 


    Similarly, the foreign jurisdictions in which our networks are
    offered have, in varying degrees, government laws and
    regulations governing our businesses. Programming businesses are
    subject to regulation on a country by country basis. Changes in
    regulations imposed by foreign governments could also adversely
    affect our business, results of operations and ability to expand
    our operations beyond their current scope.


 



    Increased
    programming production and content costs may adversely affect
    our results of operations and financial condition.


 


    One of our most significant areas of expense is the licensing
    and production of content. In connection with creating original
    content, we incur production costs associated with, among other
    things, acquiring new show concepts and retaining creative
    talent, including actors, writers and producers. We also incur
    higher production costs when filming in HD than standard
    definition. The costs of producing programming have generally
    increased in recent years. These costs may continue to increase
    in the future, which may adversely affect our results of
    operations and financial condition.


 



    Disruption
    or failure of satellites and facilities, and disputes over
    supplier contracts on which we depend to distribute our
    programming, could adversely affect our business.


 


    We depend on transponders on satellite systems to transmit our
    media networks to cable television operators and other
    distributors worldwide. The distribution facilities include
    uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. We obtain
    satellite transponder capacity pursuant to long-term contracts
    and other arrangements with third-party vendors, which expire at
    various times through 2019. Even with
    back-up and
    redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of
    local disasters or other conditions that may impair on-ground
    uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a
    satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of
    communications satellites available for the transmission of
    programming. If a disruption or failure occurs, we may not be
    able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely
    manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business and results of operations.


 



    We
    must respond to and capitalize on rapid changes in new
    technologies and distribution platforms, including their effect
    on consumer behavior, in order to remain competitive and exploit
    new opportunities.


 


    Technology in the video, telecommunications and data services
    industry is changing rapidly. We must adapt to advances in
    technologies, distribution outlets and content transfer and
    storage to ensure that our content remains desirable and widely
    available to our audiences while protecting our intellectual
    property interests. We may not have the right, and may not be
    able to secure the right, to distribute some of our licensed
    content across these, or any other, new platforms and must adapt
    accordingly. The ability to anticipate



    
    23



Table of Contents




    and take advantage of new and future sources of revenue from
    these technological developments will affect our ability to
    expand our business and increase revenue.


 


    Similarly, we also must adapt to changing consumer behavior
    driven by technological advances such as
    video-on-demand
    and a desire for more user-generated and interactive content.
    Devices that allow consumers to view our entertainment content
    from remote locations or on a time-delayed basis and
    technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip
    advertisements may cause changes in audience behavior that could
    affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and
    could therefore adversely affect our revenue. If we cannot
    ensure that our content is responsive to the lifestyles of our
    target audiences and capitalize on technological advances, there
    could be a negative effect on our business.


 



    Our
    revenue and operating results are subject to seasonal and
    cyclical variations.


 


    Our business has experienced and is expected to continue to
    experience some seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal
    advertising patterns, seasonal influences on people’s
    viewing habits, and a heavy concentration of sales in our
    commerce business during the fourth quarter. For example, due to
    increased demand in the spring and holiday seasons, the second
    and fourth quarters normally have higher advertising revenue
    than the first and third quarters. In addition, advertising
    revenue in even-numbered years benefits from political
    advertising. If a short-term negative impact on our business
    were to occur during a time of high seasonal demand, there could
    be a disproportionate effect on our operating results for the
    year.


 



    We
    continue to develop new products and services for evolving
    markets. There can be no assurance of the success of these
    efforts due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our
    control.


 


    There are substantial uncertainties associated with our efforts
    to develop new products and services for evolving markets, and
    substantial investments may be required. Initial timetables for
    the introduction and development of new products and services
    may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not
    prove feasible. External factors, such as the development of
    competitive alternatives, rapid technological change, regulatory
    changes and shifting market preferences, may cause new markets
    to move in unanticipated directions.


 



    Risks
    associated with our international operations could harm our
    financial condition.


 


    Our networks are offered worldwide. Inherent economic risks of
    doing business in international markets include, among other
    things, longer payment cycles, foreign taxation and currency
    exchange risk. As we continue to expand the provision of our
    products and services to overseas markets, we cannot assure you
    whether these risks and uncertainties will harm our results of
    operations.


 


    Our international operations may also be adversely affected by
    export and import restrictions, other trade barriers and acts of
    disruptions of services or loss of property or equipment that
    are critical to overseas businesses due to expropriation,
    nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism or general social
    or political unrest or other hostilities.


 



    The
    loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely
    affect our revenue.


 


    Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and
    expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and
    entertainment personalities. We employ or contract with
    entertainment personalities who may have loyal audiences. These
    individuals are important to audience endorsement of our
    programs and other content. There can be no assurance that these
    individuals will remain with us or retain their current
    audiences. If we fail to retain these individuals or if our
    entertainment personalities lose their current audience base,
    our revenue could be adversely affected.



    
    24



Table of Contents





    Piracy
    of our entertainment content, including digital piracy, may
    decrease revenue received from our programming and adversely
    affect our business and profitability.


 


    The success of our business depends in part on our ability to
    maintain the intellectual property rights to our entertainment
    content. We are fundamentally a content company and piracy of
    our brands, DVDs, cable television and other programming,
    digital content and other intellectual property has the
    potential to significantly affect us. Piracy is particularly
    prevalent in many parts of the world that lack copyright and
    other protections similar to existing law in the U.S. It is
    also made easier by technological advances allowing the
    conversion of programming into digital formats, which
    facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high
    quality unauthorized copies. Unauthorized distribution of
    copyrighted material over the Internet is a threat to copyright
    owners’ ability to protect and exploit their property. The
    proliferation of unauthorized use of our content may have an
    adverse effect on our business and profitability because it
    reduces the revenue that we potentially could receive from the
    legitimate sale and distribution of our content.


 



    Financial
    market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of
    financing our operations and investments.


 


    The recent changes in U.S. and global financial and equity
    markets, including market disruptions and tightening of the
    credit markets, may make it more difficult for us to obtain
    financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost
    of obtaining financing. In addition, our borrowing costs can be
    affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by
    independent rating agencies which are based, in significant
    part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as
    interest coverage and leverage ratios. A low rating could
    increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us
    to obtain future financing.


 



    Substantial
    leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect
    us.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    $3.7 billion of consolidated debt. Our substantial level of
    indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to
    generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal of,
    interest on, or other amounts due with respect to our
    indebtedness. In addition, we draw down our revolving credit
    facility in the ordinary course, which has the effect of
    increasing our indebtedness. We are also permitted, subject to
    certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, to obtain
    additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to
    meet future financing needs. This would have the effect of
    increasing our total leverage.


 


    Our substantial leverage could have significant negative
    consequences on our financial condition and results of
    operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impairing our ability to meet one or more of the financial ratio
    covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash
    sufficient to pay interest or principal, which could result in
    an acceleration of some or all of our outstanding debt in the
    event that an uncured default occurs;




 



     
        • 

    
    increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    market conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity
    financing;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash
    flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the
    amount of cash flow available for other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some
    of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet
    payment obligations;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and the markets in which we
    compete; and




 



     
        • 

    
    placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less
    leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better
    access to capital resources.






    
    25



Table of Contents



 



    Restrictive
    covenants in the loan agreements for our revolving credit
    facility and term loans, and the note purchase agreements
    governing our private placement notes, could adversely affect
    our business by limiting flexibility.


 


    The loan agreements for our revolving credit facility and term
    loans and the note purchase agreements governing the terms of
    our private placement notes contain restrictive covenants, as
    well as requirements to comply with certain leverage and other
    financial maintenance tests. These covenants and requirements
    limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring
    additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness and engaging in
    various types of transactions, including mergers, acquisitions
    and sales of assets. These covenants could place us at a
    disadvantage compared to some of our competitors, who may have
    fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate
    under these restrictions. Further, these covenants could have an
    adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take
    advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions or other
    opportunities.


 


    In addition, reporting and information covenants in our loan
    agreements and note purchase agreements require that we provide
    financial and operating information within certain time periods.
    If we are unable to timely provide the required information, we
    would be in breach of these covenants.


 



    We are
    a holding company and could be unable in the future to obtain
    cash in amounts sufficient to service our financial obligations
    or meet our other commitments.


 


    Our ability to meet our financial obligations and other
    contractual commitments will depend upon our ability to access
    cash. We are a holding company, and our sources of cash include
    our available cash balances, net cash from the operating
    activities of our subsidiaries, any dividends and interest we
    may receive from our investments, availability under any credit
    facilities that we may obtain in the future and proceeds from
    any asset sales we may undertake in the future. The ability of
    our operating subsidiaries, including Discovery Communications,
    LLC, to pay dividends or to make other payments or advances to
    us will depend on their individual operating results and any
    statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions, including
    restrictions in our credit facility, to which they may be or may
    become subject.


 



    We
    cannot be certain that we will be successful in integrating any
    businesses we may acquire in the future.


 


    Our business strategy includes growth through acquisitions in
    selected markets. Integration of new businesses may present
    significant challenges, including: realizing economies of scale
    in programming and network operations; eliminating duplicative
    overheads; and integrating networks, financial systems and
    operational systems. We cannot assure you that, with respect to
    any acquisition, we will realize anticipated benefits or
    successfully integrate any acquired business with existing
    operations. In addition, while we intend to implement
    appropriate controls and procedures as acquired companies are
    integrated, we may not be able to certify as to the
    effectiveness of these companies’ disclosure controls and
    procedures or internal control over financial reporting (as
    required by U.S. federal securities laws and regulations)
    until we have fully integrated them.


 



    Our
    directors overlap with those of Liberty Media Corporation and
    certain related persons of
    Advance/Newhouse,
    which may lead to conflicting interests.


 


    Our eleven-person board of directors includes four persons who
    are currently members of the board of directors of Liberty Media
    Corporation (“Liberty”), including John C. Malone, the
    Chairman of the board of Liberty, three persons who are
    currently members of the board of directors Liberty Global, Inc.
    (“Liberty Global”), also including Mr. Malone,
    who is Chairman of the board of Liberty Global, and three
    designees of Advance/Newhouse, including Robert J. Miron, the
    Chairman of Advance/Newhouse, and Steven A. Miron, the Chief
    Executive Officer of Advance/Newhouse. Both Liberty and the
    parent company of Advance/Newhouse own interests in a range of
    media, communications and entertainment businesses. Liberty does
    not own any interest in us. Mr. Malone beneficially owns
    stock of Liberty representing approximately 33% of the aggregate
    voting power of its outstanding stock, owns shares representing
    approximately 34% of the aggregate voting power of Liberty
    Global and owns shares representing approximately 23% of the
    aggregate voting



    
    26



Table of Contents




    power (other than with respect to the election of the common
    stock directors) of our outstanding stock. Mr. Malone
    controls approximately 32% of our aggregate voting power
    relating to the election of the eight common stock directors,
    assuming that the preferred stock awarded by Advance/Newhouse
    has not been converted into shares of our common stock. Those of
    our directors who are also directors of Liberty or Liberty
    Global own Liberty or Liberty Global stock and stock incentives
    and own our stock and stock incentives. Advance/Newhouse will
    elect three directors annually for so long as it owns a
    specified minimum amount of our Series A convertible
    preferred stock, and two directors include its Chairman, Robert
    J. Miron, and its Chief Executive Officer, Steven A. Miron. The
    Advance/Newhouse Series A convertible preferred stock,
    which votes with our common stock on all matters other than the
    election of directors, represents approximately 26% of the
    voting power of our outstanding shares. The Series A
    convertible preferred stock also grants Advance/Newhouse consent
    rights over a range of our corporate actions, including
    fundamental changes to our business, the issuance of additional
    capital stock, mergers and business combinations and certain
    acquisitions and dispositions. These ownership interests
    and/or
    business positions could create, or appear to create, potential
    conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with
    decisions that could have different implications for us,
    Liberty, Liberty Global,
    and/or
    Advance/Newhouse. For example, there may be the potential for a
    conflict of interest when we, on the one hand, or Liberty,
    Liberty Global,
    and/or
    Advance/Newhouse, on the other hand, look at acquisitions and
    other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for the other.


 


    The members of our board of directors have fiduciary duties to
    our stockholders. Likewise, those persons who serve in similar
    capacities at Liberty, Liberty Global, or Advance/Newhouse have
    fiduciary duties to those companies. Therefore, such persons may
    have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of
    interest with respect to matters involving or affecting both
    respective companies. Although the terms of any transactions or
    agreements will be established based upon negotiations between
    employees of the companies involved, there can be no assurance
    that the terms of any transactions will be as favorable to us or
    our subsidiaries as would be the case where the parties are at
    arms’ length.


 



    We may
    compete with Liberty for business opportunities.


 


    Liberty owns interests in various U.S. and international
    programming companies that have subsidiaries that own or operate
    domestic or foreign programming services that may compete with
    the programming services we offer. We have no rights in respect
    of U.S. or international programming opportunities
    developed by or presented to the subsidiaries or Liberty, and
    the pursuit of these opportunities by such subsidiaries may
    adversely affect our interests and those of our stockholders.
    Because we and Liberty have overlapping directors, the pursuit
    of business opportunities may serve to intensify the conflicts
    of interest or appearance of conflicts of interest faced by the
    respective management teams. Our charter provides that none of
    our directors or officers will be liable to us or any of our
    subsidiaries for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the
    fact that such individual directs a corporate opportunity to
    another person or entity (including Liberty), for which such
    individual serves as a director or officer, or does not refer or
    communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to
    us or any of our subsidiaries, unless (x) such opportunity
    was expressly offered to such individual solely in his or her
    capacity as a director or officer of us or any of our
    subsidiaries and (y) such opportunity relates to a line of
    business in which we or any of our subsidiaries is then directly
    engaged.


 



    The
    personal educational media, lifelong learning, and travel
    industry investments by John S. Hendricks, a common stock
    director and our Founder, may conflict with or compete with our
    business activities.


 


    Our Founder, John S. Hendricks, manages his non-Discovery,
    personal business investments through Hendricks Investment
    Holdings LLC (“HIH”), a Delaware limited liability
    company of which he is the sole owner and member. HIH owns a
    travel club and travel-related properties including a resort in
    Gateway, Colorado with plans to create a learning academy for
    guests that includes online and advanced media offerings in the
    area of informal and lifelong learning. Certain video
    productions and offerings of this academy may compete with our
    educational media offerings. We and the academy may enter into a
    business arrangement for the offering of our video products for
    sale by the academy
    and/or for
    the joint-production of new educational media products.



    
    27



Table of Contents




    Through HIH, Mr. Hendricks owns a number of business
    interests in the automotive field some of which are involved in
    programming offered by us, in particular the “Turbo”
    programming series we offer.


 


    From time to time, HIH or its subsidiaries may enter into
    transactions with us or our subsidiaries. Although the terms of
    any such transactions or agreements will be established based
    upon negotiations between employees of the companies involved,
    there can be no assurance that the terms of any such
    transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries as
    would be the case where the parties are at arms’ length.


 



    It may
    be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so
    may be beneficial to our stockholders.


 


    Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage,
    delay or prevent a change in control that a stockholder may
    consider favorable. These provisions include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    authorizing a capital structure with multiple series of common
    stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes
    per share, a Series A that entitles the holders to one vote
    per share and a Series C that, except as otherwise required
    by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    authorizing the Series A convertible preferred stock with
    special voting rights, which prohibits us from taking any of the
    following actions, among others, without the prior approval of
    the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of such
    stock:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing the number of members of the Board of Directors above
    11;




 



     
        • 

    
    making any material amendment to our charter or bylaws;




 



     
        • 

    
    engaging in a merger, consolidation or other business
    combination with any other entity;




 



     
        • 

    
    appointing or removing our Chairman of the Board or our CEO.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred
    stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to
    increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover
    attempt;




 



     
        • 

    
    classifying our common stock directors with staggered three year
    terms and having three directors elected by the holders of the
    Series A convertible preferred stock, which may lengthen
    the time required to gain control of our board of directors;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    prohibiting stockholder action by written consent (subject to
    certain exceptions), thereby requiring stockholder action to be
    taken at a meeting of the stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of
    candidates for election to our board of directors or for
    proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at
    stockholder meetings;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring stockholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our
    voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of
    directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as
    a merger or consolidation, a sale of all or substantially all of
    our assets or an amendment to our charter;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring the consent of the holders of at least 75% of the
    outstanding Series B common stock (voting as a separate
    class) to certain share distributions and other corporate
    actions in which the voting power of the Series B common
    stock would be diluted by, for example, issuing shares having
    multiple votes per share as a dividend to holders of
    Series A common stock; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow
    our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to
    current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our
    management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership
    of persons seeking to obtain control of us.





 


    We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan in order to
    encourage anyone seeking to acquire us to negotiate with our
    board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the
    plan is designed to guard



    
    28



Table of Contents




    against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of us, the
    plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying
    any attempts by others to obtain control of us.


 



    Holders
    of any single series of our common stock may not have any
    remedies if any action by our directors or officers has an
    adverse effect on only that series of common
    stock.


 


    Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our charter may
    protect decisions of our board of directors that have a
    disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common
    stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to
    act with due care and in the best interests of all of our
    stockholders, including the holders of all series of our common
    stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving
    differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock
    provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all
    common stockholders regardless of class or series and does not
    have separate or additional duties to any group of stockholders.
    As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be
    required to make a decision that is adverse to the holders of
    one series of common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law
    referred to above, stockholders may not be able to challenge
    these decisions if our board of directors is disinterested and
    adequately informed with respect to these decisions and acts in
    good faith and in the honest belief that it is acting in the
    best interests of all of our stockholders.


 



    The
    exercise by Advance/Newhouse of its registration rights could
    adversely affect the market price of our common
    stock.


 


    As part of the Newhouse Transaction, Advance/Newhouse has been
    granted registration rights covering all of the shares of common
    stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible preferred
    stock issued to Advance/Newhouse in the Newhouse Transaction.
    Advance/Newhouse’s preferred stock is convertible into a
    number of shares equal to one-half of the number of shares of
    common stock that were issued to former DHC stockholders in the
    merger, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. The registration
    rights, which are immediately exercisable, are transferrable
    with the sale or transfer by Advance/Newhouse of blocks of
    shares representing 10% or more of the preferred stock it
    received in the Newhouse Transaction. The exercise of the
    registration rights, and subsequent sale of possibly large
    amounts of our common stock in the public market, could
    materially and adversely affect the market price of our common
    stock.


 



    We
    will not be fully subject to the requirements of
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until the end
    of 2009. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal
    control over financial reporting, our management may not be able
    to provide the requisite certifications and our auditors may
    issue adverse attestations, which could, among other things,
    jeopardize the market’s confidence in our financial
    results.


 


    As DHC accounted for its investment in DCH as an equity
    affiliate, to date Discovery has not been subject to the
    disclosure and internal controls for financial reporting
    requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of
    2002. We will not be subject to those requirements until the end
    of 2009. In the interim, we will be required to document,
    evaluate and test (and possibly remediate) our system of
    internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we
    expect to incur expenses and diversion of management’s time
    throughout this coming year. We cannot be certain as to the
    timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation
    actions or their effect on our operations. If we are not able to
    implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely
    manner or with adequate compliance, management may not be able
    to provide the requisite certifications and our auditors may
    issue adverse attestations, which could harm investors’
    confidence in our financial results and subject us to sanctions
    or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or
    the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Any such action
    could cause our stock price to fall.


 



    John
    C. Malone and Advance/Newhouse will each have significant voting
    power with respect to corporate matters considered by our
    stockholders.


 


    John C. Malone and Advance/Newhouse beneficially own shares of
    our stock representing approximately 23% and 26%, respectively,
    of the aggregate voting power represented by our outstanding
    stock (other than voting power relating to the election of
    directors). With respect to the election of directors,
    Mr. Malone is expected to control approximately 32% of the
    aggregate voting power relating to the election of the eight



    
    29



Table of Contents




    common stock directors (and assuming that the convertible
    preferred stock owned by Advance/Newhouse (the A/N Preferred
    Stock) has not been converted into shares of our common stock).
    The A/N Preferred Stock carries with it the right to designate
    the three preferred stock directors to our board (subject to
    certain conditions), but will not vote with respect to the
    election of the eight common stock directors. Also, under the
    terms of the A/N Preferred Stock, Advance/Newhouse has special
    voting rights with respect to certain enumerated matters,
    including material amendments to the restated charter and
    bylaws, fundamental changes in our business, mergers and other
    business combinations, certain acquisitions and dispositions and
    future issuances of capital stock. Although there is no
    stockholder agreement, voting agreement or any similar
    arrangement between Mr. Malone and Advance/Newhouse, by
    virtue of their respective holdings, each of Mr. Malone and
    Advance/Newhouse likely will have significant influence over the
    outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted
    to our stockholders.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B