Item 1A “Risk Factors” beginning on page 10, as well as
Item 7 "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" beginning on page 18 of this Form 10-K.
    
    Our
forward-looking statements could be wrong in light of these and other risks,
uncertainties and assumptions.  The future events, developments or
results described in this report could turn out to be materially
different.  We have no obligation to publicly update or revise our
forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report and you should
not expect us to do so.
    
    Investors
should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with
securities analysts and others, we do not, by policy, selectively disclose to
them any material, nonpublic information or other confidential commercial
information.  Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that we
agree with any statement or report issued by any securities analyst regardless
of the content of the statement or report.  We do not issue detailed
financial forecasts or projections and we do not, by policy, confirm those
issued by others.  Thus, to the extent that reports issued by
securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports
are not our responsibility.
    
      
         

      
      
        4
        
          
        
      
      
         

      
    
    INTRODUCTORY
NOTE: Unless otherwise
stated, references to "we," "our" and "Dollar Tree" generally refer to Dollar
Tree, Inc. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis.  Unless specifically indicated otherwise, any references to
“2010” or “fiscal 2010”, “2009” or “fiscal 2009”, “2008” or “fiscal 2008”, and
“2007” or “fiscal 2007,” relate to as of or for the years ended January 29,
2011, January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008,
respectively.
    
    AVAILABLE
INFORMATION
    Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on
our website at www.dollartree.com as soon as reasonably practicable after
electronic filing of such reports with the SEC.
    
      
         

      
      
        5
        
          
        
      
      
         

      
    
    PART
I
     
    Item 1.  BUSINESS
    
    Overview
    We are
the leading operator of discount variety stores offering merchandise at the
fixed price of $1.00.  We believe the variety and quality of products
we sell for $1.00 sets us apart from our competitors.  At January 30,
2010, we operated 3,806 discount variety retail stores.  Approximately
3,650 of these stores sell substantially all items for $1.00 or
less.  Substantially all of the remaining stores, operating as Deal$,
sell items for $1.00 or less but also sell items for more than
$1.  Our stores operate under the names of Dollar Tree, Deal$ and
Dollar Bills.
    
    We
believe our optimal store is between 8,000 and 10,000 selling square
feet.  This store size reflects our expanded merchandise offerings and
improved service to our customers.  As we have been expanding our
merchandise offerings, we have added freezers and coolers to approximately 1,400
stores during the past five years to increase traffic and transaction
size.  At January 28, 2006, we operated 2,914 stores in 48
states.  At January 30, 2010, we operated 3,806 stores in 48 states
and the District of Columbia.  Our selling square footage increased
from approximately 23.0 million square feet in January 2006 to 32.3 million
square feet in January 2010.  Our store growth has resulted primarily
from opening new stores with additional growth from mergers and acquisitions,
such as Deal$.
    
    Business
Strategy
    Value Merchandise
Offering.  We strive to exceed our customers' expectations of
the variety and quality of products that they can purchase for $1.00 by offering
items that we believe typically sell for higher prices elsewhere.  We
buy approximately 55% to 60% of our merchandise domestically and import the
remaining 40% to 45%.  Our domestic purchases include closeouts and
promotional merchandise.  We believe our mix of imported and domestic
merchandise affords our buyers flexibility that allows them to consistently
exceed the customer's expectations.  In addition, direct relationships
with manufacturers permit us to select from a broad range of products and
customize packaging, product sizes and package quantities that meet our
customers' needs.
    
    Mix of Basic Variety and Seasonal
Merchandise.  We maintain a balanced selection of products
within traditional variety store categories.  We offer a wide
selection of everyday basic products and we supplement these basic, everyday
items with seasonal, closeout and promotional merchandise.  We attempt
to keep certain basic consumable merchandise in our stores continuously to
establish our stores as a destination and we have slightly increased the mix of
consumable merchandise in order to increase the traffic in our
stores.  Closeout and promotional merchandise is purchased
opportunistically and represents less than 10% of our purchases.
    
    Our
merchandise mix consists of:
    
    
      

             
      
             
      
          
            
              · 
            
            
              consumable
      merchandise, which includes candy and food, basic health and beauty care,
      and household consumables such as paper, plastics and household chemicals
      and in select stores, frozen and refrigerated food;
            
          
             
      
             
      
          
            
              · 
            
            
              variety
      merchandise, which includes toys, durable housewares, gifts, fashion
      health and beauty care, party goods, greeting cards, apparel, and other
      items; and
            
          
             
      
             
      
          
            
              · 
            
            
              seasonal
      goods, which include Easter, Halloween and Christmas merchandise, along
      with summer toys and lawn and garden
  merchandise.
            
          
    
    
    We have
added freezers and coolers to certain stores and increased the amount of
consumable merchandise carried by those stores.  We believe this
initiative helps drive additional transactions and allows us to appeal to a
broader demographic mix.  We have added freezers and coolers to
approximately 200 more stores in 2009.  Therefore, as of January 30,
2010, we have freezers and coolers in approximately 1,400 of our
stores.  We plan to add them to approximately 225 more stores in
2010.  As a result of the installation of freezers and coolers in
select stores, consumable merchandise has grown as a percentage of purchases and
sales and we expect this trend to continue. The following table shows the
percentage of purchases of each major product group for the years ended January
30, 2010 and January 31, 2009:
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        6
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    
    
      

             
      
            
              January
      30,
            
            
              January
      31,
            
          
            
              Merchandise Type
            
            
              2010
            
            
              2009
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Consumable
            
            
              48.1%
            
            
              45.7%
            
          
            
              Variety
      categories
            
            
              46.9%
            
            
              48.8%
            
          
            
              Seasonal
            
            
               5.0%
            
            
               5.5%
            
          
    
    
    At any
point in time, we carry approximately 6,000 items in our stores and as of the
end of 2009 approximately 2,200 of our basic, everyday items are automatically
replenished.  The remaining items are primarily ordered by our store
managers on a weekly basis.  Through automatic replenishment and our
store managers’ ability to order product, each store manager is able to satisfy
the demands of their particular customer base.
    
    Customer Payment
Methods.  All of our stores accept cash, checks, debit cards,
VISA credit cards and Discover and approximately 1,100 stores accept MasterCard
credit cards. We began
accepting VISA credit cards at all of our stores in the fourth quarter of
2007.  Along with the shift to more consumables and the rollout of
freezers and coolers, we have increased the number of stores accepting
Electronic Benefits Transfer(EBT) cards and food stamps (under the Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP”)) to approximately 2,900 stores as of
January 30, 2010.
    
    Convenient Locations and Store
Size.  We primarily focus on opening new stores in strip
shopping centers anchored by mass merchandisers, whose target customers we
believe to be similar to ours.  Our stores have proven successful in
metropolitan areas, mid-sized cities and small towns.  The range of
our store sizes allows us to target a particular location with a store that best
suits that market and takes advantage of available real estate
opportunities.  Our stores are attractively designed and create an
inviting atmosphere for shoppers by using bright lighting, vibrant colors,
decorative signs and background music.  We enhance the store design
with attractive merchandise displays.  We believe this design attracts
new and repeat customers and enhances our image as both a destination and
impulse purchase store.
    
    For more
information on retail locations and retail store leases, see Item 2 "Properties” beginning on page 13 of this Form
10-K.
    
    Profitable Stores with Strong Cash
Flow.  We maintain a disciplined, cost-sensitive approach to
store site selection in order to minimize the initial capital investment
required and maximize our potential to generate high operating margins and
strong cash flows.  We believe that our stores have a relatively small
shopping radius, which allows us to profitably concentrate multiple stores
within a single market.  Our ability to open new stores is dependent
upon, among other factors, locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable
lease terms.
    
    The
strong cash flows generated by our stores allow us to self-fund infrastructure
investment and new stores.  Over the past five years, cash flows from
operating activities have exceeded capital expenditures.
    
    For more
information on our results of operations, see Item 7
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” beginning on page 18 of this Form 10-K.
    
    Cost Control.  We
believe that our substantial buying power at the $1.00 price point and our
flexibility in making sourcing decisions contributes to our successful
purchasing strategy, which includes disciplined, targeted merchandise margin
goals by category.  We also believe our ability to select quality
merchandise helps to minimize markdowns.  We buy products on an
order-by-order basis and have no material long-term purchase contracts or other
assurances of continued product supply or guaranteed product cost.  No
vendor accounted for more than 10% of total merchandise purchased in any of the
past five years.
    
    Our
supply chain systems continue to provide us with valuable sales information to
assist our buyers and improve merchandise allocation to our
stores.  Controlling our inventory levels has resulted in more
efficient distribution and store operations.
    
    Information
Systems.  We believe that investments in technology help us to
increase sales and control costs.  Our inventory management system has
allowed us to improve the efficiency of our supply chain, improve merchandise
flow, increase inventory turnover and control distribution and store operating
costs.  Our automatic replenishment system automatically reorders key
items, based on actual store level sales and inventory.  At the end of
2009, we had approximately 2,200 basic, everyday items on automatic
replenishment.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        7
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Point-of-sale
data allows us to track sales and inventory by merchandise category at the store
level and assists us in planning for future purchases of
inventory.  We believe that this information allows us to ship the
appropriate product to stores at the quantities commensurate with selling
patterns.  Using this point-of-sale data to plan purchases of
inventory has helped us decrease our inventory per square foot in the current
year.  Our inventory turns also increased approximately 25 basis
points in 2009 to over 4 turns for the year.  Inventory turnover has
increased in each of the last five years.
    
    Corporate Culture and
Values.  We believe that honesty and integrity, doing the right
things for the right reasons, and treating people fairly and with respect are
core values within our corporate culture.  We believe that running a
business, and certainly a public company, carries with it a responsibility to be
above reproach when making operational and financial decisions.  Our
executive management team visits and shops our stores like every customer, and
ideas and individual creativity on the part of our associates are encouraged,
particularly from our store managers who know their stores and their
customers.  We have standards for store displays, merchandise
presentation, and store operations. We maintain an open door policy for all
associates. Our distribution centers are operated based on objective measures of
performance and virtually everyone in our store support center is available to
assist associates in the stores and distribution centers.
    
    Our
disclosure committee meets at least quarterly and monitors our internal controls
over financial reporting to ensure that our public filings contain discussions
about the risks our business faces.  We believe that we have the
controls in place to be able to certify our financial
statements.  Additionally, we have complied with the updated listing
requirements for the Nasdaq Stock Market.
    
    Growth
Strategy
    Store Openings and Square Footage
Growth.  The primary factors contributing to our net sales
growth have been new store openings, an active store expansion and remodel
program, and selective mergers and acquisitions.  In the last five
years, net sales increased at a compound annual growth rate of
11.4%.  We expect that the majority of our future sales growth will
come primarily from new store openings and from our store expansion and
relocation program.
    
    The
following table shows the average selling square footage of our stores and the
selling square footage per new store opened over the last five
years.  Our growth and productivity statistics are reported based on
selling square footage because our management believes the use of selling square
footage yields a more accurate measure of store productivity.  The
selling square footage statistics for 2005 through 2009 are estimates based on
the relationship of selling to gross square footage.
      
    
      

            
              Year
            
            
              Number
      of Stores
            
            
              Average
      Selling Square Footage Per Store
            
            
              Average
      Selling Square Footage Per New Store Opened
            
          
            
              2005
            
            
              2,914
            
            
              7,900
            
            
              9,756
            
          
            
              2006
            
            
              3,219
            
            
              8,160
            
            
              8,780
            
          
            
              2007
            
            
              3,411
            
            
              8,300
            
            
              8,480
            
          
            
              2008
            
            
              3,591
            
            
              8,440
            
            
              8,100
            
          
            
              2009
            
            
              3,806
            
            
              8,480
            
            
              8,150
            
          
    
    
    
    We expect
to increase our selling square footage in the future by opening new stores in
underserved markets and strategically increasing our presence in our existing
markets via new store openings and store expansions (expansions include store
relocations).  In fiscal 2010 and beyond, we plan to predominantly
open stores that are approximately 8,000 - 10,000 selling square feet and we
believe this size allows us to achieve our objectives in the markets in which we
plan to expand.  At January 30, 2010, 1,724 of our stores, totaling
59.0% of our selling square footage, were 8,150 selling square feet or
larger.
    
    In
addition to new store openings, we plan to continue our store expansion program
to increase our net sales per store and take advantage of market
opportunities.  We target stores for expansion based on the current
sales per selling square foot and changes in market
opportunities.  Stores targeted for expansion are generally less than
6,000 selling square feet in size.  Store expansions generally
increase the existing store size by approximately 3,500 selling square
feet.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        8
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Since
1995, we have added a total of 609 stores through four mergers and several small
acquisitions.  Our acquisition strategy has been to target companies
that have a similar single-price point concept that has shown success in
operations or companies that provide a strategic advantage.  We
evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in our retail sector as they become
available.
    
    In 2006,
we completed our acquisition of 138 Deal$ stores, which included stores that
offered an expanded assortment of merchandise including items that sell for more
than $1.  These stores provide us an opportunity to leverage our
Dollar Tree infrastructure in the testing of new merchandise concepts, including
higher price points, without disrupting the single-price point model in our
Dollar Tree stores.  Since the acquisition, we have opened new Deal$
stores, including some in new markets, and operate 158 Deal$ stores as of
January 30, 2010.
    
    From time
to time, we also acquire the rights to store leases through bankruptcy
proceedings of certain retailers.  We will take advantage of these
opportunities as they arise in the future.
    
    Merchandising and
Distribution.  Expanding our customer base is important to our
growth plans.  We plan to continue to stock our new stores with the
ever-changing merchandise that our current customers have come to appreciate.
Consumable merchandise typically leads to more frequent return trips to our
stores resulting in increased sales.  The presentation and display of
merchandise in our stores are critical to communicating value to our customers
and creating a more exciting shopping experience.  We believe our
approach to visual merchandising results in higher store traffic, higher sales
volume and an environment that encourages impulse purchases.
    
    A strong
and efficient distribution network is critical to our ability to grow and to
maintain a low-cost operating structure.  In November 2009, we
purchased a new distribution center in San Bernardino, California which will
begin shipping merchandise in April 2010.  This distribution center
will replace the Salt Lake City distribution center which will close when its
lease expires in April 2010.  With the inclusion of our San
Bernardino, California distribution center and the exclusion of our Salt Lake
City distribution center, we believe our distribution center network is capable
of supporting approximately $7.5 billion in annual sales. New distribution
sites, like this one in San Bernardino, California, are strategically located to
reduce stem miles, maintain flexibility and improve efficiency in our store
service areas.
    
    Our
stores receive approximately 90% of their inventory from our distribution
centers via contract carriers.  The remaining store inventory,
primarily perishable consumable items and other vendor-maintained display items,
are delivered directly to our stores from vendors.  For more
information on our distribution center network, see Item 2
“Properties” beginning on page 13 of this Form 10-K.
    
    Competition
    The
retail industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in
the future.  The principal methods of competition include closeout
merchandise, convenience and the quality of merchandise offered to the
customer.  We operate in the discount retail merchandise business,
which is currently and is expected to continue to be highly competitive with
respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and
presentation, and customer service.  Our competitors include
single-price dollar stores, multi-price dollar stores, mass merchandisers,
discount retailers and variety retailers.  In addition, several mass
merchandisers and grocery store chains carry "dollar store" or “dollar zone”
concepts in their stores, which increases competition.  We believe we
differentiate ourselves from other retailers by providing high value, high
quality, low cost merchandise in attractively designed stores that are
conveniently located. Our sales and profits could be reduced by increases in
competition, especially because there are no significant economic barriers for
others to enter our retail sector.
    
    Trademarks
    We are
the owners of several federal service mark registrations including "Dollar
Tree," the "Dollar Tree" logo, the Dollar Tree logo with a “1”, and "One
Price...One Dollar."  We also own a concurrent use registration for
"Dollar Bill$" and the related logo.  During 1997, we acquired the
rights to use trade names previously owned by Everything's A Dollar, a former
competitor in the $1.00 price point industry.  Several trade names
were included in the purchase, including the marks "Everything's $1.00 We Mean
Everything," and "Everything's $1.00."  With the acquisition of Deal$,
we became the owners of the trademark “Deal$”. We have federal trademark
registrations for a variety of private labels that we use to market some of our
product lines.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        9
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Employees
    We
employed approximately 12,480 full-time and 42,000 part-time associates on
January 30, 2010.  Part-time associates work 35 hours per week or
less.  The number of part-time associates fluctuates depending on
seasonal needs.  We consider our relationship with our associates to
be good, and we have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due
to labor disagreements.
    
    Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS
    
    An
investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk.  Any
failure to meet market expectations, including our comparable store sales growth
rate, earnings and earnings per share or new store openings, could cause the
market price of our stock to decline. You should carefully consider the specific
risk factors listed below together with all other information included or
incorporated in this report.  Any of the following risks may
materialize, and additional risks not known to us, or that we now deem
immaterial, may arise.  In such event, our business, financial
condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely
affected.
    
    Our
profitability is vulnerable to cost increases.
    
    Future
increase in costs such as the cost of merchandise, wage levels, shipping rates,
freight costs, fuel costs and store occupancy costs may reduce our
profitability.  As a fixed price retailer, we cannot raise the sale
price of our merchandise to offset cost increases.  We are dependent
on our ability to operate more efficiently or effectively or increase our
comparable store net sales in order to offset inflation.  We can give
no assurance that we will be able to operate more efficiently or increase our
comparable store net sales in the future.  Please see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations," beginning on page 18 of this Form 10-K
for further discussion of the effect of Inflation and Other Economic Factors on
our operations.
    
    Litigation
may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations.
    
    Our
business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers,
suppliers, competitors, shareholders, government agencies, or others through
private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions
or other litigation. The number of employment related class actions filed each
year has continued to increase, and recent changes in Federal law may cause
claims to rise even more. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action
lawsuits, regulatory actions and intellectual property claims, is difficult to
assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of
very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss
relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.
In addition, certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by
us, may result in liability material to our financial statements as a whole or
may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operation
are required. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There
also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could negatively
affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the
allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable.
    
    For a
discussion of current legal matters, please see Item 3. “Legal
Proceedings” beginning on page 14 of this Form 10-K.  Resolution
of certain matters described in that item, if decided against the Company, could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, accrued liabilities
or cash flows.
    
    Changes
in federal, state or local law, or our failure to comply with such laws, could
increase our expenses and expose us to legal risks
    
    Our
business is subject to a wide array of laws and
regulations.  Significant legislative changes, such as the proposed
Employee Free Choice Act and the proposed healthcare legislation, that impact
our relationship with our workforce could increase our expenses and adversely
affect our operations.  Changes in other regulatory areas, such as
consumer credit, privacy and information security, product safety or
environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to
increase.  In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and
regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk,
including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which
could adversely affect our results of operations.  Changes in tax
laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our
reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective tax
rate.
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        10
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    We
could encounter disruptions or additional costs in obtaining and distributing
merchandise.
    
    Our
success depends on the ability of our vendors to supply merchandise and our
ability to transport merchandise to our distribution centers and then ship it to
our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner.  We may not
anticipate, respond to or control all of the challenges of operating our
receiving and distribution systems.  Additionally, if a vendor fails
to deliver on its commitments, we could experience merchandise shortages that
could lead to lost sales.   Some of the factors that could have
an adverse effect on our supply chain systems or costs are:
    
    
      

            
              § Economic conditions.
      Suppliers may encounter financial or other
difficulties.
            
          
            
              § Shipping.  Our
      oceanic shipping schedules may be disrupted or delayed from time to
      time.  We have experienced volatility in shipping rates over the
      past few years and the outlook for shipping rates in 2010 is
      uncertain.
            
          
            
              § Diesel fuel
      costs.  We have experienced significant volatility in
      diesel fuel costs over the past few years and with the current economic
      situation, the outlook for diesel prices in 2010 is
    uncertain.
            
          
            
              § Vulnerability to natural or
      man-made disasters.  A fire, explosion or natural
      disaster at ports or any of our distribution facilities could result in a
      loss of merchandise and impair our ability to adequately stock our
      stores.  Some facilities are especially vulnerable to
      earthquakes, hurricanes or tornadoes.
            
          
            
              § Labor
      disagreement.  Labor disagreements or disruptions may
      result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and increase
      costs.
            
          
            
              § War, terrorism and other
      events.  War and acts of terrorism in the United States,
      or in China or other parts of Asia, where we buy a significant amount of
      our imported merchandise, could disrupt our supply
  chain.
            
          
    
    
    We
may be unable to expand our square footage as profitably as
planned.
    
    We plan
to expand our selling square footage by approximately 6.3% in 2010 to increase
our sales and profits.  Expanding our square footage profitably
depends on a number of uncertainties, including our ability to locate, lease,
build out and open or expand stores in suitable locations on a timely basis
under favorable economic terms.  In addition, our expansion is
dependent upon third-party developers’ abilities to acquire land, obtain
financing, and secure necessary permits and approvals.  Turmoil in the
financial markets has made it difficult for third party developers to obtain
financing for new projects.  We must also open or expand stores within
our established geographic markets, where new or expanded stores may draw sales
away from our existing stores.  We may not manage our expansion
effectively, and our failure to achieve our expansion plans could materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations.
    
    Sales
below our expectations during peak seasons may cause our operating results to
suffer materially.
    
    Our
highest sales periods are the Christmas and Easter seasons.  We
generally realize a disproportionate amount of our net sales and our operating
and net income during the fourth quarter.  In anticipation, we stock
extra inventory and hire many temporary employees to prepare our
stores.  A reduction in sales during these periods could adversely
affect our operating results, particularly operating and net income, to a
greater extent than if a reduction occurred at other times of the
year.  Untimely merchandise delays due to receiving or distribution
problems could have a similar effect.  Sales during the Easter selling
season are materially affected by the timing of the Easter
holiday.  Easter in fiscal 2010 is on April 4th,
while in fiscal 2009 it was on April 12th.  We
believe that the earlier Easter in 2010 could potentially result in $10.0
million of decreased sales in the first quarter of 2010 when compared to the
first quarter of 2009.
    
    Our
sales and profits rely on imported merchandise, which may increase in cost or
become unavailable.
    
    Merchandise
imported directly accounts for approximately 40% to 45% of our total retail
value purchases.  In addition, we believe that a small portion of our
goods purchased from domestic vendors is imported.  China is the
source of a substantial majority of our imports.  Imported goods are
generally less expensive than domestic goods and increase our profit
margins.  A disruption in the flow of our imported merchandise or an
increase in the cost of those goods may significantly decrease our
profits.  Risks associated with our reliance on imported goods
include:
    
    
      

            
              § disruptions
      in the flow of imported goods because of factors such
  as:
            
          
            
              o raw
      material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political
      unrest;
            
          
            
              o problems
      with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages;
      and
            
          
            
              o economic
      crises and international disputes.
            
          
             
      
          
            
              § increases
      in the cost of purchasing or shipping imported merchandise, resulting
      from:
            
          
            
              o increases
      in shipping rates imposed by the trans-Pacific ocean
    carriers;
            
          
            
              o import
      duties, import quotas and other trade sanctions;
            
          
            
              o changes
      in currency exchange rates or policies and local economic conditions,
      including inflation in the country of origin; and
            
          
            
              o failure
      of the United States to maintain normal trade relations with
      China.
            
          
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        11
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    A
downturn in economic conditions could impact our sales.
    
    Deterioration
in economic conditions, such as those caused by a recession, inflation,
higher unemployment, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, cost
increases, as well as adverse weather conditions or terrorism, could reduce
consumer spending or cause customers to shift their spending to products we
either do not sell or do not sell as profitably.  Adverse economic
conditions could disrupt consumer spending and significantly reduce our sales,
decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns or reduce our
profitability due to lower margins.
    
    Our
profitability is affected by the mix of products we sell.
    
    Our gross
profit could decrease if we increase the proportion of higher cost goods we sell
in the future.  In recent years, the percentage of our sales from
higher cost consumable products has increased and is likely to increase slightly
in 2010.  As a result, our gross profit will decrease unless we are
able to maintain our current merchandise cost sufficiently to offset any
decrease in our product margin percentage.  We can give no assurance
that we will be able to do so.
    
    Pressure
from competitors may reduce our sales and profits.
    
    The
retail industry is highly competitive.  The marketplace is highly
fragmented as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a
variety of store formats and merchandising strategies.  We expect
competition to increase in the future because there are no significant economic
barriers for others to enter our retail sector.  Many of our current
or potential competitors have greater financial resources than we
do.  We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to compete
successfully against existing or future competitors.  Please see Item 1, “Business,” beginning on page 6 of this Form 10-K for
further discussion of the effect of competition on our operations.
    
    The
price of our common shares as traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market may be
volatile.
    
    Our stock
price may fluctuate substantially as a result of factors beyond our control,
including but not limited to, general economic and stock market conditions,
risks relating to our business and industry as discussed above, strategic
actions by us or our competitors, variations in our quarterly operating
performance, our future sales or purchases of our common shares, and investor
perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common shares
relative to other investment alternatives.
    
    Certain
provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay or discourage
a takeover attempt that may be in a shareholder's best interest.
     
    Our
articles of incorporation and bylaws currently contain provisions that may delay
or discourage a takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his best
interest. These provisions, among other things:
     
    
      

            
              · provide
      that only the Board of Directors, chairman or president may call special
      meetings of the shareholders;
            
          
            
              · establish
      certain advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for
      election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at
      shareholders' meetings;
            
          
            
              · permit
      the Board of Directors, without further action of the shareholders, to
      issue and fix the terms of preferred stock, which may have rights senior
      to those of the common stock.
            
          
    
     
           
However, we believe that these provisions allow our Board of Directors
to negotiate a higher price in the event of a takeover attempt which would be in
the best interest of our shareholders.
     
           
Our Articles of Incorporation also classify our Board of Directors into three
classes.  However, our Board of Directors will recommend at the Annual
Meeting in 2010 that shareholders support an amendment to our Articles of
Incorporation to declassify the Board.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        12
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Item 1B