. Risk Factors" beginning on page 12 of this Form 10-K and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 26 of this Form 10-K.Growth StrategyStore Openings and Square Footage Growth.  The primary factors contributing to our net sales growth have been new store openings, an active store expansion and remodel program, and selective mergers and acquisitions.  In the last five years, net sales increased at a compound annual growth rate of 23.6%, including the addition of Family Dollar.  We expect that the majority of our future sales growth will come primarily from new store openings in our Dollar Tree and Family Dollar banners and from our store expansion and relocation program.At January 28, 2012, we operated 4,351 stores in the United States and Canada.  At January 30, 2016, we operated 13,626 stores in 48 states and the District of Columbia, as well as 225 stores in Canada.  Our selling square footage increased from approximately 37.6 million square feet in January 2012 to 108.4 million square feet in January 2016.  Our store growth has resulted from opening new stores and our July 2015 acquisition of more than 8,200 Family Dollar stores.The following table shows the average selling square footage of our stores and the selling square footage per new store opened over the last five years.  Our growth and productivity statistics are reported based on selling square footage because our management believes the use of selling square footage yields a more accurate measure of store productivity.Year Number of Stores Average Selling Square Footage Per Store Average Selling Square Footage Per New Store Opened2011 4,351 8,640 8,3602012 4,671 8,660 8,0602013 4,992 8,660 8,0202014 5,367 8,660 8,0602015 13,851 7,820 7,730We expect to increase the selling square footage in our stores in the future by opening new stores in underserved markets and strategically increasing our presence in our existing markets via new store openings and store expansions (expansions include store relocations).  In fiscal 2016 and beyond, we plan to predominantly open Dollar Tree stores that are approximately 8,000 - 10,000 selling square feet and Family Dollar stores that are approximately 6,000 - 8,000 selling square feet.  We believe these store sizes allow us to achieve our objectives in the markets in which we plan to expand.  In addition to new store openings, we plan to continue our Dollar Tree store expansion program to increase our net sales per store and take advantage of market opportunities.  We target stores for expansion based on the current sales per selling square foot and changes in market opportunities.  Stores targeted for expansion are generally less than 6,000 selling square feet in size.  Store expansions generally increase the existing store size by approximately 2,750 selling square feet.  At January 30, 2016, approximately 3,243 of our Dollar Tree stores, totaling 63% of our Dollar Tree banner selling square footage, were 8,000 selling square feet or larger.Since 1995, we have added a total of 695 stores through several mergers and acquisitions, excluding our acquisition of Family Dollar.  Our acquisition strategy has been to target companies that have a similar single-price point concept that have shown success in operations or companies that provide a strategic advantage.  We evaluate potential acquisition opportunities as they become available.  On July 6, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Family Dollar which allowed us to create a diversified company with complementary business models.  See "Note 2 - Acquisition" in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” beginning on page 53 of this Form 10-K.10From time to time, we also acquire the rights to store leases through bankruptcy or other proceedings.  We will continue to take advantage of these opportunities as they arise depending upon several factors including their fit within our location and selling square footage size parameters.Merchandising and Distribution.  Expanding our customer base is important to our growth plans.  We plan to continue to stock our stores with a compelling mix of ever-changing merchandise that our customers have come to appreciate.  Consumable merchandise typically leads to more frequent return trips to our stores resulting in increased sales.  The presentation and display of merchandise in our stores are critical to communicating value to our customers and creating a more exciting shopping experience.  We believe our approach to visual merchandising results in higher sales volume and an environment that encourages impulse purchases.A strong and efficient distribution network is critical to our ability to grow and to maintain a low-cost operating structure.  In 2015, we began construction on our Cherokee County, South Carolina distribution center, which will be 1.5 million square feet and fully automated.  We expect this facility to be operational in the third quarter of 2016.  In addition, we are expanding our Stockton, California distribution center by 0.3 million square feet.  We expect this project to be completed during the second quarter of 2016.  In 2014, we expanded our Joliet, Illinois distribution center to 1.5 million square feet.  We are also in the process of enabling our distribution centers to ship merchandise to both Dollar Tree and Family Dollar stores.  We expect our first pilot facility to be operational in the third quarter of 2016.  We believe our distribution center network is currently capable of supporting approximately $24.1 billion in annual sales in the United States.  New distribution sites are strategically located to reduce stem miles, maintain flexibility and improve efficiency in our store service areas.  We also are a party to an agreement which provides distribution services from two facilities in Canada.Our Dollar Tree stores receive approximately 90% of their inventory from our distribution centers via contract carriers and our Family Dollar stores receive approximately 72% of their inventory from our distribution centers.  The remaining store inventory, primarily perishable consumable items and other vendor-maintained display items, are delivered directly to our stores from vendors.  Our Family Dollar stores receive approximately 16% of their merchandise from McLane Company, Inc.  For more information on our distribution center network, see "Item 2. Properties" beginning on page 18 of this Form 10-K.CompetitionOur segment of the retail industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future.  We operate in the discount retail business, which is currently and is expected to continue to be highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation and customer service.  Our competitors include single-price dollar stores, multi-price dollar stores, mass merchandisers, discount retailers, drug stores, convenience stores, independently-operated discount stores, and a wide variety of other retailers.  In addition, several competitors have sections within their stores devoted to "one dollar" price point merchandise, which further increases competition.  We believe we differentiate ourselves from other retailers by providing high-value, high-quality, low-cost merchandise in attractively-designed stores that are conveniently located.  Our sales and profits could be reduced by increases in competition.  There are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector.TrademarksWe are the owners of several federal service mark registrations including "Dollar Tree," the "Dollar Tree" logo, the Dollar Tree logo with a “1” and "One Price...One Dollar."  In addition, we own a concurrent use registration for "Dollar Bill$" and the related logo.  We also acquired the rights to use trade names previously owned by Everything's A Dollar, a former competitor in the $1.00 price point industry.  Several trade names were included in the purchase, including the marks "Everything's $1.00 We Mean Everything!" and "Everything's $1.00."  With the acquisition of Deals, we became the owners of the trademark "Deal$.”  With the acquisition of Dollar Giant, we became the owners of the trademark “Dollar Giant” and others in Canada.  With the acquisition of Family Dollar, we became the owners of the trademarks "Family Dollar," "Family Dollar Stores" and other names and designs of certain merchandise sold in Family Dollar stores, such as "Family Gourmet," "Family Pet," "Kidgets" and "Outdoors by Design."  We have federal trademark registrations for a variety of private labels that we use to market some of our product lines.  Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.EmployeesWe employed approximately 55,300 full-time and 112,500 part-time associates on January 30, 2016.  Part-time associates work an average of less than 30 hours per week.  The number of part-time associates fluctuates depending on seasonal needs.  We consider our relationship with our associates to be good, and we have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.11Item 1A.  RISK FACTORSAn investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk.  Any failure to meet market expectations, including our comparable store sales growth rate, earnings and earnings per share or new store openings, could cause the market price of our stock to decline.  You should carefully consider the specific risk factors listed below together with all other information included or incorporated in this report.  Any of the following risks may materialize, and additional risks not known to us, or that we now deem immaterial, may arise.  In such event, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected.Our profitability is vulnerable to cost increases.Future increases in costs such as the cost of merchandise, wage and benefit costs, merchandise loss (due to theft, damage, or errors), shipping rates, freight costs, fuel costs and store occupancy costs may reduce our profitability.  The minimum wage has increased or is scheduled to increase in multiple states and local jurisdictions and there is a possibility that Congress will increase the federal minimum wage.  The Department of Labor is expected to issue regulations this year that may result in fewer of our associates being exempt from overtime pay requirements.  In our Dollar Tree segment, we do not raise the sales price of our merchandise to offset cost increases because we are committed to selling primarily at the $1.00 price point to continue to provide value to the customer.  We are dependent on our ability to adjust our product assortment, to operate more efficiently or to increase our comparable store net sales in order to offset inflation or other cost increases.  We can give no assurance that we will be able to operate more efficiently or increase our comparable store net sales in the future.  Although Family Dollar, unlike Dollar Tree, can raise the price of merchandise, customers may buy fewer products because of a higher price.  Please see "Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 26 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the effect of Inflation and Other Economic Factors on our operations.Integrating Family Dollar’s operations with ours may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings of the Acquisition may not be realized.The success of the Family Dollar acquisition (the “Acquisition”), including anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses and cultures of the Family Dollar segment into our company.  It is possible that the integration process will take longer than anticipated, and could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs (including costs incurred with respect to the divested stores and related services), ongoing diversion of management attention, increased competition, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees.  If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.  In addition, the actual cost savings of the Acquisition could be less than anticipated.A downturn in economic conditions could impact our sales.Deterioration in economic conditions, such as those caused by a recession, inflation, higher unemployment, consumer debt levels, cost increases, as well as adverse weather conditions or terrorism, could reduce consumer spending or cause customers to shift their spending to products we either do not sell or do not sell as profitably.  Adverse economic conditions could disrupt consumer spending and significantly reduce our sales, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns or reduce our profitability due to lower margins.A significant disruption in our computer and technology systems could adversely affect our results of operation or business.We rely extensively on our computer and technology systems to manage inventory, process credit card and customer transactions and summarize results.  Systems may be subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events.  If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process customer transactions and may receive negative publicity, which could adversely affect our results of operation or business.12If we are unable to secure our customers’ credit card and confidential information, or other private data relating to our associates, suppliers or our business, we could be subject to negative publicity, costly government enforcement actions or private litigation, which could damage our business reputation and adversely affect our results of operation or business.We have procedures and technology in place to safeguard our customers’ debit and credit card information, our associates’ private data, suppliers’ data, and our business records and intellectual property.  Despite these measures, criminals are constantly devising schemes to circumvent safeguards and we may be vulnerable to, and unable to detect and appropriately respond to, data security breaches and data loss, including cyber-security attacks.  Other sophisticated retailers have recently suffered serious security breaches.  If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to negative publicity, government enforcement actions, private litigation, or costly response measures.  In addition, our reputation within the business community and with our customers may be affected, which could result in our customers discontinuing the use of debit or credit cards in our stores or not shopping in our stores altogether.  This could have an adverse effect on our results of operation or business.Our growth is dependent on our ability to increase sales in existing stores and to expand our square footage profitably.Existing store sales growth is critical to good operating results and is dependent on a variety of factors including merchandise quality, relevance and availability, store operations and customer satisfaction.  In addition, increased competition could adversely affect our sales.  Our highest sales periods are during the Christmas and Easter seasons, and we generally realize a disproportionate amount of our net sales and our operating and net income during the fourth quarter.  In anticipation, we stock extra inventory and hire many temporary employees to prepare our stores.  A reduction in sales during these periods could adversely affect our operating results, particularly operating and net income, to a greater extent than if a reduction occurred at other times of the year.  Untimely merchandise delays due to receiving or distribution problems could have a similar effect.  When Easter is observed earlier in the year, the selling season is shorter and, as a result, our sales could be adversely affected.  Easter was observed on April 20, 2014, April 5, 2015, and will be observed on March 27, 2016. Expanding our square footage profitably depends on a number of uncertainties, including our ability to locate, lease, build out and open or expand stores in suitable locations on a timely basis under favorable economic terms.  Obtaining an increasing number of profitable stores is an ever increasing challenge.  In addition, our expansion is dependent upon third-party developers’ abilities to acquire land, obtain financing, and secure necessary permits and approvals.  It remains difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects due to the recent turmoil in the financial markets.  We also open or expand stores within our established geographic markets, where new or expanded stores may draw sales away from our existing stores.  We may not manage our expansion effectively, and our failure to achieve our expansion plans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks associated with our domestic and foreign suppliers from whom our products are sourced could affect our financial performance.We are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner.  If a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments due to financial or other difficulties, we could experience merchandise shortages which could lead to lost sales or increased merchandise costs if alternative sources must be used.Merchandise imported directly accounts for approximately 41% to 43% of our Dollar Tree segment's total retail value purchases and 22% to 24% of our Family Dollar segment's total retail value purchases.  In addition, we believe that a portion of our goods purchased from domestic vendors is imported.  China is the source of a substantial majority of our imports.  Imported goods are generally less expensive than domestic goods and increase our profit margins.  A disruption in the flow of our imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those goods may significantly decrease our profits.  Risks associated with our reliance on imported goods may include disruptions in the flow of or increases in the cost of imported goods because of factors such as:•raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest;•an increase in duties or tariffs;•economic crises and international disputes;•changes in currency exchange rates or policies and local economic conditions, including inflation in the country of     origin; and•failure of the United States to maintain normal trade relations with China.13We could encounter disruptions in our distribution network or additional costs in distributing merchandise.Our success is dependent on our ability to transport merchandise to our distribution centers and then ship it to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner.  We may not anticipate, respond to or control all of the challenges of operating our receiving and distribution systems.  Additionally, if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, we could experience merchandise shortages that could lead to lost sales or increased costs.  Some of the factors that could have an adverse effect on our distribution network or costs are:•Shipping disruption.  Our oceanic shipping schedules may be disrupted or delayed from time to time.•Shipping costs.  We could experience increases in shipping rates imposed by the trans-Pacific ocean carriers.  Changesin import duties, import quotas and other trade sanctions could increase our costs.•Efficient Operations.  Distribution centers and other aspects of our distribution network are difficult to operateefficiently and we could experience a reduction in operating efficiency.•Diesel fuel costs.  We have experienced volatility in diesel fuel costs over the past few years.•Vulnerability to natural or man-made disasters.  A fire, explosion or natural disaster at a port or any of our distributionfacilities could result in a loss of merchandise and impair our ability to adequately stock our stores.  Some facilities are     vulnerable to earthquakes, hurricanes or tornadoes.•Labor disagreement.  Labor disagreements, disruptions or strikes may result in delays in the delivery of merchandiseto our distribution centers or stores and increase costs.•War, terrorism and other events.  War and acts of terrorism in the United States, the Middle East, or in China or otherparts of Asia, where we buy a significant amount of our imported merchandise, could disrupt our supply chain orincrease our transportation costs.•Economic conditions.  Suppliers may encounter financial or other difficulties.Our profitability is affected by the mix of products we sell.Our gross profit margin could decrease if we increase the proportion of higher cost goods we sell in the future.  In recent years, the percentage of our sales from higher cost consumable products has increased and we can give no assurance that this trend will not continue.  As a result, our gross profit margin could decrease unless we are able to maintain our current merchandise cost sufficiently to offset any decrease in our product margin percentage.  We can give no assurance that we will be able to do so.In our Family Dollar segment, our success also depends on our ability to select and obtain sufficient quantities of relevant merchandise at prices that allow us to sell such merchandise at profitable and appropriate prices.  A sales price that is too high causes products to be less attractive to our customers and our sales at Family Dollar could suffer.  We are continuing to implement our everyday low price strategy at Family Dollar to drive customer loyalty and have a strategic pricing team to improve our value and to increase profitability.  Inability to successfully implement our pricing strategies at Family Dollar could have a negative effect on our business.In addition, our Family Dollar segment has a substantial number of private brand items and the number of items has been increasing.  We believe our success in maintaining broad market acceptance of our private brands depends on many factors, including our pricing, costs, quality and customer perception.  We may not achieve or maintain our expected sales for our private brands and, as a result, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted.  Additionally, the increased number of private brands could negatively impact our existing relationships with our non-private brand suppliers.Pressure from competitors may reduce our sales and profits.The retail industry is highly competitive.  The marketplace is highly fragmented as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store formats and merchandising strategies.  We expect competition to increase in the future.  There are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector.  Some of our current or potential competitors have greater financial resources than we do.  We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors.  Please see "Item 1. Business" beginning on page 6 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the effect of competition on our operations.Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business is subject to the risk of litigation involving employees, consumers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, government agencies, or others through private actions, class actions, governmental investigations, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation.  Our products could also cause illness or injury, harm our reputation, and subject us to litigation.  For example, we are currently defendants in national and state employment-related class and collective actions, litigation concerning injury from products and a governmental investigation by the Consumer Products Safety Commission.  14The outcome of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify.  Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits or proceedings may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.  In addition, certain of these matters, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in an expense that may be material to our financial statements as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operation are required.  The cost to defend current and future litigation or proceedings may be significant.  There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation, including litigation related to product or food safety, customer information and environmental or safety requirements, which could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable.For a discussion of current legal matters, please see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" beginning on page 21 of this Form 10-K and "Note 5 - Commitments and Contingencies" under the caption "Contingencies" in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" beginning on page 59 of this Form 10-K.  Resolution of these matters, if decided against the Company, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, accrued liabilities or cash flows.Changes in federal, state or local law, or our failure to comply with such laws, could increase our expenses and expose us to legal risks.Our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  The Department of Labor is expected to issue regulations this year that may result in fewer of our associates being exempt from overtime pay requirements.  The minimum wage has increased or is scheduled to increase in multiple states and local jurisdictions and there is a possibility that Congress will increase the federal minimum wage.  Significant legislative changes, such as the health-care legislation, that impact our relationship with our workforce could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations.  Changes in other regulatory areas, such as consumer credit, privacy and information security, product and food safety, worker safety or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase or product recalls.  In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  Changes in tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective tax rate.Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to attract and retain qualified associates and key personnel.Our growth and performance is dependent on the skills, experience and contributions of our associates, executives and key personnel.  Various factors, including our recent merger, overall labor availability, wage rates, regulatory or legislative impacts, and benefit costs could impact our ability to attract and retain qualified associates at our stores, distribution centers and corporate offices.Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay or discourage a change of control transaction that may be in a shareholder’s best interest.Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws currently contain provisions that may delay or discourage a takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his best interest.  These provisions, among other things:•provide that only the Board of Directors, chairman or president may call special meetings of the shareholders;•establish certain advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for shareholderproposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings; and•permit the Board of Directors, without further action of the shareholders, to issue and fix the terms of preferred stock,which may have rights senior to those of the common stock.However, we believe that these provisions allow our Board of Directors to negotiate a higher price in the event of a takeover attempt which would be in the best interest of our shareholders.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to obtain additional financing, restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures.In connection with the Acquisition, we substantially increased our indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations and have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position.  As of January 30, 2016, our total indebtedness is $7,465.5 million.  In addition, we have $1,250.0 million of additional borrowing availability under our new revolving credit facility, less amounts outstanding for letters of credit totaling $123.0 million.Our high level of debt could have significant consequences, including the following:•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or15other general corporate purposes;•requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments, instead of other purposes,thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;•limiting our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;•imposing restrictive covenants on our operations;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors carrying less debt; and•making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures.In addition, our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital.  Our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations.  There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.  We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to fund our day-to-day operations or to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and other cash requirements, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.  We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  The agreements that govern our indebtedness restrict (a) our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions and (b) our ability to raise debt capital to be used to repay our indebtedness when it becomes due.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations.If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, holders of the notes (and lenders under any of our existing and future indebtedness) could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing such borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, in each case, which could result in your losing your investment.The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to pursue our business strategies, and could adversely affect our capital resources, financial condition and liquidity.The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to:•incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness;•declare or pay dividends or make other distributions with respect to, or purchase or otherwise acquire or retire forvalue, equity interests;•make principal payments on, or redeem or repurchase, subordinated debt;•make loans, advances or other investments;•incur liens;•sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;•enter into sale and lease-back transactions;•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; and•enter into transactions with affiliates.16In addition, certain of these agreements require us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants.  Our ability to satisfy these financial maintenance covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet them.A breach of the covenants under these agreements could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us having to repay our borrowings before their due dates.  Such default may allow the debt holders to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies.  If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or if we were to experience difficulty in refinancing the debt prior to maturity, our results of operations or financial condition could be materially affected.  In addition, an event of default under our credit facilities may permit the lenders under our credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under such credit facilities.  Furthermore, if we are unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our credit facilities, those lenders may be able to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness.  In the event our lenders or holders of notes accelerate the repayment of such borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness.As a result of these restrictions, we may be:•limited in how we conduct our business;•unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or•unable to compete effectively, take advantage of new business opportunities or grow in accordance with our plans.Our variable-rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly.Certain of our indebtedness, including borrowings under our new revolving credit facility, is subject to variable rates of interest and exposes us to interest rate risk.  If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease.  An increase (decrease) of 1.0% on the interest rate would result in an increase (decrease) of $25.2 million in annual interest expense.  Although we may enter into interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating- for fixed-rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot assure you we will be able to do so.Item 1B