Item 1A “Risk Factors” beginning on page 10, as well as Item 7 "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 19 of this Form 10-K.




Our forward-looking statements could be wrong in light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  The future events, developments or results described in this report could turn out to be materially different.  We have no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report and you should not expect us to do so.




Investors should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts and others, it is against our policy to selectively disclose to them any material, nonpublic information or other confidential commercial information.  Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any securities analyst regardless of the content of the statement or report as we have a policy against confirming information issued by others.  Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.




  



4







  




INTRODUCTORY NOTE: Unless otherwise stated, references to "we," "our" and "Dollar Tree" generally refer to Dollar Tree, Inc. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  Unless specifically indicated otherwise, any references to “2012” or “fiscal 2012”, “2011” or “fiscal 2011”, “2010” or “fiscal 2010”, and “2009” or “fiscal 2009”, relate to as of or for the years ended February 2, 2013, January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010,
respectively.




AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on our website at www.dollartree.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of such reports with the SEC.




  



5







  




PART I

 

Item 1.  BUSINESS




Overview

We are the leading operator of discount variety stores offering merchandise at the fixed price of $1.00.  We believe the variety and quality of products we sell for $1.00 sets us apart from our competitors.  At January 28, 2012, we operated 4,351 discount variety retail stores.  Our stores operate under the names of Dollar Tree, Deal$, Dollar Tree Deal$, Dollar Giant and Dollar Bills.  Approximately 4,168 of these stores sell substantially all items for $1.00 or less in the United States and $1.25(CAD) or less in Canada.  Substantially all of the remaining stores, operating as Deal$, sell items for $1.00 or less but also sell items for more than $1.




We believe our optimal store size is between 8,000 and 10,000 selling square feet.  This store size provides the appropriate amount of space for our broad merchandise offerings while allowing us to provide great service to our customers.  As we have been expanding our merchandise offerings, we have added freezers and coolers to approximately 2,220 stores to increase sales and shopping frequency.  At February 2, 2008, we operated 3,411 stores in 48 states.  At January 28, 2012, we operated 4,252 stores in 48 states and the District of Columbia, as well as 99 stores in Canada.  Our selling square footage increased from approximately 28.4 million square feet in February
2008 to 37.6 million square feet in January 2012.  Our store growth has resulted primarily from opening new stores and the acquisition of Dollar Giant.




Business Strategy

Value Merchandise Offering.  We strive to exceed our customers' expectations of the variety and quality of products that they can purchase for $1.00 by offering items that we believe typically sell for higher prices elsewhere.  We buy approximately 58% to 60% of our merchandise domestically and import the remaining 40% to 42%.  Our domestic purchases include basic, seasonal, closeouts and promotional merchandise.  We believe our mix of imported and domestic merchandise affords our buyers flexibility that allows them to consistently exceed the customer's expectations.  In addition, direct relationships with
manufacturers permit us to select from a broad range of products and customize packaging, product sizes and package quantities that meet our customers' needs.




Mix of Basic Variety and Seasonal Merchandise.  We maintain a balanced selection of products within traditional variety store categories.  We offer a wide selection of everyday basic products and we supplement these basic, everyday items with seasonal, closeout and promotional merchandise.  We attempt to keep certain basic consumable merchandise in our stores continuously to establish our stores as a destination and we have slightly increased the mix of consumable merchandise in order to increase the traffic in our stores.  Closeout and promotional merchandise is purchased opportunistically and represents less than 10%
of our purchases.




Our merchandise mix consists of:







  
  


· 


consumable merchandise, which includes candy and food, health and beauty care, and household consumables such as paper, plastics and household chemicals and in select stores, frozen and refrigerated food;


  
  


· 


variety merchandise, which includes toys, durable housewares, gifts,  party goods, greeting cards, softlines, and other items; and


  
  


· 


seasonal goods, which include Easter, Halloween and Christmas merchandise.







We have added freezers and coolers to certain stores and increased the amount of consumable merchandise carried by those stores.  We believe this initiative helps drive additional transactions and allows us to appeal to a broader demographic mix.  We have added freezers and coolers to 380 additional stores in 2011.  Therefore, as of January 28, 2012, we have freezers and coolers in 2,220 of our stores.  We plan to add them to 325 more stores in 2012.  As a result of the installation of freezers and coolers in select stores, consumable merchandise has grown as a percentage of purchases and sales and we expect this trend to continue. The following table shows the
percentage of sales of each major product group for the years ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011:









  



6







  









  

January 28,


January 29,



Merchandise Type


2012


2011


  
  
  


Consumable


50.8%


49.5%



Variety categories


44.6%


45.8%



Seasonal


 4.6%


 4.7%







At any point in time, we carry approximately 6,200 items in our stores and as of the end of 2011 approximately 3,400 of our basic, everyday items are automatically replenished.  The remaining items are primarily ordered by our store managers on a weekly basis.  Through automatic replenishment and our store managers’ ability to order product, each store manager is able to satisfy the demands of their particular customer base.




Customer Payment Methods.  All of our stores accept cash, checks, debit cards, VISA credit cards, Discover and American Express and approximately 1,140 stores accept MasterCard credit cards.  Along with the shift to more consumables and the rollout of freezers and coolers, we have increased the number of stores accepting Electronic Benefits Transfer(EBT) cards and food stamps (under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP”)) to approximately 3,860 stores as of January 28, 2012.




Convenient Locations and Store Size.  We primarily focus on opening new stores in strip shopping centers anchored by mass merchandisers or grocers, whose target customers we believe to be similar to ours.  Our stores have proven successful in metropolitan areas, mid-sized cities and small towns.  The range of our store sizes allows us to target a particular location with a store that best suits that market and takes advantage of available real estate opportunities.  Our stores are attractively designed and create an inviting atmosphere for shoppers by using bright lighting, vibrant colors and decorative
signs.  We enhance the store design with attractive merchandise displays.  We believe this design attracts new and repeat customers and enhances our image as both a destination and impulse purchase store.




For more information on retail locations and retail store leases, see Item 2 "Properties” beginning on page 13 of this Form 10-K.




Profitable Stores with Strong Cash Flow.  We maintain a disciplined, cost-sensitive approach to store site selection in order to minimize the initial capital investment required and maximize our potential to generate high operating margins and strong cash flows.  We believe that our stores have a relatively small shopping radius, which allows us to profitably concentrate multiple stores within a single market.  Our ability to open new stores is dependent upon, among other factors, locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable lease terms.




The strong cash flows generated by our stores allow us to self-fund infrastructure investment and new stores.  Over the past five years, cash flows from operating activities have exceeded capital expenditures.




For more information on our results of operations, see Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” beginning on page 19 of this Form 10-K.




Cost Control.  We believe that our substantial buying power at the $1.00 price point and our flexibility in making sourcing decisions contributes to our successful purchasing strategy, which includes targeted merchandise margin goals by category.  We also believe our ability to select quality merchandise helps to minimize markdowns.  We buy products on an order-by-order basis and have no material long-term purchase contracts or other assurances of continued product supply or guaranteed product cost.  No vendor accounted for more than 10% of total merchandise purchased in any of the past five years.




Our supply chain systems continue to provide us with valuable sales information to assist our buyers and improve merchandise allocation to our stores.  Controlling our inventory levels has resulted in more efficient distribution and store operations.




Information Systems.  We believe that investments in technology help us to increase sales and control costs.  Our inventory management system has allowed us to improve the efficiency of our supply chain, improve merchandise flow, increase inventory turnover and control distribution and store operating costs.  Our automatic replenishment system replenishes key items, based on actual store level sales and inventory.  At the end of 2011, we had approximately 3,400 basic, everyday items on automatic replenishment.




Point-of-sale data allows us to track sales and inventory by merchandise category at the store level and assists us in planning for future purchases of inventory.  We believe that this information allows us to ship the appropriate product to stores at the quantities commensurate with selling patterns.  Using this point-of-sale data to plan purchases of inventory has helped us increase our inventory turns in each of the last five years.  Our inventory turns were 4.2 in 2011.






  



7







  



Corporate Culture and Values.  We believe that honesty and integrity, doing the right things for the right reasons, and treating people fairly and with respect are core values within our corporate culture.  We believe that running a business, and certainly a public company, carries with it a responsibility to be above reproach when making operational and financial decisions.  Our executive management team visits and shops our stores like every customer, and ideas and individual creativity on the part of our associates are encouraged, particularly from our store managers who know their stores and their customers.  We have
standards for store displays, merchandise presentation, and store operations.  We maintain an open door policy for all associates.  Our distribution centers are operated based on objective measures of performance and virtually everyone in our store support center is available to assist associates in the stores and distribution centers.




Our disclosure committee meets at least quarterly and monitors our internal controls over financial reporting to ensure that our public filings contain discussions about the risks our business faces.  We believe that we have the controls in place to be able to certify our financial statements.  Additionally, we have complied with the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Stock Market.




Growth Strategy

Store Openings and Square Footage Growth.  The primary factors contributing to our net sales growth have been new store openings, an active store expansion and remodel program, and selective mergers and acquisitions.  In the last five years, net sales increased at a compound annual growth rate of 11.8%.  We expect that the majority of our future sales growth will come primarily from new store openings and from our store expansion and relocation program.




The following table shows the average selling square footage of our stores and the selling square footage per new store opened over the last five years.  Our growth and productivity statistics are reported based on selling square footage because our management believes the use of selling square footage yields a more accurate measure of store productivity.

 
 





Year


Number of Stores


Average Selling Square Footage Per Store


Average Selling Square Footage Per New Store Opened



2007


3,411


8,330


8,480



2008


3,591


8,440


8,100



2009


3,806


8,480


7,950



2010


4,101


8,570


8,400



2011


4,351


8,640


8,360










We expect to increase our selling square footage in the future by opening new stores in underserved markets and strategically increasing our presence in our existing markets via new store openings and store expansions (expansions include store relocations).  In fiscal 2011 and beyond, we plan to predominantly open stores that are approximately 8,000 - 10,000 selling square feet and we believe this size allows us to achieve our objectives in the markets in which we plan to expand.  At January 28, 2012, approximately 2,360 of our stores, totaling 65.4% of our selling square footage, were 8,000 selling square feet or larger.




We also continue to grow our Deal$ format, which offers an expanded assortment of merchandise including items that sell for more than $1.00.  These stores provide us an opportunity to leverage our Dollar Tree infrastructure in different merchandise concepts, including higher price points, without disrupting the single-price point model in our Dollar Tree stores.  We operated 182 Deal$ stores as of January 28, 2012.




In addition to new store openings, we plan to continue our store expansion program to increase our net sales per store and take advantage of market opportunities.  We target stores for expansion based on the current sales per selling square foot and changes in market opportunities.  Stores targeted for expansion are generally less than 6,000 selling square feet in size.  Store expansions generally increase the existing store size by approximately 3,700 selling square feet.






  



8







  



Since 1995, we have added a total of 695 stores through several mergers and acquisitions.  Our acquisition strategy has been to target companies that have a similar single-price point concept that have shown success in operations or companies that provide a strategic advantage.  We evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in our retail sector as they become available.




In November 2010, we completed our acquisition of 86 Dollar Giant stores based in Vancouver, British Columbia.  These stores offer a wide assortment of quality general merchandise, contemporary seasonal goods and everyday consumables, all priced at $1.25 (CAD) or less.  The stores that we acquired operated in the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Ontario, Alberta and Saskatchewan and we now also have a store in Manitoba.  This is the first expansion of our retail operations outside of the United States and provides us with a proven management team and distribution network as well as additional potential store growth in a new market.




From time to time, we also acquire the rights to store leases through bankruptcy or other proceedings.  We will continue to take advantage of these opportunities as they arise depending upon several factors including their fit within our location and selling square footage size parameters.




Merchandising and Distribution.  Expanding our customer base is important to our growth plans.  We plan to continue to stock our new stores with a compelling mix of ever-changing merchandise that our current customers have come to appreciate.  Consumable merchandise typically leads to more frequent return trips to our stores resulting in increased sales.  The presentation and display of merchandise in our stores are critical to communicating value to our customers and creating a more exciting shopping experience.  We believe our approach to visual merchandising results in higher sales volume and an environment
that encourages impulse purchases.




A strong and efficient distribution network is critical to our ability to grow and to maintain a low-cost operating structure.  In 2011, we expanded our Savannah distribution center to 1.0 million square feet.  In 2009, we purchased a new distribution center in San Bernardino, California which began shipping merchandise in April 2010.  This distribution center replaced the Salt Lake City distribution center which closed when its lease expired in April 2010.  We believe our distribution center network is currently capable of supporting approximately $8.0 billion in annual sales in the United States.  New distribution sites, like this one in San Bernardino, California,
are strategically located to reduce stem miles, maintain flexibility and improve efficiency in our store service areas.  In 2012, we plan to begin construction on a new distribution center in the Northeast which is expected to begin shipping product in 2013.  We also are a party to an agreement which provides distribution services from two facilities in Canada.




Our stores receive approximately 90% of their inventory from our distribution centers via contract carriers.  The remaining store inventory, primarily perishable consumable items and other vendor-maintained display items, are delivered directly to our stores from vendors.  For more information on our distribution center network, see Item 2 “Properties” beginning on page 13 of this Form 10-K.




Competition

The retail industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future.  We operate in the discount retail merchandise business, which is currently and is expected to continue to be highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, and customer service.  Our competitors include single-price dollar stores, multi-price dollar stores, mass merchandisers, discount retailers and variety retailers.  In addition, several competitors have locations with dollar price point merchandise in their stores, which increases competition.  We believe we differentiate ourselves from other retailers by providing high
value, high quality, low cost merchandise in attractively designed stores that are conveniently located.  Our sales and profits could be reduced by increases in competition.  There are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector.




Trademarks

We are the owners of several federal service mark registrations including "Dollar Tree," the "Dollar Tree" logo, the Dollar Tree logo with a “1”, and "One Price...One Dollar."  In addition, we own a concurrent use registration for "Dollar Bill$" and the related logo.  We also acquired the rights to use trade names previously owned by Everything's A Dollar, a former competitor in the $1.00 price point industry.  Several trade names were included in the purchase, including the marks "Everything's $1.00 We Mean Everything!," and "Everything's $1.00."  With the acquisition of Deal$, we became the owners of the trademark “Deal$”.  With the
acquisition of Dollar Giant, we became the owners of the trademark “Dollar Giant” and others in Canada. We have federal trademark registrations for a variety of private labels that we use to market some of our product lines.  Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.






  



9







  



Employees

We employed approximately 14,170 full-time and 58,600 part-time associates on January 28, 2012.  Part-time associates work an average of less than 35 hours per week.  The number of part-time associates fluctuates depending on seasonal needs.  We consider our relationship with our associates to be good, and we have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.




Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS




An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk.  Any failure to meet market expectations, including our comparable store sales growth rate, earnings and earnings per share or new store openings, could cause the market price of our stock to decline.  You should carefully consider the specific risk factors listed below together with all other information included or incorporated in this report.  Any of the following risks may materialize, and additional risks not known to us, or that we now deem immaterial, may arise.  In such event, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected.




Our profitability is vulnerable to cost increases.




Future increase in costs such as the cost of merchandise, wage and benefit costs, shipping rates, freight costs, fuel costs and store occupancy costs may reduce our profitability.  We do not raise the sales price of our merchandise to offset cost increases because we are committed to selling primarily at the $1.00 price point to continue to provide value to the customer.  We are dependent on our ability to adjust our product assortment, to operate more efficiently or effectively or to increase our comparable store net sales in order to offset inflation.  We can give no assurance that we will be able to operate more efficiently or increase our comparable store net sales in the
future.  Please see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," beginning on page 19 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the effect of Inflation and Other Economic Factors on our operations.




Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Our business is subject to the risk of litigation involving employees, consumers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, government agencies, or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation.  We are currently defendants in several employment-related class action cases and changes in Federal law could cause these types of claims to rise.  The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and intellectual property claims, is difficult to assess or quantify.  Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential
loss relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.  In addition, certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial statements as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operation are required.  The cost to defend current and future litigation may be significant.  There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation, including litigation related to product safety and customer information, which could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable.




For a discussion of current legal matters, please see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” beginning on page 14 of this Form 10-K.  Resolution of certain matters described in that item, if decided against the Company, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, accrued liabilities or cash flows.




Changes in federal, state or local law, or our failure to comply with such laws, could increase our expenses and expose us to legal risks.




Our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  Significant legislative changes, such as the healthcare legislation, that impact our relationship with our workforce could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations.  Changes in other regulatory areas, such as consumer credit, privacy and information security, product safety or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase.  In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results
of operations.  Changes in tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective tax rate.






  



10







  



Our growth is dependent on our ability to increase sales in existing stores and to expand our square footage profitably.




Existing store sales growth is dependent on a variety of factors including merchandise selection and availability, store operations and customer satisfaction.  In addition, competition could affect our sales.  Our highest sales periods are the Christmas and Easter seasons and we generally realize a disproportionate amount of our net sales and our operating and net income during the fourth quarter.  In anticipation, we stock extra inventory and hire many temporary employees to prepare our stores.  A reduction in sales during these periods could adversely affect our operating results, particularly operating and net income, to a greater extent than if a reduction occurred at
other times of the year.  Untimely merchandise delays due to receiving or distribution problems could have a similar effect.  Easter was observed on April 4, 2010, April 24, 2011, and will be observed on April 8, 2012.




Expanding our square footage profitably depends on a number of uncertainties, including our ability to locate, lease, build out and open or expand stores in suitable locations on a timely basis under favorable economic terms.  In addition, our expansion is dependent upon third-party developers’ abilities to acquire land, obtain financing, and secure necessary permits and approvals.  Turmoil in the financial markets has made it difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects.  We also open or expand stores within our established geographic markets, where new or expanded stores may draw sales away from our existing stores.  We may not manage our
expansion effectively, and our failure to achieve our expansion plans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Risks associated with our domestic and foreign suppliers from whom our products are sourced could affect our financial performance.




We are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner.  If a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments due to financial or other difficulties, we could experience merchandise shortages which could lead to lost sales or increased merchandise costs if alternative sources must be used.




Merchandise imported directly accounts for approximately 40% to 42% of our total retail value purchases.  In addition, we believe that a portion of our goods purchased from domestic vendors is imported.  China is the source of a substantial majority of our imports.  Imported goods are generally less expensive than domestic goods and increase our profit margins.  A disruption in the flow of our imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those goods may significantly decrease our profits.  Risks associated with our reliance on imported goods may include disruptions in the flow of or increases in the cost of imported goods because of factors such as:








·  


raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest;








·  


economic crises and international disputes;








·  


changes in currency exchange rates or policies and local economic conditions, including inflation in the country of origin; and








·  


failure of the United States to maintain normal trade relations with China.







We could encounter disruptions in our distribution network or additional costs in distributing merchandise.




Our success is dependent on our ability to transport merchandise to our distribution centers and then ship it to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner.  We may not anticipate, respond to or control all of the challenges of operating our receiving and distribution systems.  Additionally, if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, we could experience merchandise shortages that could lead to lost sales or increased costs.  Some of the factors that could have an adverse effect on our distribution network or costs are:








·  


Shipping disruption.  Our oceanic shipping schedules may be disrupted or delayed from time to time.








·  


Shipping costs.  We could experience increases in shipping rates imposed by the trans-Pacific ocean carriers.  Changes in import duties, import quotas and other trade sanctions could increase our costs.








·  


Diesel fuel costs.  We have experienced significant volatility in diesel fuel costs over the past few years, which could recur unexpectedly, at any time.








·  


Vulnerability to natural or man-made disasters.  A fire, explosion or natural disaster at a port or any of our distribution facilities could result in a loss of merchandise and impair our ability to adequately stock our stores.  Some facilities are vulnerable to earthquakes, hurricanes or tornadoes.








·  


Labor disagreement.  Labor disagreements, disruptions or strikes may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our distribution centers or stores and increase costs.








·  


War, terrorism and other events.  War and acts of terrorism in the United States, the Middle East, or in China or other parts of Asia, where we buy a significant amount of our imported merchandise, could disrupt our supply chain or increase our transportation costs.








·  


Economic conditions.  Suppliers may encounter financial or other difficulties.









  



11







  



A downturn in economic conditions could impact our sales.




Deterioration in economic conditions, such as those caused by a recession, inflation, higher unemployment, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, cost increases, as well as adverse weather conditions or terrorism, could reduce consumer spending or cause customers to shift their spending to products we either do not sell or do not sell as profitably.  Adverse economic conditions could disrupt consumer spending and significantly reduce our sales, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns or reduce our profitability due to lower margins.




Our profitability is affected by the mix of products we sell.




Our gross profit margin could decrease if we increase the proportion of higher cost goods we sell in the future.  In recent years, the percentage of our sales from higher cost consumable products has increased and is likely to increase in 2012.  As a result, our gross profit margin could decrease unless we are able to maintain our current merchandise cost sufficiently to offset any decrease in our product margin percentage.  We can give no assurance that we will be able to do so.




Pressure from competitors may reduce our sales and profits.




The retail industry is highly competitive.  The marketplace is highly fragmented as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store formats and merchandising strategies.  We expect competition to increase in the future.  There are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector.  Some of our current or potential competitors have greater financial resources than we do.  We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors.  Please see Item 1, “Business,” beginning on page x of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the effect
of competition on our operations.




A significant disruption in or security breach in our computer systems could adversely affect our operations or our ability to secure customer, employee and company data.




We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process customer transactions and summarize results.  Systems may be subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events.  If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process customer transactions, which could aversely affect our results of operations.




The protection of customer, employee, and company data is increasingly demanding, with frequent imposition of new requirements across our business.  In addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information.  A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, and/or lawsuits.




  



12







  







Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to attract and retain qualified associates and key personnel.




Our growth and performance is dependent on the skills, experience and contributions of our associates, executives and key personnel.  Various factors, including overall labor availability, wage rates, regulatory or legislative impacts, and benefit costs could impact the ability to attract and retain qualified associates at our stores, distribution centers and corporate office.




Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay or discourage a takeover attempt that may be in a shareholder's best interest.

 
 

Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws currently contain provisions that may delay or discourage a takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his best interest.  These provisions, among other things:








·  


provide that only the Board of Directors, chairman or president may call special meetings of the shareholders;








·  


establish certain advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders' meetings;








·  


permit the Board of Directors, without further action of the shareholders, to issue and fix the terms of preferred stock, which may have rights senior to those of the common stock.







However, we believe that these provisions allow our Board of Directors to negotiate a higher price in the event of a takeover attempt which would be in the best interest of our shareholders.




In 2010, the shareholders approved an amendment to our Articles of Incorporation which will result in the declassification of our Board of Directors in 2012.




Item 1B