Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The Company’s business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors
    which could cause its actual results to vary materially from
    recent results or from anticipated future results. In general,
    the Company is subject to the same general risks and
    uncertainties that impact many other industrial companies such
    as general economic, industry
    and/or
    market conditions and growth rates; the impact of natural





    
    10



Table of Contents





    disasters, and their effect on global energy markets; continued
    events in the Middle East and possible future terrorist threats
    and their effect on the worldwide economy; and changes in laws
    or accounting rules. The risk factors discussed in this section
    should be considered together with information included
    elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and should not be considered the only risks facing the Company.


 


    The Company has identified the following specific risks and
    uncertainties that it considers material:


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s results for 2010 may continue to be impacted
    by current domestic and international economic conditions and
    uncertainties.





 


    In 2010, the Company’s businesses may continue to be
    adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets or
    declines in economic activity both domestically and
    internationally in those countries in which the Company
    operates. These circumstances will also impact the
    Company’s suppliers and customers in various ways which
    could have an impact on the Company’s business operations,
    particularly if global credit markets are not operating
    efficiently and effectively to support industrial commerce. Such
    negative changes in worldwide economic and capital market
    conditions are beyond the Company’s control, are highly
    unpredictable, and can have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s revenue, earnings, cash flows and cost of capital.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Increasing
    price and product/service competition by international and
    domestic competitors, including new entrants and the ability of
    the Company to introduce new and competitive products could
    cause the Company’s businesses to generate lower revenue,
    operating profits and cash flows.





 


    The Company’s competitive environment is complex because of
    the wide diversity of the products that its companies
    manufacture and the markets they serve. In general, most Dover
    companies compete with only a few companies. The ability of
    Dover’s companies to compete effectively depends on how
    successfully they anticipate and respond to various competitive
    factors, including new products and services that may be
    introduced by their competitors, changes in customer
    preferences, and pricing pressures. If Dover’s companies
    are unable to anticipate their competitors’ development of
    new products and services
    and/or
    identify customer needs and preferences on a timely basis or
    successfully introduce new products and services in response to
    such competitive factors, they could lose customers to
    competitors. If Dover’s companies do not compete
    effectively, Dover companies may experience lower revenue,
    operating profits and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Some
    of Dover’s companies may not anticipate, adapt to, or
    capitalize on technological developments and are subject to the
    cyclical nature of their industries. These factors could cause
    these companies to become less competitive and lead to reduced
    market share, revenue, operating profits and cash
    flows.





 


    Certain Dover companies, particularly in the Electronic
    Technologies segment, sell their products in industries that are
    constantly experiencing change as new technologies are
    developed. In order to grow and remain competitive, the
    companies in these industries must adapt to future changes in
    technology to enhance their existing products and introduce new
    products to address their customers’ changing demands.
    Also, a meaningful portion of the Electronic Technologies
    segment’s revenue is derived from companies that are
    subject to unpredictable short-term business cycles.


 


    The Energy platform in the Fluid Management segment is subject
    to risk due to the volatility of energy prices, although overall
    demand is more directly related to depletion rates and global
    economic conditions and related energy demands. In addition,
    certain Dover businesses manufacture products that are used in
    or related to residential and commercial construction, which can
    be adversely affected by a prolonged downturn in new housing
    starts and other construction markets.


 


    As a result of all the above factors, the revenue and operating
    performance of these companies in any one period are not
    necessarily predictive of their revenue and operating
    performance in other periods, and these factors could have a
    material impact on the Company’s consolidated results of
    operations, financial position and cash flows.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our companies could lose customers or generate lower
    revenue, operating profits and cash flows if there are
    significant increases in the cost of raw materials (including
    energy) or if they are unable to obtain raw materials.





 


    Dover’s companies purchase raw materials, subassemblies and
    components for use in their manufacturing operations, which
    exposes them to volatility in prices for certain commodities.
    Significant price increases for these





    
    11



Table of Contents





    commodities could adversely affect operating profits for certain
    Dover companies. While the Company’s businesses generally
    attempt to mitigate the impact of increased raw material prices
    by hedging or passing along the increased costs to customers,
    there may be a time delay between the increased raw material
    prices and the ability to increase the prices of products, or
    they may be unable to increase the prices of products due to a
    competitor’s pricing pressure or other factors. In
    addition, while raw materials are generally available now, the
    inability to obtain necessary raw materials could affect the
    ability to meet customer commitments and satisfy market demand
    for certain products. Consequently, a significant price increase
    in raw materials, or their unavailability, may result in a loss
    of customers and adversely impact revenue, operating profits and
    cash flows.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Company’s growth strategy with respect to
    expansion into new geographic markets could be adversely
    affected if Dover’s companies are unable to manage the
    associated risks, particularly in markets outside the
    U.S.





 


    Approximately 43% of the Company’s revenue is derived
    outside of the United States and the Company continues to focus
    on penetrating new global markets as part of its overall growth
    strategy. This global expansion strategy is subject to general
    risks related to international operations, including, among
    others: political, social and economic instability and
    disruptions; government embargoes or trade restrictions; the
    imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;
    import and export controls; increased compliance costs;
    transportation delays and disruptions; and difficulties in
    staffing and managing multi-national organizations. If the
    Company is unable to successfully mitigate these risks, they
    could have an adverse effect on the Company’s growth
    strategy involving expansion into new geographic markets and on
    its results of operations and financial position.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Company’s exposure to exchange rate fluctuations
    on cross border transactions and the translation of local
    currency results into U.S. dollars could negatively impact
    the Company’s results of operations.





 


    The Company conducts business through its subsidiaries in many
    different countries, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates
    could have a significant impact on the reported results of
    operations, which are presented in U.S. dollars. A
    significant and growing portion of the Company’s products
    are manufactured in lower-cost locations and sold in various
    countries. Cross border transactions, both with external parties
    and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to
    foreign exchange effects. Accordingly, significant changes in
    currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, Pound Sterling,
    Chinese RMB (Yuan) and the Canadian dollar, could cause
    fluctuations in the reported results of the Company’s
    operations that could negatively affect its results of
    operations. Additionally, the strengthening of certain
    currencies such as the Euro and U.S. dollar potentially
    exposes the Company to competitive threats from lower cost
    producers in other countries such as China. The Company’s
    sales are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting
    purposes. The weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in
    unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign
    locations are translated into U.S. dollars.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Company’s operating profits and cash flows could
    be adversely affected if the Company cannot achieve projected
    savings and synergies.





 


    The Company is continually evaluating its cost structure and
    seeking ways to capture synergies across its operations. If the
    Company is unable to reduce costs and expenses through its
    various programs, it could adversely affect the Company’s
    operating profits and cash flows.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Failure to attract, retain and develop personnel or to
    provide adequate succession plans for key management could have
    an adverse affect on the Company’s operating
    results.





 


    The Company’s growth, profitability and effectiveness in
    conducting its operations and executing its strategic plans
    depend in part on its ability to attract, retain and develop
    qualified personnel, align them with appropriate opportunities
    and maintain adequate succession plans for key management
    positions. If the Company is unsuccessful in these efforts, its
    operating results could be adversely affected.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Company’s businesses and their profitability and
    reputation could be adversely affected by domestic and foreign
    governmental and public policy changes (including environmental
    and employment regulations and tax policies such as export
    subsidy programs, research and experimentation credits, carbon
    emission regulations, and other similar programs), risks
    associated with emerging markets, changes in statutory tax rates
    and unanticipated outcomes with respect to tax audits.





 


    The Company’s domestic and international sales and
    operations are subject to risks associated with changes in local
    government laws (including environmental and export laws),
    regulations and policies. Failure to comply with any of these
    laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and
    non-monetary penalties as well as potential damage





    
    12



Table of Contents





    to the Company’s reputation. In addition, the Company
    cannot provide assurance that its costs of complying with
    current or future laws, including environmental protection,
    employment, and health and safety laws, will not exceed its
    estimates. In addition, the Company has invested in certain
    countries, including Brazil, Russia, India and China that carry
    high levels of currency, political, compliance and economic
    risk. While these risks or the impact of these risks are
    difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely
    affect the Company’s businesses and reputation.


 


    The Company’s effective tax rate is impacted by changes in
    the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax
    rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets
    or changes in tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other
    taxes paid can be adversely impacted by changes in statutory tax
    rates and laws and are subject to ongoing audits by domestic and
    international authorities. If these audits result in assessments
    different from amounts estimated, then the Company’s
    financial results may be adversely affected by unfavorable tax
    adjustments.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Unforeseen developments in contingencies such as
    litigation could adversely affect the Company’s financial
    condition.





 


    The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are, and from time
    to time may become, parties to a number of legal proceedings
    incidental to their businesses involving alleged injuries
    arising out of the use of their products, exposure to hazardous
    substances or patent infringement, employment matters and
    commercial disputes. The defense of these lawsuits may require
    significant expenses, divert management’s attention, and
    the Company may be required to pay damages that could adversely
    affect its financial condition. In addition, any insurance or
    indemnification rights that the Company may have may be
    insufficient or unavailable to protect it against potential loss
    exposures.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Company’s revenue, operating profits and cash
    flows could be adversely affected if Dover’s companies are
    unable to protect or obtain patent and other intellectual
    property rights.





 


    Dover companies own patents, trademarks, licenses and other
    forms of intellectual property related to their products. Dover
    companies employ various measures to maintain and protect their
    intellectual property. These measures may not prevent their
    intellectual property from being challenged, invalidated or
    circumvented, particularly in countries where intellectual
    property rights are not highly developed or protected.
    Unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights could
    adversely impact the competitive position of Dover’s
    companies and have a negative impact on their revenue, operating
    profits and cash flows.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Company’s growth and results of operations may be
    adversely affected if the Company is unsuccessful in its capital
    allocation and acquisition program or is unable to divest
    non-core assets and businesses as planned.





 


    The Company expects to continue its strategy of seeking to
    acquire value creating add-on businesses that broaden its
    existing companies and their global reach as well as, in the
    right circumstances, strategically pursuing larger, stand-alone
    businesses that have the potential to either complement its
    existing companies or allow the Company to pursue a new
    platform. However, there can be no assurance that the Company
    will find suitable businesses to purchase or that the associated
    price would be acceptable. If the Company is unsuccessful in its
    acquisition efforts, then its ability to continue to grow at
    rates similar to prior years could be adversely affected. In
    addition, a completed acquisition may underperform relative to
    expectations, be unable to achieve synergies originally
    anticipated, or require the payment of additional expenses for
    assumed liabilities. Further, failure to allocate capital
    appropriately could also result in over exposure in certain
    markets and geographies. These factors could potentially have an
    adverse impact on the Company’s operating profits and cash
    flows. The inability to dispose of non-core assets and
    businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the
    expected time frame could also have an adverse affect on our
    results of operations.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Company’s borrowing costs are impacted by its
    credit ratings developed by various rating agencies.





 


    Three major ratings agencies (Moody’s, Standard and
    Poor’s, and Fitch Ratings) evaluate the Company’s
    credit profile on an ongoing basis and have each assigned high
    ratings for the Company’s long-term debt as of
    December 31, 2009. In February 2010, the Company met
    with Moody’s, Standard Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. All
    agencies reaffirmed their current credit ratings for the
    Company. Although the Company does not anticipate a material
    change in its credit ratings, if the Company’s current
    credit ratings deteriorate, then its borrowing costs could
    increase, including increased fees under the Five-Year Credit
    Facility and the Company’s access to future sources of
    liquidity may be adversely affected.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B