Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Dover’s business, financial condition, operating results
    and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors which
    could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent
    results or from anticipated future results. The risk factors
    discussed in this section should be considered together with
    information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and should not be considered the only risks facing the Company.
    The structure of Dover and the many different markets its
    companies serve mitigate the possibility that any single risk
    factor will materially impact Dover’s consolidated
    financial position.


 


    In general, Dover is subject to the same general risks and
    uncertainties that impact many other industrial companies such
    as general economic, industry and/or market conditions and
    growth rates; the impact of natural disasters, and their effect
    on global energy markets; continued events in the Middle East
    and possible future terrorist threats and their effect on the
    worldwide economy; and changes in laws or accounting rules. The
    Company has identified the following specific risks and
    uncertainties that it considers material:


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s results for 2009 will be impacted by current
    domestic and international economic conditions and
    uncertainties.





 


    In 2009 Dover’s businesses will be adversely affected by
    disruptions in financial markets or declines in economic
    activity both domestically and internationally in those
    countries in which the Company operates. These circumstances
    will also impact the Company’s suppliers and customers in
    various ways which could have an impact on the Company’s
    business operations, particularly if global credit markets are
    not operating efficiently and effectively to support industrial
    commerce. Such negative changes in worldwide economic and
    capital market conditions are beyond the Company’s control,
    are highly unpredictable, and can have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s revenue, earnings, cash flows and cost of capital.



    
    9



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    • 

    
    Increasing
    price and product/service competition by international and
    domestic competitors including new entrants and the ability of
    Dover to introduce new and competitive products could cause
    Dover’s businesses to generate lower revenue, operating
    profits and cash flows.





 


    Dover’s competitive environment is complex because of the
    wide diversity of the products that its companies manufacture
    and the markets they serve. In general, most Dover companies are
    market leaders that compete with only a few companies. The
    ability of Dover’s companies to compete effectively will
    depend on how successfully they anticipate and respond to
    various competitive factors, including new products and services
    that may be introduced by their competitors, changes in customer
    preferences, and pricing pressures. If Dover’s companies
    are unable to anticipate their competitor’s development of
    new products and services
    and/or
    identify customer needs and preferences on a timely basis, they
    could lose customers to competitors. If Dover’s companies
    do not compete effectively or if new products and services fail
    to gain acceptance in the marketplace, Dover companies may
    experience lower revenue, operating profits and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Some
    of Dover’s companies, may not anticipate , adapt or
    capitalize on technological developments and are subject to the
    cyclical nature of their industries. These factors could cause
    these companies to become less competitive and lead to reduced
    market share, revenue, operating profits and cash
    flows.





 


    Certain Dover companies, particularly in the Electronic
    Technologies segment, sell their products in industries that are
    constantly experiencing change as new technologies are
    developed. In order to grow and remain competitive, the
    companies in these industries must adapt to future changes in
    technology to enhance their existing products and introduce new
    products to address their customers’ changing demands.
    Also, a meaningful portion of the Electronic Technologies
    segment’s revenue is derived from companies which are
    subject to unpredictable short-term business cycles.


 


    The Energy platform in the Fluid Management segment is subject
    to risk due to the volatility of energy prices, although overall
    demand is more directly related to depletion rates and global
    economic conditions and related energy demands. In addition,
    certain of Dover’s businesses manufacture products that are
    used in or related to residential and commercial construction,
    which can be adversely affected by a prolonged downturn in new
    housing starts and other construction markets.


 


    As a result of all the above factors, the revenue and operating
    performance of these companies in any one period are not
    necessarily predictive of their revenue and operating
    performance in other periods, and could have a material impact
    on Dover’s consolidated results of operations, financial
    position and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Our
    companies could lose customers or generate lower revenue,
    operating profits and cash flows if there are significant
    increases in the cost of energy or raw materials or if they are
    unable to obtain raw materials.





 


    Dover’s companies purchase raw materials, subassemblies and
    components for use in their manufacturing operations, which
    exposes them to volatility in prices for certain commodities.
    Significant price increases for these commodities could
    adversely affect operating profits for certain Dover companies.
    While Dover’s businesses generally attempt to mitigate the
    impact of increased raw material prices by hedging or passing
    along the increased costs to customers, there may be a time
    delay between the increased raw material prices and the ability
    to increase the prices of products, or they may be unable to
    increase the prices of products due to a competitor’s
    pricing pressure or other factors. In addition, while raw
    materials are generally available now, the inability to obtain
    necessary raw materials could affect the ability to meet
    customer commitments and satisfy market demand for certain
    products. Consequently, a significant price increase in raw
    materials, or their unavailability, may result in a loss of
    customers and adversely impact revenue, operating profits and
    cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s growth strategy with respect to expansion into
    new geographic markets could be adversely affected if
    Dover’s companies are unable to manage the associated
    risks, particularly in markets outside the U.S.





 


    Approximately 45% of Dover’s revenue is derived outside of
    the United States and the Company continues to focus on
    penetrating new global markets as part of its overall growth
    strategy. This global expansion strategy is subject to, but



    
    10



Table of Contents




    not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties:
    political, social and economic instability and disruptions;
    government embargoes or trade restrictions; the imposition of
    duties and tariffs and other trade barriers; import and export
    controls; increased compliance costs; transportation delays and
    disruptions; and difficulties in staffing and managing
    multi-national organizations. In addition, foreign currency
    fluctuations, particularly the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar
    against European currencies, generally has an adverse affect on
    exports and the related revenue and earnings. As a result, if
    the Company is unable to successfully mitigate these risks, they
    could have an adverse affect on the Company’s growth
    strategy as it relates to expanding into new geographic markets
    and its results of operations and financial position.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s operating profits and cash flows could be
    adversely affected if the Company cannot achieve projected
    savings and synergies.





 


    Dover is continually evaluating its cost structure and seeking
    ways to capture synergies across its operations. If the Company
    is unable to reduce costs and expenses through its various
    programs, it could adversely affect the Company’s operating
    profits and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s businesses and their profitability and reputation
    could be adversely affected by domestic and foreign governmental
    and public policy changes (including environmental regulations
    and tax policies such as export subsidy programs, R&E
    credits and other similar programs), risks associated with
    emerging markets, changes in statutory tax rates and
    unanticipated outcomes with respect to tax audits.





 


    Dover’s domestic and international sales and operations are
    subject to risks associated with changes in local government
    laws (including environmental and export laws), regulations and
    policies. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result
    in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties as
    well as potential damage to the Company’s reputation. In
    addition, the Company cannot provide assurance that its costs of
    complying with current or future laws, including environmental
    protection and health and safety laws, will not exceed its
    estimates. In addition, Dover has invested in certain countries,
    including Brazil, Russia, India and China that carry high levels
    of currency, political, compliance and economic risk. While
    these risks or the impact of these risks are difficult to
    predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect
    Dover’s businesses and reputation.


 


    Dover’s effective tax rate is impacted by changes in the
    mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax
    rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets
    or tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other taxes paid can
    be adversely impacted by changes in statutory tax rates and laws
    and are subject to ongoing audits by domestic and international
    authorities. If these audits result in assessments different
    from amounts estimated, the Company’s financial results may
    be adversely affected by unfavorable tax adjustments.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Unforeseen
    developments in contingencies such as litigation could adversely
    affect the Company’s financial condition.





 


    The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are, and from time
    to time may become, parties to a number of legal proceedings
    incidental to their businesses involving alleged injuries
    arising out of the use of their products, exposure to hazardous
    substances or patent infringement, employment matters and
    commercial disputes. The defense of these lawsuits may require
    significant expenses, divert management’s attention, and
    the Company may be required to pay damages that could adversely
    affect its financial condition. In addition, any insurance or
    indemnification rights that the Company may have may be
    insufficient or unavailable to protect it against potential loss
    exposures.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s revenue, operating profits and cash flows could
    be adversely affected if Dover’s companies are unable to
    protect or obtain patent and other intellectual property
    rights.





 


    Dover companies own patents, trademarks, licenses and other
    forms of intellectual property related to their products. The
    Company employs various measures to maintain and protect their
    intellectual property. These measures may not prevent these
    items from being challenged, invalidated or circumvented,
    particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are
    not highly developed or protected. Unauthorized use of these
    intellectual



    
    11



Table of Contents




    property rights could adversely impact the competitive position
    of Dover’s companies and have a negative impact on their
    revenue, operating profits and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s growth may be adversely affected if the Company
    is unsuccessful in its acquisition program.





 


    The Company expects to continue its strategy of seeking to
    acquire value creating add-on businesses that broaden its
    existing companies and their global reach as well as
    strategically pursuing larger, stand-alone businesses that have
    the potential to either complement our existing companies or
    allow Dover to pursue a new platform. However, there can be no
    assurance that the Company will find suitable businesses to
    purchase, as a substantial number of the Company’s current
    businesses operate in relatively mature markets, or that the
    associated price would be acceptable. If the Company is
    unsuccessful in its acquisition efforts, its ability to continue
    to grow at rates similar to prior years could be adversely
    affected. In addition, a completed acquisition may underperform
    relative to expectations, be unable to achieve synergies
    originally anticipated, or require the payment of additional
    expenses for assumed liabilities. These factors could
    potentially have an adverse impact on Dover’s operating
    profits and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s borrowing costs are impacted by its credit
    ratings developed by various rating agencies.





 


    Three major ratings agencies (Moody’s, Standard and
    Poor’s and Fitch) evaluate Dover’s credit profile on
    an ongoing basis and have each assigned high ratings for
    Dover’s long-term debt as of December 31, 2008 (A2, A,
    and A, respectively). In January 2009, Fitch reaffirmed its
    credit rating for Dover with a negative outlook, while the
    ratings and outlooks from the other agencies remained unchanged.
    Although the Company does not anticipate a material change in
    its credit ratings, if the Company’s current credit ratings
    deteriorate, its borrowing costs and access to sources of
    liquidity may be adversely affected.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    2009
    Outlook





 


    Dover currently anticipates that 2009 revenue will decline
    11%-13%, below 2008 levels and currently does not anticipate a
    recovery in the latter half of 2009 from these demand levels.
    Based on these assumptions, Dover has projected that its
    continuing diluted earnings per share for 2009 will be in the
    range of $2.75 to $3.05, and expects its earnings to follow a
    traditional seasonal pattern of being lower in the first and
    fourth quarters, and higher in the second and third quarters. If
    global or domestic economic conditions deteriorate further,
    Dover’s operating results for 2009 could be materially
    worse than projected.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1B