Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  For additional details regarding our non-U.S. revenue and the geographic allocation of the assets of our continuing operations, see Note 17. Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.Environmental Matters Our operations are governed by a variety of international, national, state, and local environmental laws. We are committed to continued compliance and believe our operations generally are in substantial compliance with these laws. In a few instances, particular plants and businesses have been the subject of administrative and legal proceedings with governmental agencies or private parties relating to the discharge or potential discharge of regulated substances. Where necessary, these matters have been addressed with specific consent orders to achieve compliance. In 2010, we developed and implemented a process to conduct an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions.  Since then, we have evaluated our climate change risks and opportunities and have developed an energy and climate change strategy that includes clearly defined goals and objectives, along with prioritized programs and projects for achieving energy use and greenhouse gas emissions reductions. We have committed to reducing our overall energy and greenhouse gas intensity indexed to net revenue by 20% from 2010 to 2020.  We also participated as a respondent in the 2012 Carbon Disclosure Project. All of our segments are investigating the energy efficiencies related to their operations and the use of their products and services by customers. In some instances, our businesses may be able to help customers reduce some of their energy needs. Increased demand for energy-efficient products, based on a variety of drivers (including, but not limited to, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions) could result in increased sales for a number of our businesses. There have been no material effects upon our earnings and competitive position resulting from compliance with laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment. We are aware of a number of existing or upcoming regulatory initiatives intended to reduce emissions in geographies where our manufacturing and warehouse/distribution facilities are located and have evaluated the potential impact of these regulations on our businesses. We anticipate that direct impacts from regulatory actions will not be significant in the short- to medium-term. We expect the regulatory impacts associated with climate change regulation would be primarily indirect and would result in “pass through” costs from energy suppliers, suppliers of raw materials, and other services related to our operations. Employees We had approximately 37,000 employees in our ongoing operations as of December 31, 2013, which was an increase of 6% from the prior year end.  The increase is primarily the result of recent acquisitions, slightly offset by headcount reduction  programs in certain businesses.  Other Information We make available through the “Financial Reports” link on our Internet website, http://www.dovercorporation.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports. We post each of these reports on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after the report is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our Internet website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.12Table of ContentsITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORSOur business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. In general, we are subject to the same general risks and uncertainties that impact many other industrial companies such as general economic, industry and/or market conditions, and growth rates; the impact of natural disasters, and their effect on global markets; possible future terrorist threats and their effect on the worldwide economy; and changes in laws or accounting rules. The risk factors discussed in this section should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Form 10-K and should not be considered the only risks to which we are exposed.•Our results may be impacted by current domestic and international economic conditions and uncertainties.Our businesses may be adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets or declines in economic activity both domestically and internationally in those countries in which we operate. These circumstances will also impact our suppliers and customers in various ways which could have an impact on our business operations, particularly if global credit markets are not operating efficiently and effectively to support industrial commerce.  Our Energy segment is subject to risk due to the volatility of global energy prices and regulations that impact production, although overall demand is more directly related to depletion rates and global economic conditions and related energy demands.Negative changes in worldwide economic and capital market conditions are beyond our control, are highly unpredictable, and can have an adverse effect on our revenue, earnings, cash flows, and cost of capital.•We are subject to risks relating to our existing international operations and expansion into new geographical markets.Approximately 48% of our revenues for 2013 and 46% of our revenues for 2012 were derived outside the United States. We continue to focus on penetrating global markets as part of our overall growth strategy and expect sales from outside the United States to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations and suppliers are located outside the United States.  Our international operations and our global expansion strategy are subject to general risks related to such operations, including:o  political, social, and economic instability and disruptions;  o  government embargoes or trade restrictions;  o  the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;  o  import and export controls;  o  limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings;  o  transportation delays and interruptions;  o  labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments;  o  increased compliance costs, including costs associated with disclosure requirements and related due diligence;  o  the impact of loss of a single-source manufacturing facility;  o  difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; and  o  limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies.  If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with expanding our global business or adequately manage operational risks of our existing international operations, the risks could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy involving expansion into new geographical markets or our results of operations and financial position.•Increasing product/service and price competition by international and domestic competitors, including new entrants, and our inability to introduce new and competitive products could cause our businesses to generate lower revenue, operating profits, and cash flows.Our competitive environment is complex because of the wide diversity of the products that our businesses manufacture and the markets they serve. In general, most of our businesses compete with only a few companies. Our ability to compete effectively depends on how successfully we anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, including new products 13Table of Contentsand services that may be introduced by competitors, changes in customer preferences, new business models and technologies, and pricing pressures. If our businesses are unable to anticipate their competitors’ development of new products and services, and/or identify customer needs and preferences on a timely basis, or successfully introduce new products and services in response to such competitive factors, they could lose customers to competitors. If our businesses do not compete effectively, we may experience lower revenue, operating profits, and cash flows.•Some of our businesses may not anticipate, adapt to, or capitalize on technological developments and this could cause these businesses to become less competitive and lead to reduced market share, revenue, operating profits, and cash flows.Certain of our Communication Technologies businesses sell their products in electronic and technology-based industries that are constantly experiencing change as new technologies are developed. In order to grow and remain competitive in these industries, they must adapt to future changes in technology to enhance their existing products and introduce new products to address their customers’ changing demands. If these businesses are unable to adapt to the rapid technological changes, it could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. •We could lose customers or generate lower revenue, operating profits, and cash flows if there are significant increases in the cost of raw materials (including energy) or if we are unable to obtain raw materials.We purchase raw materials, sub-assemblies, and components for use in our manufacturing operations, which expose us to volatility in prices for certain commodities. Significant price increases for these commodities could adversely affect operating profits for certain of our businesses.  While we generally attempt to mitigate the impact of increased raw material prices by hedging or passing along the increased costs to customers, there may be a time delay between the increased raw material prices and the ability to increase the prices of products, or we may be unable to increase the prices of products due to a competitor’s pricing pressure or other factors. In addition, while raw materials are generally available now, the inability to obtain necessary raw materials could affect our ability to meet customer commitments and satisfy market demand for certain products. Consequently, a significant price increase in raw materials, or their unavailability, may result in a loss of customers and adversely impact revenue, operating profits, and cash flows.•Customer requirements and new regulations may increase our expenses and impact the availability of certain raw materials, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating profits.Our businesses use parts or materials that are impacted by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) requirement for disclosure of the use of “conflict minerals” mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries.  It is possible that some of our businesses' customers will require “conflict free” metals in products purchased from us.  We have begun the process of determining the country of origin of certain metals used by our businesses, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The supply chain due diligence and verification of sources may require several years to complete based on the current availability of smelter origin information and the number of vendors.  We may not be able to complete the process in the time frame required because of the complexity of our supply chain.  Other governmental social responsibility regulations also may impact our suppliers, manufacturing operations, and operating profits. The need to find alternative sources for certain raw materials or products because of customer requirements and regulations may impact our ability to secure adequate supplies of raw materials or parts, lead to supply shortages, or adversely impact the prices at which our businesses can procure compliant goods.     •Our businesses and their profitability and reputation could be adversely affected by domestic and foreign governmental and public policy changes (including environmental and employment regulations and tax policies such as export subsidy programs, research and experimentation credits, carbon emission regulations, and other similar programs), risks associated with emerging markets, changes in statutory tax rates, and unanticipated outcomes with respect to tax audits.Our businesses’ domestic and international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with changes in local government laws (including environmental and export/import laws), regulations, and policies. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary, and non-monetary penalties as well as potential damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with new and evolving regulatory reporting requirements and current or future laws, including environmental protection, employment, and health and safety laws, will not exceed our estimates. In addition, we have invested in certain countries, including Brazil, Russia, India, and China, and may in the future invest in other countries, any of which may carry high levels of currency, political, compliance, and economic risk. While these risks or the impact of these risks are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. 14Table of ContentsOur effective tax rate is impacted by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, and changes in tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other taxes paid can be adversely impacted by changes in statutory tax rates and laws and are subject to ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts estimated, then our financial results may be adversely affected by unfavorable tax adjustments. •Our revenue, operating profits, and cash flows could be adversely affected if our businesses are unable to protect or obtain patent and other intellectual property rights.Our businesses own patents, trademarks, licenses, and other forms of intellectual property related to their products. Our businesses employ various measures to maintain and protect their intellectual property. These measures may not prevent their intellectual property from being challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. Unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights could adversely impact the competitive position of our businesses and have a negative impact on our revenue, operating profits, and cash flows.•Our growth and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in our capital allocation and acquisition program.We expect to continue our strategy of seeking to acquire value creating add-on businesses that broaden our existing position and global reach as well as, in the right circumstances, strategically pursue larger acquisitions that could have the potential to either complement our existing businesses or allow us to pursue a new platform.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to find suitable businesses to purchase, that we will be able to acquire such businesses on acceptable terms, or that all closing conditions will be satisfied with respect to any pending acquisition. If we are unsuccessful in our acquisition efforts, then our ability to continue to grow at rates similar to prior years could be adversely affected.  In addition, we face the risk that a completed acquisition may underperform relative to expectations.  We may be unable to achieve synergies originally anticipated, exposed to unexpected liabilities and unable to to sufficiently integrate completed acquisitions into our current business and growth model. Further, if we fail to allocate our capital appropriately, in respect of either our acquisition program or organic growth in our operations, we could be overexposed in certain markets and geographies and unable to expand into adjacent products or markets.  These factors could potentially have an adverse impact on our operating profits and cash flows.•Our operating profits and cash flows could be adversely affected if we cannot achieve projected savings and synergies.We are continually evaluating our cost structure and seeking ways to capture synergies across our operations. If we are unable to reduce costs and expenses through our various programs, it could adversely affect our operating profits and cash flows.•Unforeseen developments in contingencies such as litigation could adversely affect our financial condition.We and certain of our subsidiaries are, and from time to time may become, parties to a number of legal proceedings incidental to their businesses involving alleged injuries arising out of the use of their products, exposure to hazardous substances, or patent infringement, employment matters, and commercial disputes. The defense of these lawsuits may require significant expenses and divert management’s attention, and we may be required to pay damages that could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. •The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities.Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot be assured that these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position.   15Table of Contents•Failure to attract, retain, and develop personnel or to provide adequate succession plans for key management could have an adverse effect on our operating results.Our growth, profitability, and effectiveness in conducting our operations and executing our strategic plans depend in part on our ability to attract, retain, and develop qualified personnel, align them with appropriate opportunities, and maintain adequate succession plans for key management positions and support for strategic initiatives. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, our operating results could be adversely affected and we could miss opportunities for growth and efficiencies. •Our business operations may be adversely affected by information systems interruptions or intrusion.  Our businesses rely on a number of information technologies to manage, store, and support business activities.  We have put in place a number of systems, processes, and practices designed to protect against intentional or unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information, disruption of our operations, or corruption of the software that supports our products.  Disruptions or cybersecurity attacks, such as unauthorized access, malicious software, or other violations may lead to exposure of proprietary or confidential information as well as potential data corruption.  Any intrusion may cause operational stoppages, loss of business, violations of applicable law, diminished competitive advantages or reputational damages, and increased operational costs for remedial activities.   •Our reputation, ability to do business, and results of operations may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents, or business partners.While we strive to maintain high standards, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws or fail to protect our confidential information, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering, and data privacy laws, as well as the improper use of proprietary information or social media.  Any such violations of law or improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to increased costs of compliance and could damage our reputation.  •Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross-border transactions and the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars could negatively impact our results of operations.We conduct business through our subsidiaries in many different countries, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a significant impact on the reported results of operations, which are presented in U.S. dollars. A significant and growing portion of our products are manufactured in lower-cost locations and sold in various countries. Cross-border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. Accordingly, significant changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, Pound Sterling, Swiss franc, Chinese Renminbi (Yuan), and the Canadian dollar, could cause fluctuations in the reported results of our businesses’ operations that could negatively affect our results of operations.  Additionally, the strengthening of certain currencies such as the Euro and U.S. dollar potentially exposes us to competitive threats from lower cost producers in other countries such as China. Our sales are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into U.S. dollars.•Our borrowing costs may be impacted by our credit ratings developed by various rating agencies.Three major ratings agencies (Moody’s, Standard and Poor’s, and Fitch Ratings) evaluate our credit profile on an ongoing basis and have each assigned high ratings for our long-term debt as of December 31, 2013.  Although we do not anticipate a material change in our credit ratings, if our current credit ratings deteriorate, then our borrowing costs could increase, including increased fees under our Five-Year Credit Facility, and our access to future sources of liquidity may be adversely affected.•The proposed spin-off of certain of our communication technologies businesses may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or terms, or at all, and may not achieve the intended benefits. There can be no assurance that the spin-off of Knowles will be completed in the contemplated manner or timeframe, or at all.  If the spin-off transaction is not completed in the contemplated manner or timeframe or not completed at all, among other things, the price of Dover's stock may decline.  16Table of ContentsWe have and will continue to incur significant expenses in connection with the proposed transaction which may exceed our current expectations. We cannot predict with certainty when the benefits expected from the proposed transaction will occur or the extent to which they will be achieved, if at all. For example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will place values on each of the independent companies that will equal a total value that is greater than that which Dover has today.  In addition, if the proposed spin-off is consummated, our operational and financial profile will change and we will face new risks, including the possibility of reduced financial resources and less diversification of our revenue sources which could adversely impact our future results. In addition, the changes in our operational and financial profile may not meet some of our shareholders' investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their shares and otherwise decrease demand for our common stock. Excess selling could cause the relative market price of our common stock to decrease and be subject to greater volatility following the consummation of the proposed spin-off.  •If the spin-off, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities. A condition to the spin-off is the receipt by us of either (i) a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") together with an opinion of Baker & McKenzie LLP, our tax counsel, substantively to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares to our shareholders, will qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), or (ii) an opinion of Baker & McKenzie LLP, our tax counsel, substantively to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off will qualify as tax-free for U.S. Federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 36x(c)(i)(D) of the Code. We received an opinion from Baker & McKenzie LLP that the spin-off will so qualify, which opinion is expected to be confirmed on the distribution date of the Knowles spin-off. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings of us and Knowles, including those regarding the past and future conduct of certain of our businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we may not be able to rely on the opinion, and we and our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. In addition, we and Knowles intend for certain related transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law. If the distribution is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. For example, if the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, we would, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, be treated as if we had sold the Knowles common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our shareholders who are subject to U.S. federal income tax would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Knowles common stock received in the distribution. In addition, if certain related transactions fail to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, we could incur significant tax liabilities under U.S. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law.  ITEM 1B