. Risk Factors and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on this transaction.4Table of ContentsBUSINESS SEGMENTS AND PRODUCTSDow’s worldwide operations are managed through global businesses which are reported in five operating segments: Agricultural Sciences, Consumer Solutions, Infrastructure Solutions, Performance Materials & Chemicals and Performance Plastics. This operating structure maximizes Dow’s integration benefits and the value from materials, polymers, chemicals and biological sciences to help address many of the world's most challenging problems - either through molecular and value chain alignment, or through the benefits derived from Dow's enhanced, innovation-driven market focus. See Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Company’s operating segments.AGRICULTURAL SCIENCESThe Agricultural Sciences segment is a global leader in providing crop protection and seed/plant biotechnology products and technologies, urban pest management solutions and healthy oils. The business invents, develops, manufactures and markets products for use in agricultural, industrial and commercial pest management, and food service. The segment has broad global reach with sales in nearly 130 countries and research and development ("R&D") and manufacturing facilities located in all geographic areas. Growth is achieved through the development of innovative new products and technologies, successful segmentation of market offerings with leading brands, diverse channels to market, competitive cost positions, strategic bolt-on acquisitions, and commercial and R&D collaborations. The Company is committed to the development of innovative new crop protection and biological products and technologies.Details on Agricultural Sciences' 2015 sales, by business and geographic area, are as follows:    ProductsKey product lines, including crop application, are listed below: Crop ApplicationKey Product LinesCanolaCerealsCornCottonRange and PastureRiceSoybeansSunflowerTrees, Fruits and VegetablesOthersInsecticidesxxxx xxxxxFungicides x   xx xxHerbicidesxxxxxxxxxxSeedsxxxxx xx xOther  x       The Company's ability to produce seeds can be materially impacted by weather conditions, local political conditions and the availability of reliable contract growers. 5Table of ContentsAgricultural Sciences is focused on delivering results through technology leadership. Major brands and technologies, by key product line, are listed below:Key Product LinesBrands and TechnologiesInsecticidesISOCLAST™; LORSBAN™; RADIANT™; SENTRICON™; TRACER™FungicidesDITHANE™; INATREQ™HerbicidesARYLEX™; BROADWAY™; CLINCHER™; DURANGO™; FENCER™; GARLON™; LONTREL™; MILESTONE™; PANZER™; PRIMUS™; RINSKOR™; SPIDER™; STARANE™; SURESTART™; TORDON™SeedsAGROMEN™(1); BRODBECK™ Seeds; DAIRYLAND SEED™; DOW™ Seeds; MYCOGEN™ Seeds; NEXERA™; Omega-9 Healthier Oils; PFISTER™ Seeds; PHYTOGEN™; POWERCORE™ Insect Trait Technology(2); PRAIRIE BRAND™ Seeds;  REFUGE ADVANCED™ powered by SmartStax®(2); SmartStax® Insect Trait Technology(2)OtherN-SERVE™ Nitrogen Stabilizer; TELONE™(1) AGROMEN trademark used under license from Agromen Sementes Agricolas Ltda.(2) Smartstax® and POWERCORE™ multi-event technology developed by Dow AgroSciences LLC and Monsanto. Smartstax®, the Smartstax® logo, POWERCORE™ and the POWERCORE™ logo are trademarks of Monsanto Technology, LLC.U.S. federal regulatory approvals have been obtained for the commercialization of ENLIST™ Corn, Soybeans and Cotton, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's ("EPA") registration of ENLIST DUO™ for use with ENLIST™ Corn and Soybeans in 15 key states. The Company has also secured approval of the registration of ENLIST E3™ Soybeans in Argentina and approval of the registration of ENLIST™ Soybean Seeds and Corn Seeds in Brazil. Regulatory approvals for ENLIST™ products in certain other countries are still pending. After the EPA’s registration of ENLIST DUO™ for use with ENLIST™ Corn and Soybeans, the National Resources Defense Council, Center for Food Safety and other organizations filed suit against the EPA to set aside the registration in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (the "Court"), and Dow AgroSciences intervened in the cases. In late November 2015, the EPA filed a motion to vacate and remand the registration to the EPA. Dow AgroSciences opposed the motion to vacate the registration. On January 25, 2016, the Court denied the EPA’s motion to vacate the registration, so the ENLIST DUO™ registration for use with ENLIST™ Corn and Soybeans remains fully intact.Patents, Trademarks and LicensesAgricultural Sciences has significant technology-driven growth, led by plant biotechnology traits and crop protection products that utilize proprietary formulations. As a result, the Company uses patents, trademarks, licenses and registrations to protect its investment in germplasm, traits and proprietary chemistries and formulations. The Company also licenses plant biotechnology traits from third parties and engages in research collaborations with global industry, academia and governments. The Company does not regard the Agricultural Sciences segment as being materially dependent on any single or group of related patents, trademarks, licenses or registrations. CompetitionAgricultural Sciences competes with producers of crop protection chemicals and agricultural biotechnology in the United States and abroad. The Company competes on the basis of technology and trait leadership, price, quality and cost competitiveness. Key competitors include BASF, Bayer, DuPont, Monsanto and Syngenta, as well as generic and regional seed companies.DistributionAgricultural Sciences has a diverse worldwide network which markets and distributes the Company's brands to customers globally. This network consists of the Company's sales and marketing organization partnering with distributors, independent retailers and growers, cooperatives and agents throughout the world. SeasonalityAgricultural Sciences sales and EBITDA are strongest in the first half of the year, aligning with the planting and growing season in the northern hemisphere, where approximately 60 percent of the segment's annual sales are generated. Inventory tends to be at peak levels in the first half of the year, in advance of the northern hemisphere planting and growing season. Accounts receivable tends to be highest during the second quarter, consistent with the peak sales period in the northern hemisphere. 6Table of ContentsDivestitureOn July 31, 2015, the Company sold its AgroFresh business to AgroFresh Solutions, Inc ("AFSI"). The AgroFresh business was reported in the Agricultural Sciences segment through the date of divestiture. The Company has retained a minority interest in AFSI which is also reported in the Agricultural Sciences segment. CONSUMER SOLUTIONSThe Consumer Solutions segment consists of three global businesses: Consumer Care, Dow Automotive Systems and Dow Electronic Materials. These global businesses develop and market customized materials using advanced technology and unique chemistries for specialty applications - including semiconductors and organic light-emitting diodes, adhesives and foams used by the transportation industry, and cellulosics and other polymers for innovative pharmaceutical formulations and food solutions. These businesses serve the needs of market segments as diverse as: automotive; electronics and entertainment; food and pharmaceuticals; and, personal and home care products. The segment's commitment to continuous innovation and rapid new product development enables it to maximize opportunities in emerging geographies and high-growth consumer market segments.Details on Consumer Solutions' 2015 sales, by business and geographic area, are as follows:   Consumer CareConsumer Care provides global and regional brand owners in food, pharmaceutical, personal care and home care markets with innovative formulations and ingredients designed to add value to their products and help consumers live healthier and more convenient lives. Consumer Care's principal businesses each serve one or more key market segments, as noted below:BusinessMarket SegmentsTechnologiesDow Home, Institutional & Personal Care SolutionsPersonal care, home care and specialty applications with key focus on hair care, skin care, sun care, cleansing, as well as, fabric, dish, floor, hard surface and air care applicationsFrom polymers and emollients to chelants and dispersants, Dow offers unique innovations that empower consumer brands around the world to deliver exceptional product performance and process enhancements that create value. Other notable technologies include opacifiers, rheology modifiers, surfactants and solvents.Dow Pharma and Food SolutionsPharmaceutical, food and nutritionCellulosic and other technologies help bring new classes of medicines to market and enable foods that are healthier (gluten-free, reduced oil/fat content). Notable technologies include excipients and active pharmaceutical ingredients, solubility enhancers, reagents, granulation and binders, as well as coatings and controlled release.SAFECHEM™A service business responsible for the sustainable and innovative use of solventsOffers cleaning solutions, equipment and services for metal and dry cleaning applications. Provides closed-loop SAFE-TAINER™ System delivery systems to ensure emission free use of cleaning agents.7Table of ContentsDow Automotive Systems Dow Automotive Systems is a leading global provider of collaborative solutions and advanced materials for original equipment manufacturers, tier suppliers, aftermarket customers and commercial transportation manufacturers. Dow Automotive Systems’ leading technologies, materials engineering, testing and service support are complemented by a robust line of structural, elastic and rubber-to-substrate adhesives; composite materials technologies; polyurethane foams and acoustical management systems; and films and fluids.Dow Automotive Systems’ principal businesses offer the following technologies and serve the following market segments:BusinessMarket SegmentsTechnologiesAdhesivesElastic, structural and specialty adhesivesInnovative and differentiated adhesive technologies to meet customer specifications for durability and crash performancePerformance SolutionsPerformance plastics, fluids and polyurethane foam solutionsTechnologies that differentiate customers’ products with improved performance characteristicsDow Electronic Materials Dow Electronic Materials is a leading global supplier of enabling materials for a broad range of consumer electronics including smartphones, tablets, television monitors and personal computers, as well as electronic devices and systems used in a variety of industries. The business produces materials for chemical mechanical planarization ("CMP"); materials used in the production of electronic displays, including films, filters and organic light-emitting diodes ("OLEDs"); metalorganic precursors for light-emitting diodes ("LEDs"); products and technologies that drive leading-edge semiconductor design; materials used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards; and integrated metallization processes for metal finishing and decorative applications.Dow Electronic Materials is comprised of four principal businesses, each serving one or more key market segments, as noted below:BusinessMarket SegmentsTechnologiesSemiconductor TechnologiesIntegrated circuit fabrication for memory and logicCMP consumables, photolithography materialsInterconnect TechnologiesPrinted circuit board, electronic and industrial finishingInterconnect metallization and imaging process chemistriesDisplay TechnologiesDisplay materialsDisplay films and filters, OLED materialsGrowth TechnologiesNew and emerging technologiesAdvanced chip packaging materials, metalorganic precursors, optical and ceramic materialsCompetitionThe Consumer Solutions segment experiences competition in each business within the segment. The competitors include many large, multinational chemical firms as well as a number of regional and local competitors. The segment's products have unique performance characteristics that are required by customers who demand a high-level of customer service and technical expertise from the Company's sales force and scientists; therefore, Dow is well positioned to withstand competitive threats. Key competitors include Ashland, BASF, Bayer, JSR Micro and Shin-Etsu Chemical.Joint VenturesThe Consumer Solutions segment includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning Corporation ("Dow Corning"), a joint venture that manufactures silicone and silicone products, which is owned 50 percent by the Company.On December 10, 2015, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to restructure the ownership of Dow Corning. Under the terms of the agreement, Dow will become the 100 percent owner of Dow Corning, currently a 50:50 joint venture between Dow and Corning Incorporated ("Corning"). Dow and Corning will maintain their current equity stake in the Hemlock Semiconductor Group. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016.8Table of ContentsINFRASTRUCTURE SOLUTIONSThe Infrastructure Solutions segment is comprised of an industry-leading portfolio of businesses utilizing advanced technology to deliver products such as architectural and industrial coatings, construction material ingredients, building insulation, adhesives, microbial protection for the oil and gas industry, and water technologies. With unmatched R&D capabilities, a broad range of chemistries, extensive geographic reach and strong channels to market, this segment is well positioned to capitalize on market trends. The segment has broad geographic reach with sales in nearly 150 countries and R&D and manufacturing facilities located in key geographic areas.Details on Infrastructure Solutions' 2015 sales, by business and geographic area, are as follows:      Dow Building & Construction Dow Building & Construction is comprised of two businesses - Dow Building Solutions and Dow Construction Chemicals. Leveraging more than 60 years of building science experience and deep application expertise, as well as 75 years of STYROFOAM™ brand products, Dow creates high-performance solutions designed to help make residential and commercial buildings more comfortable, last longer, save energy and reduce emissions. The business group offers extensive lines of industry-leading durable insulation solutions and functional ingredients that provide improved thermal performance, air sealing, weatherization, waterproofing and fire retardancy for construction products.    Dow Coating Materials The Dow Coating Materials business manufactures and delivers solutions that leverage high quality, technologically advanced product offerings for architectural paint and coatings, as well as industrial coatings applications, including paper, leather, concrete, wood, automotive, maintenance and protective industries. Dow Coating Materials introduced the industry's first waterborne technology in 1953 and has since led the industry's conversion away from solvent borne technology to allow for lower volatile organic compounds and an improved sustainability profile while pushing performance boundaries.Energy & Water SolutionsEnergy & Water Solutions is comprised of four businesses - Dow Microbial Control; Dow Oil, Gas & Mining; Dow Solar; and Dow Water and Process Solutions. Dow Microbial Control provides technology used to predict, diagnose and sustainably solve the planet’s most difficult microbial challenges while Dow Oil, Gas & Mining is helping to provide energy to the world by supplying smart, innovative and customized solutions to enable the tapping of both conventional and unconventional sources. Providing building-integrated photovoltaics, Dow Solar enables energy solutions in the infrastructure market sector. Also aligned to the infrastructure market sector is Dow Water and Process Solutions, a leading provider of purification and separation technologies including reverse osmosis membranes and ion exchange resins to help customers with a broad array of separation and purification needs such as reusing waste water streams, making fresh drinking water from sea water, creating a closed loop water system for oil field operations, and removing impurities in dairy processing. Performance Monomers The Performance Monomers business produces monomer products that are sold externally as well as consumed internally as building blocks used in downstream polymer businesses. The business' products are used in several applications, including dispersions and emulsions for adhesives, coatings, inks, woven and non-woven textiles, plastics and polymers and superabsorbent products. Included in this portfolio is Plastics Additives, a worldwide supplier of additives used in a large variety of applications ranging from construction materials and packaging containers to consumer appliances and electronics, business machines and automotive parts.9Table of ContentsProductsInfrastructure Solutions' businesses each serve one or more key market segments, as noted below:BusinessApplications/Market SegmentsMajor ProductsDow Building & ConstructionRigid and spray foam insulation; weatherization, waterproofing and air sealing; caulks and sealants; elastomeric roof coatings; exterior insulation finishing systems; roof tiles and siding; industrial non-wovens; cement-based tile adhesives; plasters and renders; tape joint compounds; and concrete additivesAQUASET™ acrylic thermosetting resins, DOW™ latex powder, FROTH-PAK™ foam insulation and sealants, GREAT STUFF™ insulating foam sealants and adhesives, RHOPLEX™ and PRIMAL™ acrylic emulsion polymers, STYROFOAM™ brand insulation products, THERMAX™ exterior insulation, WALOCEL™ cellulose ethers, WEATHERMATE™ house wrap, XENERGY™ high performance insulation, LIQUID ARMOR™ flashing and sealantDow Coating MaterialsAcrylic binders for architectural paint and coatings, industrial coatings, and paper; dispersants; rheology modifiers; opacifiers and surfactants for both architectural and industrial applications; protective and functional coatingsACRYSOL™ Rheology Modifiers, AVANSE™ acrylic binders, EVOQUE™ Pre-Composite Polymer, FORMASHIELD™ acrylic binder, RHOPLEX™ acrylic resin, TAMOL™ Dispersants, MAINCOTE™ acrylic epoxy hybrid, PARALOID™ Edge ISO-free technology and ACOUSTICRYL™ liquid-applied sound damping technologyEnergy & Water SolutionsHelping customers in exploration, production, transmission, refining and gas processing to optimize supply, improve efficiencies and manage emissions. Providing expertise and localized solutions for microbial control for well souring, industrial cooling water, fabric odor elimination, in-can preservation and dry film protection. Providing advanced, cost effective separation and purification technology for water treatment and filtration, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical processingDemulsifiers, drilling and completion fluids, heat transfer fluids, rheology modifiers, scale inhibitors, shale inhibitors, specialty amine solvents, surfactants, water clarifiers, DOW ADSORBSIA™ selective media, DOW EDI™ modules, DOWEX™ and AMBERJET™ ion exchange resins, DOWEX™ OPTIPORE™ polymeric adsorbent resins, DOW FILMTEC™ reverse osmosis and nanofiltration elements, TEQUATIC™ PLUS fine particle filter, AMBERLYST™ polymeric catalysts, AQUCAR™, BIOBAN™, SILVADUR™ antimicrobial, DOW POWERHOUSE™ Solar ShinglesPerformance MonomersSuper absorbents, water treatment, flocculants and detergents, acrylic sheets, coatings, inks and paints, molding compounds, impact modifiers, processing aids, electronic displays, adhesives, textiles, automotive and architectural safety glass, and plastics additivesAcrylates, methacrylates, vinyl acetate monomers, high-quality impact modifiers, processing aids, foam cell promoters and weatherable acrylic capstock compounds for thermoplastic and thermosetting materialsCompetitionCompetitors of the Infrastructure Solutions segment include many large multinational chemical firms as well as a number of regional and local competitors. The segment's products have unique performance characteristics that are required by customers who demand a high level of customer service and expertise from our sales force and scientists; therefore, Dow is well positioned to withstand competitive threats. Key competitors include Arkema, Ashland, BASF, Elementis, Hydranautics, Lanxess, Lonza, Owens-Corning and Shin-Etsu Chemical.Joint VenturesThe Infrastructure Solutions segment includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of Dow Corning, a joint venture that manufactures silicone and silicone products, which is owned 50 percent by the Company.On December 10, 2015, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to restructure the ownership of Dow Corning. Under the terms of the agreement, Dow will become the 100 percent owner of Dow Corning, currently a 50:50 joint venture between Dow and Corning. Dow and Corning will maintain their current equity stake in the Hemlock Semiconductor Group. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016.10Table of ContentsPERFORMANCE MATERIALS & CHEMICALSThe Performance Materials & Chemicals segment is comprised of three technology-driven, customer-centric global businesses that are advantaged through integration and driven by innovative technology and solutions: Chlor-Alkali and Vinyl, Industrial Solutions and Polyurethanes. Products produced by this segment are back-integrated into feedstocks, supporting a low-cost manufacturing base and consistent, reliable supply. The Performance Materials & Chemicals segment is positioned for growth through diverse markets and product offerings. The segment has broad geographic reach with sales in nearly 140 countries and manufacturing facilities located in all geographic areas. Performance Materials & Chemicals has a diverse product line that serves customers in a large number of industries including appliance, construction and industrial.Details on Performance Materials & Chemicals' 2015 sales, by business and geographic area, are as follows:      Chlor-Alkali and VinylThe Chlor-Alkali and Vinyl business provides cost-advantaged chlorine and caustic soda supply and integration for the Polyurethanes business. Chlor-Alkali and Vinyl also includes the marketing of caustic soda, a valuable co-product of the chlor-alkali manufacturing process, and ethylene dichloride and vinyl chloride monomer, essential for the production of polyvinyl chloride. Industrial Solutions The Industrial Solutions business enables manufacturing of the world’s goods and services with additive solutions that minimize friction and heat in mechanical processes, manage the oil and water interface, deliver active ingredients for maximum effectiveness, facilitate dissolvability and provide the foundational building blocks for the development of chemical technologies. The business supports industrial manufacturers associated with virtually all end-markets, notably electronics, agricultural chemicals, engine/heavy equipment, coatings, adhesives and inks, and detergents and cleaners. Industrial Solutions is also the world’s largest producer of purified ethylene oxide. Approximately 80 percent of the ethylene oxide produced by Dow is consumed within the Performance Materials & Chemicals segment.PolyurethanesPolyurethanes is comprised of four businesses: Isocyanates, Polyols, Polyurethane Systems and Propylene Oxide/Propylene Glycol ("PO/PG"). The Polyurethanes business is the world’s largest producer of propylene oxide and propylene glycol as well a leading producer of polyether polyols and aromatic isocyanates that serve energy efficiency, consumer comfort and industrial market sectors. Propylene oxide is produced using the chlorohydrins process as well as by hydrogen peroxide to propylene oxide manufacturing technology(1). Performance Materials & Chemicals businesses consume approximately 90 percent of the propylene oxide produced or procured by Dow. CompetitionCompetition for the Performance Materials & Chemicals segment varies based on the business. Key competitors include large, international chemical companies as well as chemical divisions of major national and international oil companies. Performance Materials & Chemicals back-integration into feedstocks supports a low-cost manufacturing base and consistent, reliable product supply. Dow is a full-service supplier with a global technical service network located close to the customer, which allows the Company to fuel growth in specialty applications and collaborate with customers to invent unique chemistries and tailored solutions. In addition to its competitive cost position, reliable supply and superior customer service, the Company also competes worldwide on the basis of quality, technology and price. Key competitors include BASF, Bayer, Hexion and Huntsman.(1) Hydrogen peroxide to propylene oxide manufacturing technology is utilized by MTP HPPO Manufacturing Company Limited, a Thailand-based consolidated variable interest entity ultimately owned 50 percent by the Company and 50 percent by SCG Chemicals Co. Ltd.; and BASF DOW HPPO Production B.V.B.A., a Belgium-based joint venture ultimately owned 100 percent by HPPO Holding & Finance C.V., which is owned 50 percent by the Company and 50 percent by BASF.11Table of ContentsDistributionThe Performance Materials & Chemicals segment markets its products primarily through the Company's sales force and also utilizes distributors worldwide.Joint VenturesThe Performance Materials & Chemicals segment includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of the following joint ventures:•EQUATE Petrochemicals Company K.S.C. ("EQUATE") - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene, polyethylene and ethylene glycol; owned 42.5 percent by the Company.•The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene and ethylene glycol; owned 42.5 percent by the Company.  •Map Ta Phut Olefins Company Limited - effective ownership is 32.77 percent of which the Company directly owns 20.27 percent (aligned with Performance Materials & Chemicals) and indirectly owns 12.5 percent through its equity interest in Siam Polyethylene Company Limited and Siam Synthetic Latex Company Limited (both part of The SCG-Dow Group and aligned with Performance Plastics). This Thailand-based company manufactures propylene and ethylene.  •Sadara Chemical Company - a development-stage Saudi Arabian company that will manufacture chlorine, ethylene and propylene for internal consumption and will produce and sell high-value added chemical products and performance plastics; owned 35 percent by the Company.On December 23, 2015, the Company sold its 50 percent ownership interest in MEGlobal, a manufacturer and marketer of monoethylene glycol, diethylene glycol and polyethylene terephthalate resins headquartered in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, to EQUATE. MEGlobal was aligned 100 percent with Performance Materials & Chemicals through the date of divestiture. Dow has retained 42.5 percent ownership stake in MEGlobal through its ownership in EQUATE. The Performance Materials & Chemicals segment will continue to include a portion of the equity earnings from EQUATE, which will include the results of MEGlobal. DivestituresOn January 30, 2015, the Company sold its global Sodium Borohydride business to Vertellus Specialty Materials LLC. On February 2, 2015, the Company sold ANGUS Chemical Company to Golden Gate Capital. On October 5, 2015, the Company completed the split-off of its U.S. Gulf Coast Chlor-Alkali and Vinyl, Global Chlorinated Organics and Global Epoxy businesses to Olin Corporation in a tax-efficient Reverse Morris Trust transaction. These businesses were reported in the Performance Materials & Chemicals segment through the date of divestiture.PERFORMANCE PLASTICSThe Performance Plastics segment is the world’s leading plastics franchise, and is a market-oriented portfolio composed of five global businesses: Dow Elastomers, Dow Electrical and Telecommunications, Dow Packaging and Specialty Plastics, Energy and Hydrocarbons. The segment is advantaged through its low cost position into key feedstocks and broad geographic reach, with sales in 115 countries and manufacturing facilities located in all geographic areas. It also benefits from Dow’s R&D expertise to deliver leading-edge technology that provides a competitive benefit to customers in key strategic markets.Details on Performance Plastics' 2015 sales, by business and geographic area, are as follows:      Dow Elastomers, Dow Electrical and Telecommunications, and Dow Packaging and Specialty Plastics serve high-growth, high-value sectors where Dow's world-class technology and rich innovation pipeline creates competitive advantages for customers 12Table of Contentsand the entire value chain. Together, these three global businesses have complimentary market reach, asset capabilities and technology platforms that provide the Company with immediate and long-term growth synergies. Market growth is expected to be driven by major shifts in population demographics, improving socioeconomic status in emerging geographies, consumer and brand owner demand for increased consumer convenience, efforts to reduce food waste, growth in telecommunications networks, specifically broadband and LTE networks, and global development of electrical transmission and distribution infrastructure and renewable energy applications. Market segments served by these businesses include adhesives, construction, food and specialty packaging, footwear, industrial and consumer packaging, hygiene and medical, infrastructure, pipe, telecommunications and transportation.  The Energy business is one of the world’s largest industrial energy producers. This business produces or procures the energy used by Dow, sells energy to customers located on Dow manufacturing sites and also engages in opportunistic merchant sales driven by market conditions. Because of its unparalleled scale, purchasing power and global reach, the Energy business offers Dow tremendous knowledge of world energy markets and the agility to respond to sudden changes in conditions. The Hydrocarbons business is one of the largest global producers of ethylene, an internal feedstock that is consumed primarily within Performance Plastics. The Hydrocarbons business is also a large purchaser and producer of propylene. The Company strategically locates its polyethylene production facilities near its ethylene production facilities to optimize integration benefits and drive low costs. Dow's global scale, operational discipline and feedstock flexibility create a cost-advantaged foundation for the Company's downstream, market-driven businesses. In North America, shale gas opportunities - and the resulting increased supplies of natural gas and natural gas liquids (“NGLs”) - remain a key, cost-competitive position for the Company's ethane- and propane-based production. The Company's U.S. and European ethylene production facilities allow Dow to use different feedstocks in response to price conditions. Meanwhile, the Company's U.S. Gulf Coast investments will strengthen ethylene and propylene integration and establish a platform for growth of Dow's downstream businesses.ProductsMajor applications/market segments and products are listed below by business:BusinessApplications/Market Segments Major ProductsDow ElastomersAdhesives, footwear, housewares, infrastructure, sports recreation, toys and infant products, transportation Elastomers, polyolefin plastomers, ethylene propylene diene monomer elastomers ("EPDMs")Dow Electrical and TelecommunicationsBuilding and construction, electrical transmission and distribution infrastructure, telecommunications infrastructure Wire and cable insulation, semiconductive and jacketing compound solutions, bio-based plasticizers Dow Packaging and Specialty PlasticsAdhesives, food and specialty packaging, hygiene and medical, industrial and consumer packaging, photovoltaic Acrylics, polyethylene, low-density polyethylene, linear low-density polyethylene, high-density polyethylene, polyolefin emulsions, polyolefin plastomers EnergyPrincipally for use in Dow’s global operationsPower, steam and other utilitiesHydrocarbonsPurchaser of feedstocks; production of cost competitive monomers utilized by Dow’s derivative businessesEthylene, propylene, benzene, butadiene, octene, aromatics co-products, crude C4Advantaged feedstock positions in the United States, Canada, Argentina and the Middle EastCompetitionCompetition for the Performance Plastics segment includes chemical divisions of major national and international oil companies, which provide competition in the United States and abroad. Dow competes worldwide on the basis of product quality, product supply, technology, price and customer service. Performance Plastics will continue to benefit from an advantaged feedstock position, including favorable shale gas dynamics in the United States, which will further strengthen the Company's low-cost position and enhance global cost competitiveness. Key competitors include Borealis, ExxonMobil, INEOS, LyondellBasell, Mitsui and SABIC.Joint VenturesJoint ventures play an integral role within the Performance Plastics segment by dampening earnings cyclicality and improving earnings growth. Principal joint ventures impacting Performance Plastics are noted in the following section.13Table of ContentsAligned 100 percent with Performance Plastics:•The Kuwait Styrene Company K.S.C. - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures styrene monomer; owned 42.5 percent by the Company.•The SCG-Dow Group consists of Siam Polyethylene Company Limited; Siam Polystyrene Company Limited; Siam Styrene Monomer Co., Ltd.; and Siam Synthetic Latex Company Limited. These Thailand-based companies manufacture polyethylene, polystyrene, styrene and latex; owned 50 percent by the Company.Performance Plastics includes a portion of the results of:•EQUATE Petrochemicals Company K.S.C. ("EQUATE") - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene, polyethylene and ethylene glycol; owned 42.5 percent by the Company.•The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C. - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene and ethylene glycol; owned 42.5 percent by the Company.•Map Ta Phut Olefins Company Limited - effective ownership is 32.77 percent of which the Company directly owns 20.27 percent (aligned with Performance Materials & Chemicals) and indirectly owns 12.5 percent through its equity interest in Siam Polyethylene Company Limited and Siam Synthetic Latex Company Limited (both part of The SCG-Dow Group and aligned with Performance Plastics). This Thailand-based company manufactures propylene and ethylene.  •Sadara Chemical Company - a development-stage Saudi Arabian company that will manufacture chlorine, ethylene and propylene for internal consumption and will produce and sell high-value added chemical products and performance plastics; owned 35 percent by the Company.On May 5, 2015, Univation Technologies, LLC, previously a 50:50 joint venture between Dow and ExxonMobil Chemical Company, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Dow. On December 23, 2015, the Company sold its 50 percent ownership interest in MEGlobal, a manufacturer and marketer of monoethylene glycol, diethylene glycol and polyethylene terephthalate resins headquartered in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, to EQUATE. MEGlobal was aligned 100 percent with the Performance Materials & Chemicals segment through the date of divestiture. Dow has retained 42.5 percent ownership stake in MEGlobal through its ownership in EQUATE.DivestituresOn December 2, 2013, the Company sold its Polypropylene Licensing and Catalysts business to W. R. Grace & Co. This business was reported in the Performance Plastics segment through the date of divestiture.Future InvestmentsThe Company announced a number of investments in the U.S. Gulf Coast to take advantage of increasing supplies of low-cost natural gas and NGLs derived from shale gas. As a result of these investments, the Company’s exposure to purchased ethylene and propylene is expected to decline, offset by increased exposure to ethane and propane based feedstocks. The Company announced investments in a new on-purpose propylene production facility, which commenced operations in December 2015, and a new, world-scale ethylene production facility, which is expected to start-up in the first half of 2017, both located in Freeport, Texas. As a result of these U.S. Gulf Coast investments, Dow’s ethylene production capabilities are expected to increase by as much as 20 percent.The Company announced the location of four new Performance Plastics production facilities to be built on the U.S. Gulf Coast, which include an ELITE™ Polymer production facility in Freeport, Texas; a Low Density Polyethylene (LDPE) production facility in Plaquemine, Louisiana; a NORDEL™ Metallocene EPDM production facility in Plaquemine, Louisiana; and a High Melt Index (HMI) AFFINITY™ Polymer production facility in Freeport, Texas. Leveraging a low cost ethylene supply from advantaged feedstock positions from U.S. shale gas, these production facilities will support expected profitable growth of the Company's high value Performance Plastics franchise. CORPORATECorporate includes certain enterprise and governance activities (including insurance operations, geographic management, risk management such as foreign currency hedging activities, audit fees, donations, Company branding initiatives, etc.); the results of Ventures (including business incubation platforms and non-business aligned joint ventures); environmental operations; gains and losses on the sales of financial assets; severance costs; non-business aligned litigation expenses (including asbestos-related defense costs and reserve adjustments); and, foreign exchange results.14Table of ContentsINDUSTRY SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA RESULTSSee Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding sales, EBITDA and total assets by segment as well as sales and total assets by geographic area.SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTSAll products and services are marketed primarily through the Company’s sales force, although in some instances more emphasis is placed on sales through distributors. No significant portion of any operating segment's sales is dependent upon a single customer. No single product accounted for more than five percent of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2015.RAW MATERIALSThe Company operates in an integrated manufacturing environment. Basic raw materials are processed through many stages to produce a number of products that are sold as finished goods at various points in those processes. The two major raw material streams that feed the production of the Company’s finished goods are hydrocarbon-based and chlorine-based raw materials. The Company also produces a portion of its electricity needs in Louisiana and Texas; Alberta, Canada; and Germany.The Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including ethane, propane, butane, naphtha and condensate as feedstocks. These raw materials are used in the production of both saleable products and energy. The Company also purchases certain monomers, primarily ethylene and propylene, to supplement internal production. The Company purchases natural gas, primarily to generate electricity, and purchases electric power to supplement internal generation. Expenditures for hydrocarbon feedstocks and energy accounted for 27 percent of the Company’s production costs and operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015. The Company purchases these raw materials on both short- and long-term contracts.The Company had adequate supplies of raw materials during 2015, and expects to continue to have adequate supplies of raw materials in 2016. Significant raw materials, by operating segment, are listed below:Significant Raw MaterialsPerformance Materials & Chemicals Raw MaterialAgricultural SciencesConsumer SolutionsInfrastructure SolutionsPerformance PlasticsAcetone  x  Ammonia  xxxAniline   x Benzene   xxButadiene  x xButanol (1)  x  Butene   xxCarbon Black x x Carbon Monoxide   xxChlorinexxxx Condensate    xElectric Power   xxEthane    xEthanolxxxxxEthylene (1)  xxxFormaldehyde xxx Hexene    xHydrogen Peroxide (2)   x Liquified Petroleum Gases    xMethanolx xxxNaphtha    xNatural Gas    xOctene    xPolystyrene  x xPropane x  xPropylene (1) xxxxPygas    xStyrene   xx Wood Pulp x   (1)    Produced by the Company and procured from external sources for internal consumption.(2)    Primarily produced and procured by a consolidated variable interest entity.15Table of ContentsRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTThe Company is engaged in a continuous program of basic and applied research to develop new products and processes, to improve and refine existing products and processes, and to develop new applications for existing products. Research and development expenses were $1,598 million in 2015, $1,647 million in 2014 and $1,747 million in 2013. At December 31, 2015, the Company employed approximately 6,800 people in various research and development activities.PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKSThe Company continually applies for and obtains U.S. and foreign patents and has a substantial number of pending patent applications throughout the world. At December 31, 2015, the Company owned 4,651 active U.S. patents and 19,541 active foreign patents as follows: Patents Owned at December 31, 2015 United States ForeignAgricultural Sciences 940 3,886Consumer Solutions 1,187 3,686Infrastructure Solutions 950 5,185Performance Materials & Chemicals 363 1,994Performance Plastics 1,102 4,559Corporate 109 231Total 4,651 19,541 Remaining Life of Patents Owned at December 31, 2015   United States ForeignWithin 5 years 969 3,0536 to 10 years 1,023 5,54011 to 15 years 1,479 8,20916 to 20 years 1,180 2,739Total 4,651 19,541 Dow’s primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect the results of its research for use in operations and licensing. Dow is also party to a substantial number of patent licenses and other technology agreements. The Company had revenue related to patent and technology royalties totaling $357 million in 2015, $388 million in 2014 and $327 million in 2013. The Company incurred royalties to others of $198 million in 2015, $170 million in 2014 and $198 million in 2013. Dow also has a substantial number of trademarks and trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries, including the “Dow in Diamond” trademark. Although the Company considers that its patents, licenses and trademarks in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, it does not regard its business as being materially dependent on any single or group of related patents, licenses or trademarks.16Table of ContentsPRINCIPAL PARTLY OWNED COMPANIESDow’s principal nonconsolidated affiliates at December 31, 2015, including direct or indirect ownership interest for each, are listed below:Principal Nonconsolidated Affiliate Ownership Interest Business DescriptionDow Corning Corporation (1) 50.00% A U.S. company that manufactures silicone and silicone productsEQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C. (2)  42.50% A Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene, polyethylene and ethylene glycol, and manufactures and markets monoethylene glycol, diethylene glycol and polyethylene terephthalate resinsThe Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C.  42.50% A Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene and ethylene glycolThe Kuwait Styrene Company K.S.C. 42.50% A Kuwait-based company that manufactures styrene monomerMap Ta Phut Olefins Company Limited (3) 32.77% A Thailand-based company that manufactures propylene and ethyleneSadara Chemical Company 35.00% A development-stage Saudi Arabian company that will manufacture chlorine, ethylene and propylene for internal consumption and will produce and sell high-value added chemical products and performance plasticsThe SCG-Dow Group:    Siam Polyethylene Company Limited 50.00% A Thailand-based company that manufactures polyethyleneSiam Polystyrene Company Limited 50.00% A Thailand-based company that manufactures polystyreneSiam Styrene Monomer Co., Ltd. 50.00% A Thailand-based company that manufactures styreneSiam Synthetic Latex Company Limited 50.00% A Thailand-based company that manufactures latex(1)On December 10, 2015, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to restructure the ownership of Dow Corning. Under the terms of the agreement, Dow will become the 100 percent owner of Dow Corning, currently a 50:50 joint venture between Dow and Corning. Dow and Corning will maintain their current equity stake in the Hemlock Semiconductor Group. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016.(2)On December 23, 2015, the Company sold its 50 percent ownership interest in MEGlobal to EQUATE. Dow indirectly owns 42.5 percent of MEGlobal through its equity interest in EQUATE. MEGlobal was treated as a separate principal nonconsolidated affiliate through the date of divestiture. (3)The Company's effective ownership of Map Ta Phut Olefins Company Limited is 32.77 percent, of which the Company directly owns 20.27 percent and indirectly owns 12.5 percent through its equity interest in Siam Polyethylene Company Limited and Siam Synthetic Latex Company Limited.See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding nonconsolidated affiliates.FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALESIn 2015, the Company derived 65 percent of its sales and had 38 percent of its property investment outside the United States. While the Company’s international operations may be subject to a number of additional risks, such as changes in currency exchange rates and geopolitical risks in emerging geographies, the Company does not regard its foreign operations, on the whole, as carrying any greater risk than its operations in the United States. Information on sales and long-lived assets by geographic area for each of the last three years appears in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and discussions of the Company’s risk management program for foreign exchange and interest rate risk management appear in Part I, . Risk Factors; Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, detailed information on Dow's performance regarding environmental matters and goals can be found online on Dow's Sustainability webpage at www.dow.com. The Company's website and its content are not deemed incorporated by reference into this report.17Table of ContentsEMPLOYEESAs of December 31, 2015, the Company employed approximately 49,500 people on a full-time basis, with approximately 50 percent located in North America, 25 percent located in Europe, Middle East, Africa and India, and 25 percent located in other locations. OTHER ACTIVITIESDow engages in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business primarily through its Liana Limited subsidiaries.EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTSet forth below is information related to the Company’s executive officers as of February 12, 2016.Name - AgePresent Position with RegistrantYear Elected to be an OfficerOther Business Experience since January 1, 2011Ronald C. Edmonds, 58Vice President and Controller2009Vice President and Controller 2009 to date.James R. Fitterling, 54President and Chief Operating Officer2010Dow Executive Vice President and President, Plastics and Hydrocarbons August 2010 to September 2011. Executive Vice President and President, Feedstocks & Energy and Corporate Development September 2011 to September 2012. Executive Vice President, Feedstocks, Performance Plastics, Asia and Latin America September 2012 to December 2013. Executive Vice President, Feedstocks, Performance Plastics and Supply Chain December 2013 to October 2014. Vice Chairman, Business Operations October 2014 to October 2015. Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer October 2015 to February 2016. Present position held since February 2016.Heinz Haller, 60Executive Vice President and President of Dow Europe, Middle East, Africa and India2006Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer August 2010 to September 2012. Present position held since September 2012.Joe E. Harlan, 56Vice Chairman and Chief Commercial Officer2011Executive Vice President of Consumer & Office Business, 3M Company 2009 to August 2011. Executive Vice President, Performance Materials September 2011 to September 2012. Executive Vice President, Chemicals, Energy and Performance Materials September 2012 to October 2014. Chief Commercial Officer and Vice Chairman, Market Businesses October 2014 to October 2015. Present position held since October 2015.Peter Holicki, 55Senior Vice President, Operations, Manufacturing & Engineering, Environment, Health & Safety Operations, and Emergency Services & Security2014Global Manufacturing Vice President, Hydrocarbons May 2009 to October 2012. Vice President for Manufacturing and Engineering Europe, Middle East and Africa May 2009 to October 2012. Vice President of Operations for Europe, Middle East and Africa and the Ethylene Envelope October 2012 to December 2013. Emergency Services and Security Expertise September 2014 to present. Corporate Vice President October 2014 to October 2015. Present position held since 2015.Charles J. Kalil, 64General Counsel and Executive Vice President2004General Counsel 2004 to date. Executive Vice President 2008 to date. Corporate Secretary 2005 to February 2015.Andrew N. Liveris, 61Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board2003President 2004 to February 2016. Chief Executive Officer 2004 to date. Chairman 2006 to date.Fernando Ruiz, 60Corporate Vice President and Treasurer2001Vice President 2001 to 2005. Treasurer 2001 to date. Corporate Vice President 2005 to date.Johanna Söderström, 44Corporate Vice President, Human Resources and Aviation2015Global Human Resources Director, Performance Materials Division January 2011 to October 2012. Vice President, Human Resource Center of Expertise October 2012 to January 2015. Present position held since January 2015.A. N. Sreeram, 48Senior Vice President, Research & Development and Chief Technology Officer2013Vice President, Research & Development, Dow Advanced Materials 2009 to October 2013. Corporate Vice President, Research & Development October 2013 to October 2015. Present position held since October 2015.Howard I. Ungerleider, 47Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer2011Vice President, Investor Relations 2008 to March 2011. Senior Vice President and President, Performance Plastics March 2011 to September 2012. Executive Vice President, Advanced Materials September 2012 to October 2014. Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President October 2014 to October 2015. Present position held since October 2015.18Table of ContentsThe Dow Chemical Company and SubsidiariesPART I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.RISK FACTORSThe factors described below represent the Company's principal risks. Global Economic Considerations: The Company operates in a global, competitive environment which gives rise to operating and market risk exposure.The Company sells its broad range of products and services in a competitive, global environment, and competes worldwide for sales on the basis of product quality, price, technology and customer service. Increased levels of competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volume, which could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. Sales of the Company's products are also subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, trade agreements, import and export controls, and duties and tariffs. The imposition by foreign governments of additional regulations, controls and duties and tariffs or the enactment of bilateral and regional trade agreements could result in lower sales volume which could negatively impact the Company's results of operations. Economic conditions around the world, and in certain industries in which the Company does business also impact sales prices and volume. As a result, market uncertainty or an economic downturn in the geographic areas or industries in which Dow sells its products could reduce demand for these products and result in decreased sales volume, which could have a negative impact on Dow's results of operations. In addition, volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit customers' ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations, which could result in a decrease in sales volume and have a negative impact on Dow's results of operations. The Company's global business operations also give rise to market risk exposure related to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and other market factors such as equity prices. To manage such risks, Dow enters into hedging transactions pursuant to established guidelines and policies. If Dow fails to effectively manage such risks, it could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations.Financial Commitments and Credit Markets: Market conditions could reduce the Company's flexibility to respond to changing business conditions or fund capital needs.Adverse economic conditions could reduce the Company's flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund capital expenditures or working capital needs. The economic environment could result in a contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace and reduce sources of liquidity for the Company. This could result in higher borrowing costs.Raw Materials: Availability of purchased feedstocks and energy, and the volatility of these costs, impact Dow’s operating costs and add variability to earnings. Purchased feedstock and energy costs account for a substantial portion of the Company’s total production costs and operating expenses. The Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including ethane, propane, butane, naphtha and condensate as feedstocks. The Company also purchases certain monomers, primarily ethylene and propylene, to supplement internal production, as well as other raw materials. The Company purchases natural gas, primarily to generate electricity, and purchases electric power to supplement internal generation.Feedstock and energy costs generally follow price trends in crude oil and natural gas, which are sometimes volatile. While the Company uses its feedstock flexibility and financial and physical hedging programs to help mitigate feedstock cost increases, the Company is not always able to immediately raise selling prices. Ultimately, the ability to pass on underlying cost increases is dependent on market conditions. Conversely, when feedstock and energy costs decline, selling prices generally decline as well. As a result, volatility in these costs could impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company has a number of investments in the U.S. Gulf Coast to take advantage of increasing supplies of low-cost natural gas and natural gas liquids ("NGLs") from shale gas including a new, on-purpose propylene production facility in Freeport, Texas, which commenced operations in December 2015; and a new, world-scale ethylene production facility in Freeport, Texas, with start-up expected in the first half of 2017. As a result of these and other investments, the Company’s exposure to purchased ethylene and propylene is expected to decline, offset by increased exposure to ethane and propane feedstocks.19Table of ContentsWhile the Company expects abundant and cost-advantaged supplies of NGLs in the United States to persist for the foreseeable future, if NGLs were to become significantly less advantaged than crude oil-based feedstocks, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and future investments. Also, if the Company’s key suppliers of feedstocks and energy are unable to provide the raw materials required for production, it could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations.  Supply/Demand Balance: Earnings generated by the Company's products vary based in part on the balance of supply relative to demand within the industry.The balance of supply relative to demand within the industry may be significantly impacted by the addition of new capacity, especially for basic commodities where capacity is generally added in large increments as world-scale facilities are built. This may disrupt industry balances and result in downward pressure on prices due to the increase in supply, which could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.  Litigation: The Company is party to a number of claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to commercial matters including product liability, governmental regulation and other actions.Certain of the claims and lawsuits facing the Company purport to be class actions and seek damages in very large amounts. All such claims are contested. With the exception of the possible effect of the asbestos-related liability of Union Carbide Corporation (“Union Carbide”) and certain urethane matters, described below, it is the opinion of the Company's management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of all such claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.Union Carbide is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past four decades. At December 31, 2015, Union Carbide's asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims was $437 million ($513 million at December 31, 2014) and its receivable for insurance recoveries related to the asbestos liability was $10 million ($10 million at December 31, 2014). At December 31, 2015, Union Carbide also had receivables of $51 million ($69 million at December 31, 2014) for insurance recoveries for defense and resolution costs. It is the opinion of the Company's management that it is reasonably possible that the cost of Union Carbide disposing of its asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of the Company.The Company, among others, was named as a defendant in multiple civil class action lawsuits alleging a conspiracy to fix the price of various urethane chemical products, namely polyurethane chemicals, including methylene diphenyl diisocyanate, toluene diisocyanate, polyether polyols and system house products. These lawsuits were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas (the "District Court") or have been tolled. On July 29, 2008, the District Court certified a class of purchasers of the products for the six-year period from 1999 through 2004. In January 2013, the class action lawsuit went to trial in the District Court with the Company as the sole remaining defendant, the other defendants having previously settled. On February 20, 2013, the jury returned a damages verdict of approximately $400 million against the Company, which ultimately was trebled by the District Court under applicable antitrust laws, less offsets from other settling defendants, resulting in a judgment entered in July 2013 in the amount of $1.06 billion. The Company appealed this judgment to the U.S. Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals ("Tenth Circuit" or "Court of Appeals"), and on September 29, 2014, the Court of Appeals issued an opinion affirming the District Court judgment. On October 14, 2014, the Company filed a petition for Rehearing or Rehearing En Banc (collectively the "Rehearing Petition") with the Court of Appeals, which was denied on November 7, 2014.On March 9, 2015, the Company filed a petition for writ of certiorari ("Writ Petition") with the U.S. Supreme Court, seeking judicial review by the Supreme Court and requesting that it correct fundamental errors in the Circuit Court opinion. While it is unknowable whether or not the Supreme Court will accept the Writ Petition for review, there are several compelling reasons why the Supreme Court should grant the Writ Petition and, if it is accepted, the Company believes it is likely that the District Court judgment will be vacated. Specifically, it is the Company's position that the Tenth Circuit decision violates the law as expressed by the Supreme Court as set out in Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S. Ct. 2541 (2011) and Comcast Corp. v. Behrend, 133 S. Ct. 1426 (2013). The Tenth Circuit also did not follow accepted law from other federal circuits on dispositive case issues, including legal precedent from the U.S. First, Second, Third, Fifth, Ninth and D.C. Circuit Courts. Finally, the Company argues that the erroneous law applied by the Tenth Circuit is not supported by any other federal circuit court. In April 2015, six amici filed amicus briefs in support of the Company's Writ Petition. The parties briefing is now complete. Dow filed its reply brief on May 22, 2015. On June 8, 2015, the Supreme Court granted a petition for a writ of certiorari in another case, Tyson Foods, Inc. v. Bouaphakeo, PEG, et al., ("Tyson Foods") (Supreme Court No. 14-1146), which presented an issue core to the questions presented in the Company's Writ Petition: whether class-wide damages can be determined by simply applying the average injury observed in a sample. The Company's case was considered by the Supreme Court in conference on June 11, 2015. On June 15, 2015, the Supreme Court issued its decisions from its conference and did not rule on the Company's Writ Petition. Subsequently, the Writ Petition has not been listed for further consideration by the Supreme Court at its weekly 20Table of Contentsconferences. The Company has been advised that this means that the Supreme Court is withholding further consideration of the Company's Writ Petition while it considers the Tyson Foods case on the merits. As a result, the Company does not expect any further action on its Writ Petition until sometime in 2016. The Company believes that the Supreme Court has accepted Tyson Foods for the compelling reasons also advanced by the Company in its Writ Petition and that the Supreme Court will issue an opinion in Tyson Foods that is favorable to the Company's case. Accordingly, on August 14, 2015, the Company filed an amicus brief in Tyson Foods supporting Tyson Foods’ position. The Tyson Foods oral argument occurred before the Supreme Court on November 10, 2015. The Company expects a decision from the Supreme Court on Tyson Foods in the first half of 2016, after which, depending on the result, the Supreme Court likely will consider the Company's Writ Petition. The Company has concluded it is not probable that a loss has been incurred and, therefore, a liability has not been recorded with respect to this matter. While the Company believes it is not probable a loss will occur, the existence of the jury verdict, the Court of Appeals' opinion, and subsequent denial of the Company's Rehearing Petition indicate that it is reasonably possible that a loss could occur. Shortly after the July 2008 class certification ruling, a series of "opt-out" cases were filed by a number of large volume purchasers who elected not to be class members. These opt-out cases are substantively identical to the class action lawsuit, but expanded the period of time to include 1994 through 1998. On September 30, 2014, the opt-out cases, which had been consolidated with the class action lawsuit for purposes of pre-trial proceedings were remanded from the District Court to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. A consolidated trial of the opt-out cases is set to begin on March 7, 2016. As with the class case, the Company denies plaintiffs' allegations of price fixing and maintains that the opt-out plaintiffs cannot prove a compensable injury. As a result, the Company has concluded it is not probable a loss has been incurred and, therefore, a liability is not recorded with respect to these cases.In addition to the matters described above, there are two separate but inter-related matters in Ontario and Quebec, Canada. In March 2014, the Superior Court of Justice in London, Ontario, ruled in favor of the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification.  The Company filed its Notice of Motion for Leave to Appeal in March 2014, which was subsequently denied. This matter is currently in the pretrial stage, but no trial date has been set. The Quebec case has been stayed pending the outcome of the Ontario case. For the same reasons stated above, a liability has not been recorded with respect to either Canadian matter.Environmental Compliance: The costs of complying with evolving regulatory requirements could negatively impact the Company's financial results. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment, greenhouse gas emissions, and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. At December 31, 2015, the Company had accrued obligations of $670 million ($706 million at December 31, 2014) for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $74 million ($78 million at December 31, 2014) for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is management's best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although it is reasonably possible that the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately two and a half times that amount. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt the Company's operations, or require modifications to its facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters could result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities. Chemical Safety: Increased concerns regarding the safe use of chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on the environment as well as perceived impacts of plant biotechnology on health and the environment have resulted in more restrictive regulations from local, state and federal governments and could lead to new regulations.Concerns regarding the safe use of chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on health and the environment and the perceived impacts of plant biotechnology on health and the environment reflect a growing trend in societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection. These concerns could manifest themselves in stockholder proposals, preferred purchasing, delays or failures in obtaining or retaining regulatory approvals, delayed product launches, lack of market acceptance, continued pressure for more stringent regulatory intervention and litigation. These concerns could also influence public perceptions, the viability of the Company's products, the Company's reputation and the cost to comply with regulations. In addition, terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concerns about the security and safety of chemical production and distribution. These concerns could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations.Local, state and federal governments continue to propose new regulations related to the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs. 21Table of ContentsOperational Event: A significant operational event could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.As a diversified chemical manufacturing company, the Company's operations, the transportation of products, cyber attacks, or severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena (such as drought, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, etc.) could result in an unplanned event that could be significant in scale and could negatively impact operations, neighbors or the public at large, which could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations.Major hurricanes have caused significant disruption in Dow's operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the region, and the supply of certain raw materials, which had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some of Dow's products. Due to the Company's substantial presence on the U.S. Gulf Coast, similar severe weather conditions or other natural phenomena in the future could negatively affect Dow's results of operations.Cyber Vulnerability: The risk of loss of the Company’s intellectual property, trade secrets or other sensitive business information or disruption of operations could negatively impact the Company’s financial results.Cyber attacks or security breaches could compromise confidential, business critical information, cause a disruption in the Company’s operations or harm the Company's reputation. The Company has attractive information assets, including intellectual property, trade secrets and other sensitive, business critical information. While the Company has a comprehensive cyber security program that is continuously reviewed, maintained and upgraded, a significant cyber attack could result in the loss of critical business information and/or could negatively impact operations, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial results.Company Strategy: Implementing certain elements of the Company's strategy could negatively impact the Company's financial results.The Company currently has manufacturing operations, sales and marketing activities, joint ventures, as well as proposed and existing projects of varying size in emerging geographies. Activities in these geographies are accompanied by uncertainty and risks including: navigating different government regulatory environments; relationships with new, local partners; project funding commitments and guarantees; expropriation, military actions, war, terrorism and political instability; sabotage; uninsurable risks; suppliers not performing as expected resulting in increased risk of extended project timelines; and determining raw material supply and other details regarding product movement. If the manufacturing operations, sales and marketing activities, and/or implementation of these projects is not successful, it could adversely affect the Company's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.The Company has also announced a number of portfolio management actions as part of Dow's ongoing transformation, including a proposed all-stock merger of equals transaction with E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company as well as transactions to restructure the Company's ownership interest in certain joint ventures. If the execution or implementation of these transactions is not successful, it could adversely impact the Company's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.Goodwill: An impairment of goodwill could negatively impact the Company's financial results. At least annually, the Company assesses goodwill for impairment. If an initial qualitative assessment identifies that it is more likely than not that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, additional quantitative testing is performed. The Company may also elect to skip the qualitative testing and proceed directly to quantitative testing. If the quantitative testing indicates that goodwill is impaired, the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value with a charge against earnings. Since the Company utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology to calculate the fair value of its reporting units, continued weak demand for a specific product line or business could result in an impairment. Accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits: Increased obligations and expenses related to the Company's defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans could negatively affect Dow's financial condition and results of operations.The Company has defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans (the “plans”) in the United States and a number of other countries. The assets of the Company's funded plans are primarily invested in fixed income and equity securities of U.S. and foreign issuers. Changes in the market value of plan assets, investment returns, discount rates, mortality rates, regulations and the rate of increase in compensation levels may affect the funded status of the Company's plans and could cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status of the plans. A significant increase in the Company's obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the Company's financial condition.22Table of ContentsThe Dow Chemical Company and SubsidiariesPART I, Item 1B