Item 1A. Risk Factors.      



The factors described below represent the Company's principal risks. Except as otherwise indicated, these factors may or may not occur and the Company is not in
a position to express a view on the likelihood of any such factor occurring. Other factors may exist that the Company does not consider to be significant based on information that is currently
available or that the Company is not currently able to anticipate. 

Rising and volatile purchased feedstock and energy costs increase Dow's operating costs and add variability to earnings.  

During 2005, purchased feedstock and energy costs continued to rise sharply, adding an additional $4 billion of costs compared with 2004 and accounting for
47 percent of the Company's total production costs and operating expenses in 2005, up from 43 percent in 2004 and 36 percent in 2003. In 2006, purchased feedstock and energy costs
are expected to remain high and volatile, resulting in further increases in costs. The Company uses its feedstock flexibility and financial and physical hedging programs to reduce the negative effect
of increases in these costs. However, the Company is not always able to immediately raise prices and, ultimately, its ability to pass on underlying cost increases is greatly dependent on market
conditions. As a result, increases in these costs could negatively impact the Company's results of operations. 

The earnings generated by the Company's basic chemical and basic plastic products will vary from period to period based in part on the balance of supply relative to demand
within the industry.  

The balance of supply relative to demand within the industry may be significantly impacted by the addition of new capacity. For basic commodities, capacity is generally added
in large increments as world-scale facilities are built; this may disrupt industry balances and result in downward pressure on prices due to the increase in supply, which could negatively impact the
Company's results of operations 

The businesses of many of Dow's customers are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions.  

An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which Dow sells its products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume and
results of operations. 

If key suppliers are unable to provide the raw materials required for production, Dow may not be able to obtain the raw materials from other sources on as favorable terms.  


The Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including liquefied petroleum gases, crude oil, naphtha, natural gas and condensate. The Company also purchases electric power,
benzene, ethylene, propylene and styrene to supplement internal production, and other raw materials. During 2005, the Company experienced temporary supply disruptions related to two major hurricanes
on the U.S. Gulf Coast. If the Company's key suppliers are unable to provide the raw materials required for production, it could have a negative impact on Dow's results of operations. 

The Company experiences substantial competition in each of the operating segments and geographic areas in which it operates.  

Historically, the chemical industry has operated in a competitive environment, and that environment is expected to continue. In addition to other chemical companies, the
chemical divisions of major international oil companies provide substantial competition. Dow competes worldwide on the basis of quality, price and customer service. Increased levels of competition
could result in lower prices or lower sales volume, which would have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. 

Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal
sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability.  

The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and the
generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. At December 31, 2005, the Company had accrued obligations of
$339 million for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $41 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is management's best estimate of the costs for
remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to
twice that amount. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to 

10




 

evolving
regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations
could inhibit or interrupt the Company's operations, or require modifications to its facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters may result in significant unanticipated
costs or liabilities. 

The Company is party to a number of claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to commercial matters, including product liability,
governmental regulation and other actions.  

Certain of the claims and lawsuits facing the Company purport to be class actions and seek damages in very large amounts. All such claims are being contested. With the
exception of the possible effect of the asbestos-related liability of Union Carbide, described below, it is the opinion of the Company's management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of
all such claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 

       Union
Carbide is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. Union Carbide's asbestos-related
liability for pending and future claims was $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005. Union Carbide's receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $535 million at
December 31, 2005. In addition, Union Carbide had receivables for insurance recoveries of $400 million at December 31, 2005, for defense and resolution costs. It is the opinion of
the Company's management that it is reasonably possible that the cost of Union Carbide disposing of its asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on
the Company's results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of the Company. 

Local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the
transportation of hazardous chemicals.  

Growing public and political attention has been placed on protecting critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Terrorist attacks and
natural disasters have increased concern regarding the security of chemical production and distribution. In addition, local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could
lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs and interruptions in normal
business operations. 


Failure to develop new products could make the Company less competitive.  

The Company is engaged in a continuous program of basic and applied research to develop new products and processes, to improve and refine existing products and processes and to
develop new applications for existing products. Failure to develop new products could make the Company less competitive. 

Failure to protect the Company's intellectual property could negatively affect its future performance and growth.  

The Company continually applies for and obtains U.S. and foreign patents to protect the results of its research for use in operations and licensing. Dow is also party to a
substantial number of patent licenses and other technology agreements. The Company relies on patents and confidentiality agreements to protect its intellectual property. Failure to protect this
intellectual property could negatively affect the Company's future performance and growth. 

Weather-related matters could impact the Company's results of operations.  

Two major hurricanes caused significant disruption in Dow's operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast and logistics across the region during the third quarter of 2005. As a
consequence, the Company's operating rate was reduced by approximately 4 percentage points during the third quarter. Lingering effects of the hurricanes on logistics and certain raw material supplies
had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some of Dow's products in the fourth quarter of 2005. If similar weather-related matters occur in the future, it could negatively affect Dow's results of
operations, due to the Company's substantial presence on the U.S. Gulf Coast. 

The Company's business operations give rise to market risk exposure.  

The Company's global business operations give rise to market risk exposure related to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and other market
factors such as equity prices. To manage such risks, Dow enters into hedging transactions, pursuant to established guidelines and policies. If Dow fails to effectively manage such risks, it could have
a negative impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 

11




 
<A
NAME="de1199_part_#160;i_#44;_#160;item_#160;1._#160;business._2"> 
 
  The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries  PART I, Item 1B