Item 1A. Risk
Factors, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,
and Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
    
    Protection
of the Environment
    Matters
pertaining to the environment are discussed in Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Notes A and K
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
    
    Employees
    Personnel
count was 46,102 at December 31, 2008; 45,856 at December 31, 2007;
and 42,578 at December 31, 2006. Headcount increased in 2008 from year-end
2007 primarily due to recent acquisitions. Headcount is expected to decline due
to actions announced in the fourth quarter of 2008 to eliminate approximately
5,000 jobs (including planned divestitures). During 2007, headcount was
impacted by the addition of research and development employees in India and
China in support of the Company’s growth initiatives; the addition of
approximately 110 employees with the second quarter acquisition of
Hyperlast Limited; and the addition of approximately 1,700 employees with the
second quarter acquisition of Wolff Walsrode AG.
    
    Other
Activities
    Dow
engages in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business
primarily through its Liana Limited subsidiaries.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    The
Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries
    PART I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.
     

      
        
      
    
    
    The
factors described below represent the Company’s principal risks. Except as
otherwise indicated, these factors may or may not occur and the Company is not
in a position to express a view on the likelihood of any such factor occurring.
Other factors may exist that the Company does not consider significant based on
information that is currently available or that the Company is not currently
able to anticipate.
    
    Volatility
in purchased feedstock and energy costs impacts Dow’s operating costs and adds
variability to earnings.
    During
2008, purchased feedstock and energy costs were higher overall than in 2007,
adding an additional $5.9 billion of costs compared with 2007 and
accounting for 48 percent of the Company’s total production costs and
operating expenses in 2008, down from 49 percent in 2007 and 2006.
Purchased feedstock and energy costs are expected to remain volatile throughout
2009. The Company uses its feedstock flexibility and financial and physical
hedging programs to lower overall feedstock costs. However, when these costs
increase, the Company is not always able to immediately raise selling prices
and, ultimately, its ability to pass on underlying cost increases is greatly
dependent on market conditions. As a result, increases in these costs could
negatively impact the Company’s results of operations.
    
    The Company is party to a number of
claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to
commercial matters, including product liability, governmental regulation and
other actions.
    Certain
of the claims and lawsuits facing the Company purport to be class actions and
seek damages in very large amounts. All such claims are being contested. With
the exception of the possible effect of the asbestos-related liability of Union
Carbide Corporation (“Union Carbide”) and the ongoing litigation with Rohm and
Haas Company (“Rohm and Haas”), described below, it is the opinion of the
Company’s management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of all
such claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.
     
    Union
Carbide is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits
filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. At
December 31, 2008, Union Carbide’s asbestos-related liability for pending
and future claims was $934 million and its receivable for insurance
recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $403 million. At
December 31, 2008, Union Carbide also had receivables of $272 million
for insurance recoveries for defense and resolution costs. It is the opinion of
the Company’s management that it is reasonably possible that the cost of Union
Carbide disposing of its asbestos-related claims, including future defense
costs, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of
operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated
financial position of the Company.
     
    The
Company is involved in a lawsuit, filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of
Delaware by Rohm and Haas for specific performance related to the July 10,
2008 agreement to acquire Rohm and Haas for $78 per share. The lawsuit was
filed on January 26, 2009 following notification to Rohm and Haas that the
Company would not close the proposed acquisition on or before January 27,
2009. It is the opinion of the Company’s management that it is reasonably
possible that the ultimate resolution of the litigation could have a material
adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
    
    A
downgrade of the Company’s credit rating could have a negative impact on the
Company’s ability to access credit markets.
    The
Company’s credit rating is investment grade. The Company’s long-term credit
ratings were downgraded on December 29, 2008 by Moody’s from A3 to Baa1
with outlook under review for possible downgrade and by Standard & Poor’s
from A- to BBB with credit watch negative. The Company’s short-term credit
rating is A2/P2 negative/negative. If the Company’s credit rating is further
downgraded, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to access
credit markets and could increase borrowing costs.
    
    Volatility
and disruption of financial markets could affect access to credit.
    The
current difficult economic market environment is causing contraction in the
availability of credit in the marketplace. This could potentially reduce the
sources of liquidity for the Company.
    
    The
value of investments are influenced by economic and market
conditions.
    The
current economic environment is negatively impacting the fair value of pension
and insurance assets, which could trigger increased future funding requirements
of the pension trusts and could result in additional other-than-temporary
impairment losses for certain insurance assets.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Adverse
conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets could
continue to negatively impact Dow’s customers and therefore Dow’s results of
operations.
    An
economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which Dow sells its
products could further reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease
in sales volume that could have a negative impact on Dow’s results of
operations. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit
customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and could
result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on Dow’s
results of operations.
    
    The
earnings generated by the Company’s basic chemical and basic plastic products
will vary from period to period based in part on the balance of supply relative
to demand within the industry.
    The
balance of supply relative to demand within the industry may be significantly
impacted by the addition of new capacity. For basic commodities, capacity is
generally added in large increments as world-scale facilities are built. This
may disrupt industry balances and result in downward pressure on prices due to
the increase in supply, which could negatively impact the Company’s results of
operations.
    
    If
key suppliers are unable to provide the raw materials required for production,
Dow may not be able to obtain the raw materials from other sources on as
favorable terms.
    The
Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including liquefied petroleum gases,
crude oil, naphtha, natural gas and condensate. The Company also purchases
electric power, benzene, ethylene, propylene and styrene to supplement internal
production, and other raw materials. If the Company’s key suppliers are unable
to provide the raw materials required for production, it could have a negative
impact on Dow’s results of operations. For example, during 2005 and again in the
third quarter of 2008, the Company experienced temporary supply disruptions
related to major hurricanes on the U.S. Gulf Coast. In addition, volatility and
disruption of financial markets could limit suppliers’ ability to obtain
adequate financing to maintain operations, which could have a negative impact on
Dow’s results of operations.
    
    The
Company experiences substantial competition in each of the operating segments
and geographic areas in which it operates.
    Historically,
the chemical industry has operated in a competitive environment, and that
environment is expected to continue. In addition to other chemical companies,
the chemical divisions of major international oil companies provide substantial
competition. Dow competes worldwide on the basis of quality, price and customer
service. Increased levels of competition could result in lower prices or lower
sales volume, which would have a negative impact on the Company’s results of
operations.
    
    Actual
or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result
in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or
criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint
and several liability.
    The
Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws,
regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the
environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment,
disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. At
December 31, 2008, the Company had accrued obligations of $312 million
for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $22 million
for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is management’s best estimate of
the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters
for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with
respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately twice that
amount. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or
safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend
on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which
impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could
inhibit or interrupt the Company’s operations, or require modifications to its
facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters may
result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities.
    
    Local,
state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to
new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the
transportation of hazardous chemicals.
    Growing
public and political attention has been placed on protecting critical
infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats.
Terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concern regarding the
security of chemical production and distribution. In addition, local, state and
federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new
regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the
transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating
costs and interruptions in normal business operations.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          11
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Failure
to develop new products could make the Company less competitive.
    The
Company is engaged in a continuous program of basic and applied research to
develop new products and processes, to improve and refine existing products and
processes, and to develop new applications for existing products. Failure to
develop new products could make the Company less competitive.
    
    Failure
to protect the Company’s intellectual property could negatively affect its
future performance and growth.
    The
Company continually applies for and obtains U.S. and foreign patents to protect
the results of its research for use in operations and licensing. Dow is also
party to a substantial number of patent licenses and other technology
agreements. The Company relies on patents, confidentiality agreements and
internal security measures to protect its intellectual property. Failure to
protect this intellectual property could negatively affect the Company’s future
performance and growth.
    
    Weather-related
matters could impact the Company’s results of operations.
    In
2005 and again in the third quarter of 2008, major hurricanes caused significant
disruption in Dow’s operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the
region and the supply of certain raw materials, which had an adverse impact on
volume and cost for some of Dow’s products. If similar weather-related matters
occur in the future, it could negatively affect Dow’s results of operations, due
to the Company’s substantial presence on the U.S. Gulf Coast.
    
    The Company’s global business
operations give rise to market risk exposure.
    The
Company’s global business operations give rise to market risk exposure related
to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and other
market factors such as equity prices. To manage such risks, Dow enters into
hedging transactions, pursuant to established guidelines and policies. If Dow
fails to effectively manage such risks, it could have a negative impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    The
Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries
    PART I, Item 1B