Item 1A. Risk Factors.
        
          
        
        
          
            
          
        
      
    
     
    The
factors described below represent the Company’s principal risks.
    
    The
Company operates in a global, competitive environment in each of its operating
segments and geographic areas.
    The
Company sells its broad range of products and services in a competitive, global
environment. Dow competes worldwide on the basis of quality, price, technology
and customer service. Increased levels of competition could result in lower
prices or lower sales volume, which would have a negative impact on the
Company’s results of operations.
    
    The
earnings generated by the Company’s basic chemical and basic plastic products
vary from period to period based in part on the balance of supply relative to
demand within the industry.
    The
balance of supply relative to demand within the industry may be significantly
impacted by the addition of new capacity. For basic commodities, capacity is
generally added in large increments as world-scale facilities are built. This
may disrupt industry balances and result in downward pressure on prices due to
the increase in supply, which could negatively impact the Company’s results of
operations.
    
    The Company’s global business
operations give rise to market risk exposure.
    The
Company’s global business operations give rise to market risk exposure related
to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and other
market factors such as equity prices. To manage such risks, Dow enters into
hedging transactions, pursuant to established guidelines and policies. If Dow
fails to effectively manage such risks, it could have a negative impact on the
Company’s results of operations.
    
    Volatility
in purchased feedstock and energy costs impacts Dow’s operating costs and adds
variability to earnings.
    Purchased
feedstock and energy costs account for a substantial portion of the Company’s
total production costs and operating expenses. The Company uses its feedstock
flexibility and financial and physical hedging programs to lower overall
feedstock costs. However, when these costs increase, the Company is not always
able to immediately raise selling prices and, ultimately, the ability to pass on
underlying cost increases is greatly dependent on market conditions. Conversely,
when these costs decline, selling prices decline as well. As a result,
volatility in these costs could negatively impact the Company’s results of
operations.
    
    The
Company is party to a number of claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal
course of business with respect to commercial matters, including product
liability, governmental regulation and other actions.
    Certain
of the claims and lawsuits facing the Company purport to be class actions and
seek damages in very large amounts. All such claims are being contested. With
the exception of the possible effect of the asbestos-related liability of Union
Carbide Corporation (“Union Carbide”), described below, it is the opinion of the
Company’s management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of all
such claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.
    
    Union
Carbide is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits
filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. At
December 31, 2009, Union Carbide’s asbestos-related liability for pending
and future claims was $839 million ($934 million at December 31,
2008) and its receivable for insurance recoveries related to the asbestos
liability was $84 million ($403 million at December 31, 2008). At
December 31, 2009, Union Carbide also had receivables of $448 million
($272 million at December 31, 2008) for insurance recoveries for
defense and resolution costs. It is the opinion of the Company’s management that
it is reasonably possible that the cost of Union Carbide disposing of its
asbestos-related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material
adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows for a
particular period and on the consolidated financial position of the
Company.
    
    If
key suppliers are unable to provide the raw materials required for production,
Dow may not be able to obtain the raw materials from other sources and on as
favorable terms.
    The
Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials, including liquefied petroleum
gases, crude oil, naphtha, natural gas and condensate. The Company also
purchases electric power, benzene, ethylene, propylene and styrene to supplement
internal production, as well as other raw materials. If the Company’s key
suppliers are unable to provide the raw materials required for production, it
could have a negative impact on Dow’s results of operations. For example, in
2005 and 2008, the Company experienced temporary supply disruptions related to
major hurricanes on the U.S. Gulf Coast. In addition, volatility and disruption
of financial markets could limit suppliers’ ability to obtain adequate financing
to maintain operations, which could have a negative impact on Dow’s results of
operations.
    
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          13
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
     
    Adverse
conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets could
negatively impact Dow’s customers and therefore Dow’s results of
operations.
    A
continuation of the economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in
which Dow sells its products could reduce demand for these products and result
in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on Dow’s results
of operations. In addition, volatility and disruption of financial markets could
limit customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations,
which could result in a decrease in sales volume and have a negative impact on
Dow’s results of operations.
    
    Weather-related
matters could impact the Company’s results of operations.
    In
2005 and 2008, major hurricanes caused significant disruption in Dow’s
operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the region and the supply of
certain raw materials, which had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some
of Dow’s products. If similar weather-related matters occur in the future, it
could negatively affect Dow’s results of operations, due to the Company’s
substantial presence on the U.S. Gulf Coast.
    
    Actual or alleged violations of
environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or
prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as
well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several
liability.
    The
Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws,
regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the
environment, and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment,
disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. At
December 31, 2009, the Company had accrued obligations of $619 million
($312 million at December 31, 2008) for environmental remediation and
restoration costs, including $80 million ($22 million at
December 31, 2008) for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is
management’s best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with
respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities,
although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range
up to approximately twice that amount. Costs and capital expenditures relating
to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory
requirements and depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of
specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in
environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt the Company’s operations,
or require modifications to its facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health
or safety regulatory matters could result in significant unanticipated costs or
liabilities.
    
    Local,
state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to
new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the
transportation of hazardous chemicals.
    Growing
public and political attention has been placed on protecting critical
infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats.
International terrorism, natural disasters and political unrest in some areas of
the world have increased concern regarding the security of chemical production
and distribution. In addition, local, state and federal governments have begun a
regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of
chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which
could result in higher operating costs and interruptions in normal business
operations.
    
    Increased
concerns regarding the safety of chemicals in commerce and their potential
impact on the environment have resulted in more restrictive regulations and
could lead to additional regulations in the future.
    Concerns
regarding the safety of chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on the
environment reflect a growing trend in societal demands for increasing levels of
product safety and environmental protection. These concerns could manifest
themselves in stockholder proposals, preferred purchasing and continued pressure
for more stringent regulatory intervention. In addition, these concerns could
influence public perceptions, the viability of the Company’s products, the
Company’s reputation, the cost to comply with regulations, and the ability to
attract and retain employees, which could have a negative impact on the
Company’s results of operations.
    
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          14
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    The
value of investments is influenced by economic and market conditions, which
could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of
operations.
    The
economic environment impacts the fair value of pension and insurance assets,
which could trigger increased future funding requirements of the pension trusts
and could result in additional other-than-temporary impairment losses for
certain insurance assets.
    
    Volatility
and disruption of financial markets could affect access to credit.
    The
economic environment can cause contraction in the availability of credit in the
marketplace. This could reduce sources of liquidity for the
Company.
    
    A
downgrade of the Company’s credit rating could have a negative impact on the
Company’s ability to access credit markets.
    The
Company’s credit rating is currently investment grade. The Company’s long-term
and short-term credit ratings were downgraded by Fitch, Standard & Poor’s
and Moody’s in the first half of 2009. If the Company’s credit ratings are
further downgraded, borrowing costs will increase on certain indebtedness, and
it could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to access credit
markets.
    
    Increased
costs related to the financing of the Rohm and Haas acquisition could reduce the
Company’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or
fund capital expenditures or working capital needs.
    In
2009, the Company issued common equity securities, preferred equity securities
and debt securities to partially finance the $15.7 billion acquisition of
Rohm and Haas Company (“Rohm and Haas”) on April 1, 2009. This financing
requires additional interest and dividend payments and thus may reduce the
Company’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or
fund capital expenditure or working capital needs. This may also increase the
Company’s vulnerability to adverse economic conditions.
    
    Failure
to effectively integrate Rohm and Haas could adversely impact the Company’s
financial condition and results of operations.
    The
April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas was a significant acquisition
and a significant step in the implementation of Dow’s strategy. While the
Company has acquired businesses in the past, the magnitude of the integration of
this acquisition could present significant challenges and costs, especially
given the effects of the current global economic environment. If the integration
of Rohm and Haas is not completed as planned, the Company may not realize the
benefits, such as cost and growth synergies, anticipated from the acquisition
and the costs of achieving those benefits may be higher than, and the timing
different from, the Company’s current expectations. Realizing the benefits of
the acquisition requires the successful integration of some or all of the sales
and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, engineering, finance, information
technology systems and administrative operations of Rohm and Haas with those of
Dow. This will require substantial attention from the management of the combined
company, which may decrease the time management devotes to normal and customary
operations. In addition, the integration and implementation activities could
result in higher expenses and/or the use of more cash or other financial
resources than expected. If the integration of Rohm and Haas is not successfully
executed, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and
results of operations.
    
    An
impairment of goodwill would negatively impact the Company’s financial
results.
    The
April 1, 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas increased the Company’s goodwill
by $9.6 billion. At least annually, the Company performs an impairment test
for goodwill. When tested, if the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the
estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred and the carrying
value of goodwill is written down to fair value with a charge against earnings.
Accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion
of goodwill recorded in connection with the acquisition could negatively impact
the Company’s results of operations.
    
    Failure
to execute certain asset divestitures could adversely affect Dow’s financial
condition and results of operations.
    The
Company is focused on reducing its indebtedness and is pursuing a strategy of
divesting certain assets to achieve that goal. If the Company is unable to
successfully sell such assets, it could limit Dow’s ability to reduce
indebtedness and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and
results of operations.
    
    
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          15
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
     
    
      
        The
Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries
        PART
I, Item 1B