Item 1A
    under “Risks Related to Our Business” and elsewhere in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    These risk factors may not be exhaustive as we operate in a
    continually changing business environment with new risks
    emerging from time to time that we are unable to predict or that
    we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on
    our business. You should carefully read this report in its
    entirety as it contains important information about our business
    and the risks we face.


 


    Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
    uncertainties, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the highly competitive markets in which we operate and our
    ability to compete with companies that have significant
    financial resources;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in consumer preferences, trends and health concerns;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintaining our relationships with our large retail customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    dependence on third party bottling and distribution companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    recession, financial and credit market disruptions and other
    economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    future impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to service a substantial amount of debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to comply with, or changes in, governmental
    regulations in the countries in which we operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintaining our relationships with our allied brands;




 



     
        • 

    
    litigation claims or legal proceedings against us;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of employee benefits;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in cost of materials or supplies used in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of materials used in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    substantial disruption at our manufacturing or distribution
    facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need for substantial investment and restructuring at our
    production, distribution and other facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    strikes or work stoppages;




 



     
        • 

    
    our products meeting health and safety standards or
    contamination of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    infringement of our intellectual property rights by third
    parties, intellectual property claims against us or adverse
    events regarding licensed intellectual property;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to retain or recruit qualified personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions to our information systems and third-party service
    providers;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather and climate changes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other factors discussed in Item 1A under “Risks
    Related to Our Business” and elsewhere in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.







    
    ii



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS





 



    Our
    Company


 


    Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. is a leading integrated brand
    owner, manufacturer and distributor of non-alcoholic beverages
    in the United States, Canada and Mexico with a diverse portfolio
    of flavored (non-cola) carbonated soft drinks (“CSDs”)
    and non-carbonated beverages (“NCBs”), including
    ready-to-drink
    teas, juices, juice drinks and mixers. We have some of the most
    recognized beverage brands in North America, with significant
    consumer awareness levels and long histories that evoke strong
    emotional connections with consumers. References in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    to “we”, “our”, “us”,
    “DPS” or “the Company” refer to Dr Pepper
    Snapple Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context
    requires otherwise.


 


    The following table provides highlights about our company:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    


 


    •


 


    #1 flavored CSD company in the United States




 



    •



 


    Approximately 75% of our volume from brands that are
    either #1 or #2 in their category




 



    •



 


    #3 North American liquid refreshment beverage business




 



    •



 


    $5.5 billion of net sales in 2009 from the United States
    (90%), Canada (4%) and Mexico and the Caribbean (6%)








 



    History
    of Our Business


 


    We have built our business over the last three decades through a
    series of strategic acquisitions. In the 1980’s through the
    mid-1990’s, we began building on our then existing
    Schweppes business by adding brands such as Mott’s, Canada
    Dry and A&W and a license for Sunkist soda. We also
    acquired the Peñafiel business in Mexico. In 1995, we
    acquired Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc., having previously made
    minority investments in the company. In 1999, we acquired a 40%
    interest in Dr Pepper/Seven Up Bottling Group, Inc.,
    (“DPSUBG”), which was then our largest independent
    bottler, and increased our interest to 45% in 2005. In 2000, we
    acquired Snapple and other brands, significantly increasing our
    share of the United States NCB market segment. In 2003, we
    created Cadbury Schweppes Americas Beverages by integrating the
    way we managed our four North American businesses (Mott’s,
    Snapple, Dr Pepper/Seven Up and Mexico). During 2006 and 2007,
    we acquired the remaining 55% of DPSUBG and several smaller
    bottlers and integrated them into our Packaged Beverages
    segment, thereby expanding our geographic coverage.


 



    Separation
    from Cadbury and Formation of Our Company


 


    In 2008, Cadbury Schweppes plc (“Cadbury Schweppes”)
    separated its beverage business in the United States, Canada,
    Mexico and the Caribbean (the “Americas Beverages
    business”) from its global confectionery business by
    contributing the subsidiaries that operated its Americas
    Beverages business to us. The separation involved a number of
    steps, and as a result of these steps:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    On May 1, 2008, Cadbury plc (“Cadbury plc”)
    became the parent company of Cadbury Schweppes. Cadbury plc and
    Cadbury Schweppes are hereafter collectively referred to as
    “Cadbury” unless otherwise indicated.




 



     
        • 

    
    On May 7, 2008, Cadbury plc transferred its Americas
    Beverages business to us and we became an independent
    publicly-traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange
    under the symbol “DPS”. In return for the transfer of
    the Americas Beverages business, we distributed our common stock
    to Cadbury plc shareholders. As of the date of distribution, a
    total of 800 million shares of our common stock, par value
    $0.01 per share, and 15 million shares of our undesignated
    preferred stock were authorized. On the date of distribution,
    253.7 million shares of our common stock were issued and
    outstanding and no shares of preferred stock were issued.







    
    1



Table of Contents




 


    We were incorporated in Delaware on October 24, 2007. Prior
    to separation, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. did not have any
    operations. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to our Audited
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.


 



    Products
    and Distribution


 


    We are a leading integrated brand owner, manufacturer and
    distributor of non-alcoholic beverages in the United States,
    Mexico and Canada and we also distribute our products in the
    Caribbean. In 2009, 90% of our net sales were generated in the
    United States, 4% in Canada and 6% in Mexico and the Caribbean.
    We sold 1.6 billion equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases in
    2009. The following table provides highlights about our key
    brands:


 



    CSDs


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    


 


    •


 


    #1 in its flavor category and #2 overall flavored CSD in the
    United States




 



    •



 


    Distinguished by its unique blend of 23 flavors and loyal
    consumer following




 



    •



 


    Flavors include regular, diet and cherry




 



    •



 


    Oldest major soft drink in the United States, introduced in 1885








 



    Our
    Core 4 brands


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    


 


    •


 


    #1 orange CSD in the United States




 



    •



 


    Flavors include orange, diet and other fruits




 



    •



 


    Licensed to us as a CSD by the Sunkist Growers Association since
    1986




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #2 lemon-lime CSD in the United States




 



    •



 


    Flavors include regular, diet and cherry antioxidant




 



    •



 


    The original “Un-Cola,” created in 1929




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 root beer in the United States




 



    •



 


    Flavors include regular, diet and cream soda




 



    •



 


    A classic all-American beverage first sold at a veteran’s
    parade in 1919




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 ginger ale in the United States and Canada




 



    •



 


    Brand includes club soda, tonic, green tea ginger ale and other
    mixers




 



    •



 


    Created in Toronto, Canada in 1904 and introduced in the United
    States in 1919








 



    Other
    CSD brands


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    


 


    •


 


    #2 orange CSD in the United States




 



    •



 


    Flavors include orange, diet and other fruits




 



    •



 


    Brand began as the all-natural orange flavor drink in 1906






    
    2



Table of Contents








     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    


 


    •


 


    #2 ginger ale in the United States and Canada




 



    •



 


    Brand includes club soda, tonic and other mixers




 



    •



 


    First carbonated beverage in the world, invented in 1783




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 grapefruit CSD in the United States and a leading grapefruit
    CSD in Mexico




 



    •



 


    Founded in 1938




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 carbonated mineral water brand in Mexico




 



    •



 


    Brand includes Flavors, Twist and Naturel




 



    •



 


    Mexico’s oldest mineral water








 



    NCBs


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    


 


    •


 


    A leading ready-to-drink tea in the United States




 



    •



 


    A full range of tea products including premium, super premium
    and value teas




 



    •



 


    Brand also includes premium juices and juice drinks




 



    •



 


    Founded in Brooklyn, New York in 1972




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 apple juice and #1 apple sauce brand in the United States




 



    •



 


    Juice products include apple and other fruit juices, Mott’s
    Plus and Mott’s for Tots




 



    •



 


    Apple sauce products include regular, unsweetened, flavored and
    organic




 



    •



 


    Brand began as a line of apple cider and vinegar offerings in
    1842




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 fruit punch brand in the United States




 



    •



 


    Brand includes a variety of fruit flavored and reduced calorie
    juice drinks




 



    •



 


    Developed originally as an ice cream topping known as
    “Leo’s Hawaiian Punch” in 1934




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    A leading spicy tomato juice brand in the United States, Canada
    and Mexico




 



    •



 


    Key ingredient in Canada’s popular cocktail, the Bloody
    Caesar




 



    •



 


    Created in 1969




 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 portfolio of mixer brands in the United States




 



    •



 


    #1 Bloody Mary brand (Mr & Mrs T) in the United States




 



    •



 


    Leading mixers (Margaritaville and Rose’s) in their flavor
    categories








 










    The market and industry data in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    is from independent industry sources, including The Nielsen
    Company and Beverage Digest. See “Market and Industry
    Data” below for further information.


 


    The Sunkist soda, Rose’s and Margaritaville logos are
    registered trademarks of Sunkist Growers, Inc., Cadbury Ireland
    Limited and Margaritaville Enterprises, LLC, respectively, in
    each case used by us under license. All other logos in the table
    above are registered trademarks of DPS or its subsidiaries.




    3



Table of Contents




 


    In the CSD market in the United States and Canada, we
    participate primarily in the flavored CSD category. Our key
    brands are Dr Pepper, 7UP, Sunkist soda, A&W, Canada Dry
    and Crush, and we also sell regional and smaller niche brands.
    In the CSD market we are primarily a manufacturer of beverage
    concentrates and fountain syrups. Beverage concentrates are
    highly concentrated proprietary flavors used to make syrup or
    finished beverages. We manufacture beverage concentrates that
    are used by our own Packaged Beverages and Latin America
    Beverages segments, as well as sold to third party bottling
    companies. According to The Nielsen Company, we had a 21.0%
    share of the United States CSD market in 2009 (measured by
    retail sales), which increased from 19.7% in 2008. We also
    manufacture fountain syrup that we sell to the foodservice
    industry directly, through bottlers or through third parties.


 


    In the NCB market segment in the United States, we participate
    primarily in the
    ready-to-drink
    tea, juice, juice drinks and mixer categories. Our key NCB
    brands are Snapple, Mott’s, Hawaiian Punch and Clamato, and
    we also sell regional and smaller niche brands. We manufacture
    most of our NCBs as
    ready-to-drink
    beverages and distribute them through our own distribution
    network and through third parties or direct to our
    customers’ warehouses. In addition to NCB beverages, we
    also manufacture Mott’s apple sauce as a finished product.


 


    In Mexico and the Caribbean, we participate primarily in the
    carbonated mineral water, flavored CSD, bottled water and
    vegetable juice categories. Our key brands in Mexico include
    Peñafiel, Squirt, Clamato and Aguafiel. In Mexico, we
    manufacture and sell our brands through both our own
    manufacturing and distribution operations and third party
    bottlers. In the Caribbean, we distribute our products solely
    through third party distributors and bottlers.


 


    In 2009, we manufactured
    and/or
    distributed approximately 44% of our total products sold in the
    United States (as measured by volume). In addition, our
    businesses manufacture and distribute a variety of brands owned
    by third parties in specified licensed geographic territories.


 



    Our
    Strengths


 


    The key strengths of our business are:


 


    Strong portfolio of leading, consumer-preferred
    brands.  We own a diverse portfolio of well-known
    CSD and NCB brands. Many of our brands enjoy high levels of
    consumer awareness, preference and loyalty rooted in their rich
    heritage, which drive their market positions. Our diverse
    portfolio provides our bottlers, distributors and retailers with
    a wide variety of products and provides us with a platform for
    growth and profitability. We are the #1 flavored CSD
    company in the United States. In addition, we are the only major
    beverage concentrate company with
    year-over-year
    market share growth in the CSD market in each of the last five
    years. Our largest brand, Dr Pepper, is the #2 flavored CSD
    in the United States, according to The Nielsen Company, and our
    Snapple brand is a leading
    ready-to-drink
    tea. Overall, in 2009, approximately 75% of our volume was
    generated by brands that hold either the #1 or #2
    position in their category. The strength of our key brands has
    allowed us to launch innovations and brand extensions such as Dr
    Pepper Cherry, 7UP Cherry Antioxidant, Canada Dry Green Tea
    Ginger Ale, Mott’s for Tots and Snapple value teas.


 


    Integrated business model.  We believe our
    brand ownership, manufacturing and distribution are more
    integrated than the United States operations of our principal
    competitors and that this differentiation provides us with a
    competitive advantage. Our integrated business model strengthens
    our
    route-to-market
    by creating a third consolidated bottling system in addition to
    the
    Coca-Cola
    Company
    (“Coca-Cola”)
    and PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”) affiliated systems. Our
    manufacturing and distribution system enables us to improve
    focus on our brands, especially certain of our brands such as
    7UP, Sunkist soda, A&W and Snapple, which do not have a
    large presence in the
    Coca-Cola-affiliated
    and PepsiCo-affiliated bottler systems. Our integrated business
    model also provides opportunities for net sales and profit
    growth through the alignment of the economic interests of our
    brand ownership and our manufacturing and distribution
    businesses. For example, we can focus on maximizing
    profitability for our company as a whole rather than focusing on
    profitability generated from either the sale of beverage
    concentrates or the bottling and distribution of our products.
    Additionally, our integrated business model enables us to be
    more flexible and responsive to the changing needs of our large
    retail customers by coordinating sales, service, distribution,
    promotions and product launches and allows us to more fully
    leverage our scale and reduce costs by creating greater
    geographic manufacturing and distribution coverage.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    Strong customer relationships.  Our brands have
    enjoyed long-standing relationships with many of our top
    customers. We sell our products to a wide range of customers,
    from bottlers and distributors to national retailers, large
    foodservice and convenience store customers. We have strong
    relationships with some of the largest bottlers and
    distributors, including those affiliated with
    Coca-Cola
    and PepsiCo, some of the largest and most important retailers,
    including Wal-Mart, Safeway, Kroger and Target, some of the
    largest food service customers, including McDonald’s, Yum!
    Brands, Jack in the Box and Burger King, and convenience store
    customers, including 7-Eleven. Our portfolio of strong brands,
    operational scale and experience across beverage segments has
    enabled us to maintain strong relationships with our customers.


 


    Attractive positioning within a large and profitable
    market.  We hold the #1 position in the
    United States flavored CSD beverage markets by volume according
    to Beverage Digest. We are also a leader in Canada and Mexico
    beverage markets. We believe that these markets are
    well-positioned to benefit from emerging consumer trends such as
    the need for convenience and the demand for products with health
    and wellness benefits. Our portfolio of products is biased
    toward flavored CSDs, which continue to gain market share versus
    cola CSDs, but also focuses on emerging categories such as teas,
    energy drinks and juices.


 


    Broad geographic manufacturing and distribution
    coverage.  As of December 31, 2009, we had 19
    manufacturing facilities and 176 distribution centers in the
    United States, as well as four manufacturing facilities and 27
    distribution centers in Mexico. These facilities use a variety
    of manufacturing processes. We have strategically located
    manufacturing and distribution capabilities, enabling us to
    better align our operations with our customers, reduce
    transportation costs and have greater control over the timing
    and coordination of new product launches. In addition, our
    warehouses are generally located at or near bottling plants and
    geographically dispersed to ensure our products are available to
    meet consumer demand. We actively manage transportation of our
    products using our own fleet of more than 5,000 delivery trucks,
    as well as third party logistics providers on a selected basis.


 


    Strong operating margins and stable cash
    flows.  The breadth of our brand portfolio has
    enabled us to generate strong operating margins which have
    delivered stable cash flows. These cash flows enable us to
    consider a variety of alternatives, such as investing in our
    business, reducing our debt, paying dividends to our
    stockholders and repurchasing shares of our common stock.


 


    Experienced executive management team.  Our
    executive management team has over 200 years of collective
    experience in the food and beverage industry. The team has broad
    experience in brand ownership, manufacturing and distribution,
    and enjoys strong relationships both within the industry and
    with major customers. In addition, our management team has
    diverse skills that support our operating strategies, including
    driving organic growth through targeted and efficient marketing,
    reducing operating costs, enhancing distribution efficiencies,
    aligning manufacturing and distribution interests and executing
    strategic acquisitions.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    The key elements of our business strategy are to:


 


    Build and enhance leading brands.  We have a
    well-defined portfolio strategy to allocate our marketing and
    sales resources. We use an on-going process of market and
    consumer analysis to identify key brands that we believe have
    the greatest potential for profitable sales growth. We intend to
    continue to invest most heavily in our key brands to drive
    profitable and sustainable growth by strengthening consumer
    awareness, developing innovative products and brand extensions
    to take advantage of evolving consumer trends, improving
    distribution and increasing promotional effectiveness.


 


    Focus on opportunities in high growth and high margin
    categories.  We are focused on driving growth in
    our business in selected profitable and emerging categories.
    These categories include
    ready-to-drink
    teas, energy drinks and other beverages. We also intend to
    capitalize on opportunities in these categories through brand
    extensions, new product launches and selective acquisitions of
    brands and distribution rights. For example, we believe we are
    well-positioned to enter into new distribution agreements for
    emerging, high-





    
    5



Table of Contents





    growth third party brands in new categories that can use our
    manufacturing and distribution network. We can provide these new
    brands with distribution capability and resources to grow, and
    they provide us with exposure to growing segments of the market
    with relatively low risk and capital investment.


 


    Increase presence in high margin channels and
    packages.  We are focused on improving our product
    presence in high margin channels, such as convenience stores,
    vending machines and small independent retail outlets, through
    increased selling activity and significant investments in
    coolers and other cold drink equipment. We have embarked on an
    expanded placement program for our branded coolers and other
    cold drink equipment and intend to significantly increase the
    number of those types of equipment over the next few years,
    which we believe will provide an attractive return on
    investment. We also intend to increase demand for high margin
    products like single-serve packages for many of our key brands
    through increased promotional activity.


 


    Leverage our integrated business model.  We
    believe our integrated brand ownership, manufacturing and
    distribution business model provides us opportunities for net
    sales and profit growth through the alignment of the economic
    interests of our brand ownership and our manufacturing and
    distribution businesses. We intend to leverage our integrated
    business model to reduce costs by creating greater geographic
    manufacturing and distribution coverage and to be more flexible
    and responsive to the changing needs of our large retail
    customers by coordinating sales, service, distribution,
    promotions and product launches. For example, we intend to
    concentrate more of our manufacturing in multi-product, regional
    manufacturing facilities, including opening a new plant in
    Southern California in 2010 and investing in expanded
    capabilities in several of our existing facilities within the
    next several years.


 


    Strengthen our
    route-to-market.  In
    the near term, strengthening our
    route-to-market
    will ensure the ongoing health of our brands. We are rolling out
    handheld technology and upgrading our information technology
    (“IT”) infrastructure to improve route productivity
    and data integrity and standards. With third party bottlers, we
    continue to deliver programs that maintain priority for our
    brands in their systems.


 


    Improve operating efficiency.  The integration
    of acquisitions into our Direct Store Delivery system
    (“DSD”), a component of our Packaged Beverages
    segment, has created the opportunity to improve our
    manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations. For
    example, we have been able to create multi-product manufacturing
    facilities (such as our Irving, Texas facility) which provide a
    region with a wide variety of our products at reduced
    transportation and co-packing costs. In 2009, we established a
    Productivity Office to drive ongoing productivity initiatives.


 



    Our
    Business Operations


 


    As of December 31, 2009, our operating structure consists
    of three business segments: Beverage Concentrates, Packaged
    Beverages and Latin America Beverages. Segment financial data
    for 2009, 2008 and 2007, including financial information about
    foreign and domestic operations, is included in Note 21 of
    the Notes to our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Beverage
    Concentrates


 


    Our Beverage Concentrates segment is principally a brand
    ownership business. In this segment we manufacture and sell
    beverage concentrates in the United States and Canada. Most of
    the brands in this segment are CSD brands. In 2009, our Beverage
    Concentrates segment had net sales of approximately
    $1.1 billion. Key brands include Dr Pepper, 7UP, Sunkist
    soda, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Schweppes, Squirt, RC Cola,
    Diet Rite, Sundrop, Welch’s, Vernors and Country Time and
    the concentrate form of Hawaiian Punch.


 


    We are the industry leader in flavored CSDs with a 40.3% market
    share in the United States for 2009, as measured by retail sales
    according to The Nielsen Company. We are also the third largest
    CSD brand owner as measured by 2009 retail sales in the United
    States and Canada and we own a leading brand in most of the CSD
    categories in which we compete.


 


    Almost all of our beverage concentrates are manufactured at our
    plant in St. Louis, Missouri.




    
    6



Table of Contents





    The beverage concentrates are shipped to third party bottlers,
    as well as to our own manufacturing systems, who combine them
    with carbonation, water, sweeteners and other ingredients,
    package it in PET containers, glass bottles and aluminum cans,
    and sell it as a finished beverage to retailers. Beverage
    concentrates are also manufactured into syrup, which is shipped
    to fountain customers, such as fast food restaurants, who mix
    the syrup with water and carbonation to create a finished
    beverage at the point of sale to consumers. Dr Pepper
    represents most of our fountain channel volume. Concentrate
    prices historically have been reviewed and adjusted at least on
    an annual basis.


 


    Our Beverage Concentrates brands are sold by our bottlers,
    including our own Packaged Beverages segment, through all major
    retail channels including supermarkets, fountains, mass
    merchandisers, club stores, vending machines, convenience
    stores, gas stations, small groceries, drug chains and dollar
    stores. Unlike the majority of our other CSD brands, 72% of Dr
    Pepper volumes are distributed through the
    Coca-Cola
    affiliated and PepsiCo affiliated bottler systems.


 


    Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. (“PBG”) and
    Coca-Cola
    Enterprises, Inc. (“CCE”) are the two largest
    customers of the Beverage Concentrates segment, and constituted
    25% and 23%, respectively, of net sales during 2009.


 



    Packaged
    Beverages


 


    Our Packaged Beverages segment is principally a brand ownership,
    manufacturing and distribution business. In this segment, we
    primarily manufacture and distribute packaged beverages and
    other products, including our brands, third party owned brands
    and certain private label beverages, in the United States and
    Canada. In 2009, our Packaged Beverages segment had net sales of
    approximately $4.1 billion. Key NCB brands in this segment
    include Snapple, Mott’s, Hawaiian Punch, Clamato, Yoo-Hoo,
    Country Time, Nantucket Nectars, ReaLemon, Mr and Mrs T,
    Rose’s and Margaritaville. Key CSD brands in this segment
    include Dr Pepper, 7UP, Sunkist soda, A&W, Canada Dry,
    Squirt, RC Cola, Welch’s, Vernors, IBC, Mistic and Venom
    Energy.


 


    Approximately 87% of our 2009 Packaged Beverages net sales of
    branded products come from our own brands, with the remaining
    from the distribution of third party brands such as FIJI mineral
    water and AriZona tea. A portion of our sales also comes from
    bottling beverages and other products for private label owners
    or others for a fee. Although the majority of our Packaged
    Beverages’ net sales relate to our brands, we also provide
    a
    route-to-market
    for third party brand owners seeking effective distribution for
    their new and emerging brands. These brands give us exposure in
    certain markets to fast growing segments of the beverage
    industry with minimal capital investment.


 


    Our Packaged Beverages’ products are manufactured in
    multiple facilities across the United States and are sold or
    distributed to retailers and their warehouses by our own
    distribution network or by third party distributors. The raw
    materials used to manufacture our products include aluminum cans
    and ends, glass bottles, PET bottles and caps, paper products,
    sweeteners, juices, water and other ingredients.


 


    We sell our Packaged Beverages’ products both through our
    DSD, supported by a fleet of more than 5,000 trucks and
    approximately 12,000 employees, including sales
    representatives, merchandisers, drivers and warehouse workers,
    as well as through our Warehouse Direct delivery system
    (“WD”), both of which include the sales to all major
    retail channels, including supermarkets, fountain channel, mass
    merchandisers, club stores, vending machines, convenience
    stores, gas stations, small groceries, drug chains and dollar
    stores.


 


    In 2009, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., the largest customer of our
    Packaged Beverages segment, accounted for approximately 17% of
    our net sales in this segment.


 



    Latin
    America Beverages


 


    Our Latin America Beverages segment is a brand ownership,
    manufacturing and distribution business. This segment
    participates mainly in the carbonated mineral water, flavored
    CSD, bottled water and vegetable juice categories, with
    particular strength in carbonated mineral water and grapefruit
    flavored CSDs. In 2009, our Latin America Beverages segment had
    net sales of $357 million with our operations in Mexico
    representing approximately 88% of the net sales of this segment.
    Key brands include Peñafiel, Squirt, Clamato and Aguafiel.




    
    7



Table of Contents





    In Mexico, we manufacture and distribute our products through
    our bottling operations and third party bottlers and
    distributors. In the Caribbean, we distribute our products
    through third party bottlers and distributors. In Mexico, we
    also participate in a joint venture to manufacture Aguafiel
    brand water with Acqua Minerale San Benedetto. We provide
    expertise in the Mexican beverage market and Acqua Minerale
    San Benedetto provides expertise in water production and
    new packaging technologies.


 


    We sell our finished beverages through all major Mexican retail
    channels, including the “mom and pop” stores,
    supermarkets, hypermarkets, and on premise channels.


 



    Bottler
    and Distributor Agreements


 


    In the United States and Canada, we generally grant perpetual,
    exclusive license agreements for CSD brands and packages to
    bottlers for specific geographic areas. These agreements
    prohibit bottlers from selling the licensed products outside
    their exclusive territory and selling any imitative products in
    that territory. Generally, we may terminate bottling agreements
    only for cause or change in control and the bottler may
    terminate without cause upon giving certain specified notice and
    complying with other applicable conditions. Fountain agreements
    for bottlers generally are not exclusive for a territory, but do
    restrict bottlers from carrying imitative product in the
    territory. Many of our brands such as Snapple, Mistic,
    Stewart’s, Nantucket Nectars, Yoo-Hoo and Orangina, are
    licensed for distribution in various territories to bottlers and
    a number of smaller distributors such as beer wholesalers, wine
    and spirit distributors, independent distributors and retail
    brokers. We may terminate some of these distribution agreements
    only for cause and the distributor may terminate without cause
    upon certain notice and other conditions. Either party may
    terminate some of the other distribution agreements without
    cause upon giving certain specified notice and complying with
    other applicable conditions.


 



    Agreement
    with PepsiCo, Inc.


 


    On December 8, 2009, DPS agreed to license certain brands
    to PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”) on closing of
    PepsiCo’s proposed acquisitions of PBG and PepsiAmericas,
    Inc. (“PAS”).


 


    Under the new licensing agreements, PepsiCo will distribute Dr
    Pepper, Crush and Schweppes in the U.S. territories where
    these brands are currently distributed by PBG and PAS. The same
    will apply for Dr Pepper, Crush, Schweppes, Vernors and Sussex
    in Canada; and Squirt and Canada Dry in Mexico.


 


    Under the agreements, DPS will receive a one-time cash payment
    of $900 million. The new agreement will have an initial
    period of twenty years with automatic twenty year renewal
    periods, and will require PepsiCo to meet certain performance
    conditions. The payment will be recorded as deferred revenue,
    which will be recognized as net sales ratably over the estimated
    25-year life
    of the customer relationship.


 


    Additionally, in U.S. territories where it has a
    distribution footprint, DPS will begin distributing certain
    owned and licensed brands, including Sunkist soda, Squirt,
    Vernors, Canada Dry and Hawaiian Punch, that were previously
    distributed by PBG and PAS.


 


    On February 26, 2010, the Company completed the licensing
    of those brands to PepsiCo following PepsiCo’s acquisition
    of PBG and PAS.


 



    Customers


 


    We primarily serve two groups of customers: 1) bottlers and
    distributors and 2) retailers.


 


    Bottlers buy beverage concentrates from us and, in turn, they
    manufacture, bottle, sell and distribute finished beverages.
    Bottlers also manufacture and distribute syrup for the fountain
    foodservice channel. In addition, bottlers and distributors
    purchase finished beverages from us and sell them to retail and
    other customers. We have strong relationships with bottlers
    affiliated with
    Coca-Cola
    and PepsiCo primarily because of the strength and market
    position of our key Dr Pepper brand.




    
    8



Table of Contents





    Retailers also buy finished beverages directly from us. Our
    portfolio of strong brands, operational scale and experience in
    the beverage industry has enabled us to maintain strong
    relationships with major retailers in the United States, Canada
    and Mexico. In 2009, our largest retailer was Wal-Mart Stores,
    Inc., representing approximately 13% of our net sales.


 



    Seasonality


 


    The beverage market is subject to some seasonal variations. Our
    beverage sales are generally higher during the warmer months and
    also can be influenced by the timing of holidays as well as
    weather fluctuations.


 



    Competition


 


    The liquid refreshment beverage industry is highly competitive
    and continues to evolve in response to changing consumer
    preferences. Competition is generally based upon brand
    recognition, taste, quality, price, availability, selection and
    convenience. We compete with multinational corporations with
    significant financial resources. Our two largest competitors in
    the liquid refreshment beverage market are
    Coca-Cola
    and PepsiCo, each representing more than 30% of the
    U.S. liquid refreshment beverage market by volume,
    according to Beverage Digest. We also compete against other
    large companies, including Nestlé, S.A.
    (“Nestle”) and Kraft Foods Inc. (“Kraft”).
    These competitors can use their resources and scale to rapidly
    respond to competitive pressures and changes in consumer
    preferences by introducing new products, reducing prices or
    increasing promotional activities. As a bottler, we compete with
    bottlers such as CCE, PBG,PAS and a number of smaller bottlers
    and distributors. We also compete with a variety of smaller,
    regional and private label manufacturers, such as The Cott
    Corporation (“Cott”). Smaller companies may be more
    innovative, better able to bring new products to market and
    better able to quickly exploit and serve niche markets. We have
    lower exposure to some of the faster growing non-carbonated and
    the bottled water segments in the overall liquid refreshment
    beverage market and as a result, although we have increased our
    market share in the overall United States CSD market, we have
    lost share in the overall United States liquid refreshment
    beverage market over the past several years. In Canada, Mexico
    and the Caribbean, we compete with many of these same
    international companies as well as a number of regional
    competitors.


 


    Although these bottlers and distributors are our competitors,
    many of these companies are also our customers as they purchase
    beverage concentrates from us.


 



    Intellectual
    Property and Trademarks


 


    Our Intellectual Property.  We possess a
    variety of intellectual property rights that are important to
    our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks,
    copyrights, patents and trade secrets to safeguard our
    proprietary rights, including our brands and ingredient and
    production formulas for our products.


 


    Our Trademarks.  Our trademark portfolio
    includes more than 2,500 registrations and applications in the
    United States, Canada, Mexico and other countries. Brands we own
    through various subsidiaries in various jurisdictions include Dr
    Pepper, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, RC Cola, Schweppes, Squirt,
    Crush, Peñafiel, Aguafiel, Snapple, Mott’s, Hawaiian
    Punch, Clamato, Mistic, Nantucket Nectars, Mr & Mrs T,
    ReaLemon, Venom and Deja Blue. We own trademark registrations
    for all of these brands in the United States, and we own
    trademark registrations for some but not all of these brands in
    Canada, Mexico and other countries. We also own a number of
    smaller regional brands. Some of our other trademark
    registrations are in countries where we do not currently have
    any significant level of business. In addition, in many
    countries outside the United States, Canada and Mexico, our
    rights to many of our brands, including our Dr Pepper trademark
    and formula, were sold by Cadbury beginning over a decade ago to
    third parties including, in certain cases, to competitors such
    as Coca-Cola.


 


    Trademarks Licensed from Others.  We license
    various trademarks from third parties, which generally allow us
    to manufacture and distribute throughout the United States
    and/or
    Canada and Mexico. For example, we license from third parties
    the Sunkist soda, Welch’s, Country Time, Orangina,
    Stewart’s, Rose’s, Holland House and Margaritaville
    trademarks. Although these licenses vary in length and other
    terms, they generally are long-term, cover the entire United
    States
    and/or
    Canada and Mexico and generally include a royalty payment to the
    licensor.




    
    9



Table of Contents





    Licensed Distribution Rights.  We have rights
    in certain territories to bottle
    and/or
    distribute various brands we do not own, such as AriZona tea and
    FIJI mineral water. Some of these arrangements are relatively
    shorter in term, are limited in geographic scope and the
    licensor may be able to terminate the agreement upon an agreed
    period of notice, in some cases without payment to us.


 


    Intellectual Property We License to Others.  We
    license some of our intellectual property, including trademarks,
    to others. For example, we license the Dr Pepper trademark to
    certain companies for use in connection with food, confectionery
    and other products. We also license certain brands, such as Dr
    Pepper and Snapple, to third parties for use in beverages in
    certain countries where we own the brand but do not otherwise
    operate our business.


 



    Marketing


 


    Our marketing strategy is to grow our brands through
    continuously providing new solutions to meet consumers’
    changing preferences and needs. We identify these preferences
    and needs and develop innovative solutions to address the
    opportunities. Solutions include new and reformulated products,
    improved packaging design, pricing and enhanced availability. We
    use advertising, media, sponsorships, merchandising, public
    relations and promotion to provide maximum impact for our brands
    and messages.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we operated 23 manufacturing
    facilities across the United States and Mexico. Almost all of
    our CSD beverage concentrates are manufactured at a single plant
    in St. Louis, Missouri. All of our manufacturing facilities
    are either regional manufacturing facilities, with the capacity
    and capabilities to manufacture many brands and packages,
    facilities with particular capabilities that are dedicated to
    certain brands or products, or smaller bottling plants with a
    more limited range of packaging capabilities. We will open a
    new, multi-product manufacturing facility in Southern California
    during 2010.


 


    We employ approximately 5,000 full-time manufacturing
    employees in our facilities, including seasonal workers. We have
    a variety of production capabilities, including hot-fill,
    cold-fill and aseptic bottling processes, and we manufacture
    beverages in a variety of packaging materials, including
    aluminum, glass and PET cans and bottles and a variety of
    package formats, including single-serve and multi-serve packages
    and
    “bag-in-box”
    fountain syrup packaging.


 


    In 2009, 89% of our manufactured volumes came from our brands
    and 11% from third party and private-label products. We also use
    third party manufacturers to package our products for us on a
    limited basis.


 


    We owned property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated
    depreciation, totaling $1,044 million and $935 million
    in the United States and $65 million and $55 million
    in international locations as of December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.


 



    Warehousing
    and Distribution


 


    As of December 31, 2009, our distribution network consisted
    of 176 distribution centers in the United States and 27
    distribution centers in Mexico. Our warehouses are generally
    located at or near bottling plants and are geographically
    dispersed to ensure product is available to meet consumer
    demand. We actively manage transportation of our products using
    combination of our own fleet of more than 5,000 delivery trucks,
    as well as third party logistics providers.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    The principal raw materials we use in our business are aluminum
    cans and ends, glass bottles, PET bottles and caps, paper
    products, sweeteners, juice, fruit, water and other ingredients.
    The cost of the raw materials can fluctuate substantially. In
    addition, we are significantly impacted by changes in fuel costs
    due to the large truck fleet we operate in our distribution
    businesses.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    Under many of our supply arrangements for these raw materials,
    the price we pay fluctuates along with certain changes in
    underlying commodities costs, such as aluminum in the case of
    cans, natural gas in the case of glass bottles, resin in the
    case of PET bottles and caps, corn in the case of sweeteners and
    pulp in the case of paperboard packaging. Manufacturing costs
    for our Packaged Beverages segment, where we manufacture and
    bottle finished beverages, are higher as a percentage of our net
    sales than our Beverage Concentrates segment as the Packaged
    Beverages segment requires the purchase of a much larger portion
    of the packaging and ingredients. Although we have contracts
    with a relatively small number of suppliers, we have generally
    not experienced any difficulties in obtaining the required
    amount of raw materials.


 


    When appropriate, we mitigate the exposure to volatility in the
    prices of certain commodities used in our production process
    through the use of futures contracts and supplier pricing
    agreements. The intent of the contracts and agreements is to
    provide predictability in our operating margins and our overall
    cost structure.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Our research and development team is composed of scientists and
    engineers in the United States and Mexico who are focused on
    developing high quality products which have broad consumer
    appeal, can be sold at competitive prices and can be safely and
    consistently produced across a diverse manufacturing network.
    Our research and development team engages in activities relating
    to product development, microbiology, analytical chemistry,
    process engineering, sensory science, nutrition, knowledge
    management and regulatory compliance. We have particular
    expertise in flavors and sweeteners. Research and development
    costs are expensed when incurred and amounted to
    $15 million and $17 million for 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Research and development costs totaled
    $14 million for 2007, net of allocations to Cadbury.
    Additionally, we incurred packaging engineering costs of
    $7 million, $4 million, and $5 million for 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. These expenses are recorded in
    selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated
    Statements of Operations.


 



    Information
    Technology and Transaction Processing Services


 


    We use a variety of IT systems and networks configured to meet
    our business needs. Prior to our separation from Cadbury, IT
    support was provided as a corporate service by Cadbury’s IT
    team and external suppliers. Post separation, we have formed our
    own standalone, dedicated IT function to support our business
    and have separated our systems, services and contracts from
    those of Cadbury. Our primary IT data center is hosted in
    Toronto, Canada by a third party provider. We also use a third
    party vendor for application support and maintenance, which is
    based in India and provides resources offshore and onshore.


 


    We use a business process outsourcing provider located in India
    to provide certain back office transactional processing
    services, including accounting, order entry and other
    transactional services.


 



    Employees


 


    At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately
    19,000 employees, including seasonal and part-time workers.


 


    In the United States, we have approximately
    16,000 full-time employees. We have many union collective
    bargaining agreements covering approximately
    4,000 full-time employees. Several agreements cover
    multiple locations. These agreements often address working
    conditions as well as wage rates and benefits. In Mexico and the
    Caribbean, we employ approximately 3,000 full-time
    employees and are also party to collective bargaining
    agreements. We do not have a significant number of employees in
    Canada.


 


    We believe we have good relations with our employees.


 



    Regulatory
    Matters


 


    We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and
    regulations in the countries in which we do business.
    Regulations apply to many aspects of our business including our
    products and their ingredients, manufacturing, safety, labeling,
    transportation, recycling, advertising and sale. For example,
    our products, and their manufacturing, labeling, marketing and
    sale in the United States are subject to various aspects of the
    Federal





    
    11



Table of Contents





    Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act,
    the Lanham Act, state consumer protection laws and state warning
    and labeling laws. In Canada and Mexico, the manufacture,
    distribution, marketing and sale of our many products are also
    subject to similar statutes and regulations.


 


    We and our bottlers use various refillable and non-refillable,
    recyclable bottles and cans in the United States and other
    countries. Various states and other authorities require
    deposits, eco-taxes or fees on certain containers. Similar
    legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at
    local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and
    elsewhere. In Mexico, the government has encouraged the soft
    drinks industry to comply voluntarily with collection and
    recycling programs of plastic material, and we have taken steps
    to comply with these programs.


 



    Environmental,
    Health and Safety Matters


 


    In the normal course of our business, we are subject to a
    variety of federal, state and local environment, health and
    safety laws and regulations. We maintain environmental, health
    and safety policies and a quality, environmental, health and
    safety program designed to ensure compliance with applicable
    laws and regulations. The cost of such compliance measures does
    not have a material financial impact on our operations.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our web site address is www.drpeppersnapplegroup.com.
    Information on our web site is not incorporated by reference in
    this document. We make available, free of charge through this
    web site, our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such material is electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.


 



    Market
    and Industry Data


 


    The market and industry data in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    is from independent industry sources, including The Nielsen
    Company and Beverage Digest. Although we believe that these
    independent sources are reliable, we have not verified the
    accuracy or completeness of this data or any assumptions
    underlying such data.


 


    The Nielsen Company is a marketing information provider,
    primarily serving consumer packaged goods manufacturers and
    retailers. We use The Nielsen Company data as our primary
    management tool to track market performance because it has broad
    and deep data coverage, is based on consumer transactions at
    retailers, and is reported to us monthly. The Nielsen Company
    data provides measurement and analysis of marketplace trends
    such as market share, retail pricing, promotional activity and
    distribution across various channels, retailers and geographies.
    Measured categories provided to us by The Nielsen Company
    Scantrack include flavored (non-cola) CSDs, energy drinks,
    single-serve bottled water, non-alcoholic mixers and NCBs,
    including
    ready-to-drink
    teas, single-serve and multi-serve juice and juice drinks, and
    sports drinks. The Nielsen Company also provides data on other
    food items such as apple sauce. The Nielsen Company data we
    present in this report is from The Nielsen Company’s
    Scantrack service, which compiles data based on scanner
    transactions in certain sales channels, including grocery
    stores, mass merchandisers, drug chains, convenience stores and
    gas stations. However, this data does not include the fountain
    or vending channels, Wal-Mart or small independent retail
    outlets, which together represent a meaningful portion of the
    United States liquid refreshment beverage market and of our net
    sales and volume.


 


    Beverage Digest is an independent beverage research company that
    publishes an annual Beverage Digest Fact Book. We use Beverage
    Digest primarily to track market share information and broad
    beverage and channel trends. This annual publication provides a
    compilation of data supplied by beverage companies. Beverage
    Digest covers the following categories: CSDs, energy drinks,
    bottled water and NCBs (including
    ready-to-drink
    teas, juice and juice drinks and sports drinks). Beverage Digest
    data does not include multi-serve juice products or bottled
    water in packages of 1.5 liters or more. Data is reported for
    certain sales channels, including grocery stores, mass
    merchandisers, club stores, drug chains, convenience stores, gas
    stations, fountains, vending machines and the
    “up-and-down-the-street”
    channel consisting of small independent retail outlets.




    
    12



Table of Contents





    We use both The Nielsen Company and Beverage Digest to assess
    both our own and our competitors’ performance and market
    share in the United States. Different market share rankings can
    result for a specific beverage category depending on whether
    data from The Nielsen Company or Beverage Digest is used, in
    part because of the differences in the sales channels reported
    by each source. For example, because the fountain channel (where
    we have a relatively small business except for Dr Pepper) is not
    included in The Nielsen Company data, our market share using The
    Nielsen Company data is generally higher for our CSD portfolio
    than the Beverage Digest data, which does include the fountain
    channel.


 


    In this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    all information regarding the beverage market in the United
    States is from Beverage Digest, and, except as otherwise
    indicated, is from 2008. All information regarding our brand
    market positions in the U.S. is from The Nielsen Company
    and is based on retail dollar sales in 2009.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 


    In addition to the other information set forth in this report,
    you should carefully consider the risks described below which
    could materially affect our business, financial condition, or
    future results. Any of the following risks, as well as other
    risks and uncertainties, could harm our business and financial
    condition.


 



    We
    operate in highly competitive markets.


 


    The liquid refreshment beverage industry is highly competitive
    and continues to evolve in response to changing consumer
    preferences. Competition is generally based upon brand
    recognition, taste, quality, price, availability, selection and
    convenience. We compete with multinational corporations with
    significant financial resources. Our two largest competitors in
    the liquid refreshment beverage market are
    Coca-Cola
    and PepsiCo, each representing more than 30% of the
    U.S. liquid refreshment beverage market by volume,
    according to Beverage Digest. We also compete against other
    large companies, including Nestle and Kraft. These competitors
    can use their resources and scale to rapidly respond to
    competitive pressures and changes in consumer preferences by
    introducing new products, reducing prices or increasing
    promotional activities. As a bottler, we compete with bottlers
    such as CCE, PBG, PAS and a number of smaller bottlers and
    distributors. We also compete with a variety of smaller,
    regional and private label manufacturers, such as Cott. Smaller
    companies may be more innovative, better able to bring new
    products to market and better able to quickly exploit and serve
    niche markets. We have lower exposure to some of the faster
    growing non-carbonated and the bottled water segments in the
    overall liquid refreshment beverage market and as a result,
    although we have increased our market share in the overall
    United States CSD market, we have lost share in the overall
    United States liquid refreshment beverage market over the past
    several years. In Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean, we compete
    with many of these same international companies as well as a
    number of regional competitors.


 


    Although these bottlers and distributors are our competitors,
    many of these companies are also our customers as they purchase
    beverage concentrates from us.


 


    Our inability to compete effectively could result in a decline
    in our sales. As a result, we may have to reduce our prices or
    increase our spending on marketing, advertising and product
    innovation. Any of these could negatively affect our business
    and financial performance.


 



    We may
    not effectively respond to changing consumer preferences,
    trends, health concerns and other factors.


 


    Consumers’ preferences can change due to a variety of
    factors, including aging of the population, social trends,
    negative publicity, economic downturn or other factors. For
    example, consumers are increasingly concerned about health and
    wellness, and demand for regular CSDs has decreased as consumers
    have shifted towards low or no calorie soft drinks and,
    increasingly, to NCBs, such as water,
    ready-to-drink
    teas and sports drinks. If we do not effectively anticipate
    these trends and changing consumer preferences, then quickly
    develop new products in





    
    13



Table of Contents





    response, our sales could suffer. Developing and launching new
    products can be risky and expensive. We may not be successful in
    responding to changing markets and consumer preferences, and
    some of our competitors may be better able to respond to these
    changes, either of which could negatively affect our business
    and financial performance.


 



    We
    depend on a small number of large retailers for a significant
    portion of our sales.


 


    Food and beverage retailers in the United States have been
    consolidating, resulting in large, sophisticated retailers with
    increased buying power. They are in a better position to resist
    our price increases and demand lower prices. They also have
    leverage to require us to provide larger, more tailored
    promotional and product delivery programs. If we and our
    bottlers and distributors do not successfully provide
    appropriate marketing, product, packaging, pricing and service
    to these retailers, our product availability, sales and margins
    could suffer. Certain retailers make up a significant percentage
    of our products’ retail volume, including volume sold by
    our bottlers and distributors. Some retailers also offer their
    own private label products that compete with some of our brands.
    The loss of sales of any of our products in a major retailer
    could have a material adverse effect on our business and
    financial performance.


 



    We
    depend on third party bottling and distribution companies for a
    portion of our business.


 


    Net sales from our Beverage Concentrates segment represent sales
    of beverage concentrates to third party bottling companies that
    we do not own. The Beverage Concentrates segment’s net
    sales generate a portion of our overall net sales. Some of these
    bottlers are partly owned by a competitor. In the case of PBG
    and PAS, PepsiCo has acquired majority ownership. Additionally,
    Coca-Cola is now in the process of acquiring ownership of
    CCE’s North American bottling business. The majority of
    these bottlers’ business comes from selling our
    competitors’ products. In addition, some of the products we
    manufacture are distributed by third parties. As independent
    companies, these bottlers and distributors make their own
    business decisions. They may have the right to determine
    whether, and to what extent, they produce and distribute our
    products, our competitors’ products and their own products.
    They may devote more resources to other products or take other
    actions detrimental to our brands. In most cases, they are able
    to terminate their bottling and distribution arrangements with
    us without cause. We may need to increase support for our brands
    in their territories and may not be able to pass on price
    increases to them. Their financial condition could also be
    adversely affected by conditions beyond our control and our
    business could suffer. Deteriorating economic conditions could
    negatively impact the financial viability of third party
    bottlers. Any of these factors could negatively affect our
    business and financial performance.


 



    Our
    financial results may be negatively impacted by recession,
    financial and credit market disruptions and other economic
    conditions.


 


    Customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by
    recession or other economic downturn in the United States,
    Canada, Mexico or the Caribbean, which could result in a
    reduction in our sales volume
    and/or
    switching to lower price offerings. Similarly, disruptions in
    financial and credit markets may impact our ability to manage
    normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers
    and creditors. These disruptions could have a negative impact on
    the ability of our customers to timely pay their obligations to
    us, thus reducing our cash flow, or our vendors to timely supply
    materials.


 


    We could also face increased counterparty risk for our cash
    investments and our hedge arrangements. Declines in the
    securities and credit markets could also affect our pension
    fund, which in turn could increase funding requirements.


 



    Determinations
    in the future that a significant impairment of the value of our
    goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets has
    occurred could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had $8.8 billion of total
    assets, of which approximately $5.7 billion were intangible
    assets. Intangible assets include goodwill, and other intangible
    assets in connection with brands, bottler agreements,
    distribution rights and customer relationships. We conduct
    impairment tests on goodwill and all indefinite lived intangible
    assets annually, as of December 31, or more frequently if
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
    not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of an intangible
    asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized
    in an amount equal to that excess. There was no impairment
    required based





    
    14



Table of Contents





    upon our annual impairment analysis performed as of
    December 31, 2009. For additional information about these
    intangible assets, see “Critical Accounting
    Estimates — Goodwill and Other Indefinite Lived
    Intangible Assets” in Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations,” and our Audited Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    The impairment tests require us to make an estimate of the fair
    value of intangible assets. Since a number of factors may
    influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, we
    are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other
    indefinite lived intangibles will occur in the future. Any such
    impairment would result in us recognizing a non-cash charge in
    our Statement of Operations, which may adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 



    We
    have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could
    adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our
    obligations.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was
    $2,971 million. Total indebtedness is defined as long-term
    obligations of $2,960 million, plus the $8 million
    adjustment related to the change in the fair value of interest
    rate swaps designated as fair value hedges and the
    $3 million of current obligations related to capital leases
    included as a component of accounts payable and accrued
    expenses. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, the Company made
    optional repayments of $405 million, which represented the
    outstanding principal balance on the revolving credit facility
    (the “Revolver”) as of December 31, 2009.


 


    This substantial amount of debt could have important
    consequences to us and our investors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make
    interest payments on this debt; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions.





 


    To the extent we experience deteriorating economic conditions,
    the risks described above would increase. Additionally, it may
    become more difficult to satisfy debt service and other
    obligations, the cash flow available to fund capital
    expenditures, other corporate purposes and to grow our business
    could be reduced. Our actual cash requirements in the future may
    be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not
    be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt
    as it becomes due.


 


    In addition, the credit agreements governing our debt contain
    covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur
    debt at subsidiaries that are not guarantors, incur liens, merge
    or sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially
    all of our assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees
    and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates and
    enter into agreements restricting our ability to incur liens or
    the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions. The
    credit agreement also requires us to comply with certain
    affirmative and financial covenants.


 



    We may
    not comply with applicable government laws and regulations and
    they could change.


 


    We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and
    regulations in the United States, Canada, Mexico and other
    countries in which we do business. These laws and regulations
    apply to many aspects of our business including the manufacture,
    safety, labeling, transportation, advertising and sale of our
    products. See “Regulatory Matters” in Item 1,
    “Business,” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for more information regarding many of these laws and
    regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could
    damage our reputation
    and/or
    result in regulatory actions with substantial penalties. In
    addition, any significant change in such laws or regulations or
    their interpretation, or the introduction of higher standards or
    more stringent laws or regulations could result in increased
    compliance costs or capital expenditures. For example, changes
    in recycling and bottle deposit laws or special taxes on soft
    drinks or ingredients could increase our costs. Regulatory focus
    on the health, safety and marketing of food products is
    increasing. Certain state warning and labeling laws, such as
    California’s “Prop 65,” which requires warnings
    on any product with substances that the state lists as
    potentially causing cancer or birth defects, could become
    applicable to our products.




    
    15



Table of Contents





    Some local and regional governments and school boards have
    enacted, or have proposed to enact, regulations restricting the
    sale of certain types of soft drinks in schools. Any violations
    or changes of regulations could have a material adverse effect
    on our profitability, or disrupt the production or distribution
    of our products, and negatively affect our business and
    financial performance. In addition, taxes imposed on the sale of
    certain of our products by federal, state, local and foreign
    governments could cause consumers to shift away from purchasing
    our products. For example, some members of the United States
    federal government have raised the possibility of a federal tax
    on the sale of certain “sugared” beverages, including
    non-diet soft drinks, fruit drinks, teas, and flavored waters,
    to help pay for the cost of healthcare reform. Some United
    States state governments are also considering similar taxes. If
    enacted, such taxes could materially affect our business and
    financial results.


 



    Our
    distribution agreements with our allied brands could be
    terminated.


 


    Hansen Natural Corporation and glacéau terminated their
    distribution agreements with us in 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    We are subject to a risk of other allied brands, such as FIJI
    and AriZona, terminating their distribution agreements with us,
    which could negatively affect our business and financial
    performance.


 



    Litigation
    or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities
    and damage our reputation.


 


    We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings.
    We evaluate these claims and proceedings to assess the
    likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible,
    the amount of potential losses. We may establish a reserve as
    appropriate based upon assessments and estimates in accordance
    with our accounting policies. We base our assessments, estimates
    and disclosures on the information available to us at the time
    and rely on legal and management judgment. Actual outcomes or
    losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates.
    Actual settlements, judgments or resolutions of these claims or
    proceedings may negatively affect our business and financial
    performance. For more information, see Note 20 of the Notes
    to our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Benefits
    cost increases could reduce our profitability.


 


    Our profitability is substantially affected by the costs of
    pension, postretirement, employee medical costs and other
    benefits. In recent years, these costs have increased
    significantly due to factors such as increases in health care
    costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and
    changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related
    liabilities. Although we actively seek to control increases in
    costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in
    limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in
    costs could have a material adverse affect on our business and
    financial performance.


 



    Costs
    for our raw materials may increase substantially.


 


    The principal raw materials we use in our business are aluminum
    cans and ends, glass bottles, PET bottles and caps, paperboard
    packaging, sweeteners, juice, fruit, water and other
    ingredients. Additionally, conversion of raw materials into our
    products for sale also uses electricity and natural gas. The
    cost of the raw materials can fluctuate substantially. We are
    significantly impacted by increases in fuel costs due to the
    large truck fleet we operate in our distribution businesses and
    our use of third party carriers. Under many of our supply
    arrangements, the price we pay for raw materials fluctuates
    along with certain changes in underlying commodities costs, such
    as aluminum in the case of cans, natural gas in the case of
    glass bottles, resin in the case of PET bottles and caps, corn
    in the case of sweeteners and pulp in the case of paperboard
    packaging. Continued price increases could exert pressure on our
    costs and we may not be able to pass along any such increases to
    our customers or consumers, which could negatively affect our
    business and financial performance.


 



    Certain
    raw materials we use are available from a limited number of
    suppliers and shortages could occur.


 


    Some raw materials we use, such as aluminum cans and ends, glass
    bottles, PET bottles, sweeteners and other ingredients, are
    sourced from industries characterized by a limited supply base.
    If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our
    requirements, we could suffer shortages or substantial cost
    increases. Changing suppliers can





    
    16



Table of Contents





    require long lead times. The failure of our suppliers to meet
    our needs could occur for many reasons, including fires, natural
    disasters, weather, manufacturing problems, disease, crop
    failure, strikes, transportation interruption, government
    regulation, political instability and terrorism. A failure of
    supply could also occur due to suppliers’ financial
    difficulties, including bankruptcy. Some of these risks may be
    more acute where the supplier or its plant is located in riskier
    or less-developed countries or regions. Any significant
    interruption to supply or cost increase could substantially harm
    our business and financial performance.


 



    Substantial
    disruption to production at our manufacturing and distribution
    facilities could occur.


 


    A disruption in production at our beverage concentrates
    manufacturing facility, which manufactures almost all of our
    concentrates, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. In addition, a disruption could occur at any of our
    other facilities or those of our suppliers, bottlers or
    distributors. The disruption could occur for many reasons,
    including fire, natural disasters, weather, water scarcity,
    manufacturing problems, disease, strikes, transportation
    interruption, government regulation or terrorism. Alternative
    facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be
    available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant
    time to start production, each of which could negatively affect
    our business and financial performance.


 



    Our
    facilities and operations may require substantial investment and
    upgrading.


 


    We have an ongoing program of investment and upgrading in our
    manufacturing, distribution and other facilities. We expect to
    incur substantial costs to upgrade or keep
    up-to-date
    various facilities and equipment or restructure our operations,
    including closing existing facilities or opening new ones. If
    our investment and restructuring costs are higher than
    anticipated or our business does not develop as anticipated to
    appropriately utilize new or upgraded facilities, our costs and
    financial performance could be negatively affected.


 



    We may
    not be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on
    satisfactory terms, or we could experience
    strikes.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, approximately 4,000 of our
    employees, many of whom are at our key manufacturing locations,
    were covered by collective bargaining agreements. These
    agreements typically expire every three to four years at various
    dates. We may not be able to renew our collective bargaining
    agreements on satisfactory terms or at all. This could result in
    strikes or work stoppages, which could impair our ability to
    manufacture and distribute our products and result in a
    substantial loss of sales. The terms of existing or renewed
    agreements could also significantly increase our costs or
    negatively affect our ability to increase operational efficiency.


 



    Our
    products may not meet health and safety standards or could
    become contaminated.


 


    We have adopted various quality, environmental, health and
    safety standards. However, our products may still not meet these
    standards or could otherwise become contaminated. A failure to
    meet these standards or contamination could occur in our
    operations or those of our bottlers, distributors or suppliers.
    This could result in expensive production interruptions, recalls
    and liability claims. Moreover, negative publicity could be
    generated from false, unfounded or nominal liability claims or
    limited recalls. Any of these failures or occurrences could
    negatively affect our business and financial performance.


 



    Our
    intellectual property rights could be infringed or we could
    infringe the intellectual property rights of others and adverse
    events regarding licensed intellectual property, including
    termination of distribution rights, could harm our
    business.


 


    We possess intellectual property that is important to our
    business. This intellectual property includes ingredient
    formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes
    and other trade secrets. See “Intellectual Property and
    Trademarks” in Item 1, “Business,” of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for more information. We and third parties, including
    competitors, could come into conflict over intellectual property
    rights. Litigation could disrupt our business, divert management
    attention and cost a substantial amount to protect our rights or
    defend





    
    17



Table of Contents





    ourselves against claims. We cannot be certain that the steps we
    take to protect our rights will be sufficient or that others
    will not infringe or misappropriate our rights. If we are unable
    to protect our intellectual property rights, our brands,
    products and business could be harmed.


 


    We also license various trademarks from third parties and
    license our trademarks to third parties. In some countries,
    other companies own a particular trademark which we own in the
    United States, Canada or Mexico. For example, the Dr Pepper
    trademark and formula is owned by
    Coca-Cola in
    certain other countries. Adverse events affecting those third
    parties or their products could affect our use of the trademark
    and negatively impact our brands.


 


    In some cases, we license products from third parties which we
    distribute. The licensor may be able to terminate the license
    arrangement upon an agreed period of notice, in some cases
    without payment to us of any termination fee. The termination of
    any material license arrangement could adversely affect our
    business and financial performance.


 



    We
    could lose key personnel or may be unable to recruit qualified
    personnel.


 


    Our performance significantly depends upon the continued
    contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both
    individually and as a group, and our ability to retain and
    motivate them. Our officers and key personnel have many years of
    experience with us and in our industry and it may be difficult
    to replace them. If we lose key personnel or are unable to
    recruit qualified personnel, our operations and ability to
    manage our business may be adversely affected. We do not have
    “key person” life insurance for any of our executive
    officers or key employees.


 



    We
    depend on key information systems and third party service
    providers.


 


    We depend on key information systems to accurately and
    efficiently transact our business, provide information to
    management and prepare financial reports. We rely on third party
    providers for a number of key information systems and business
    processing services, including hosting our primary data center
    and processing various accounting, order entry and other
    transactional services. These systems and services are
    vulnerable to interruptions or other failures resulting from,
    among other things, natural disasters, terrorist attacks,
    software, equipment or telecommunications failures, processing
    errors, computer viruses, hackers, other security issues or
    supplier defaults. Security, backup and disaster recovery
    measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to avoid
    such disruptions or failures. Any disruption or failure of these
    systems or services could cause substantial errors, processing
    inefficiencies, security breaches, inability to use the systems
    or process transactions, loss of customers or other business
    disruptions, all of which could negatively affect our business
    and financial performance.


 



    Weather
    and climate changes could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may
    negatively impact the price or availability of raw materials,
    energy and fuel, and demand for our products. Unusually cool
    weather during the summer months may result in reduced demand
    for our products and have a negative effect on our business and
    financial performance.


 


    There is growing political and scientific sentiment that
    increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse
    gases in the atmosphere are influencing global weather patterns
    (“global warming”). Changing weather patterns, along
    with the increased frequency or duration of extreme weather
    conditions, could negatively impact the availability or increase
    the cost of key raw materials that we use to produce our
    products. Additionally, the sale of our products can be
    negatively impacted by weather conditions.


 


    Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led
    to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting
    greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For example, proposals that
    would impose mandatory requirements on GHG emissions continue to
    be considered by policy makers in the countries that we operate.
    Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect our production,
    distribution, packaging, cost of raw materials, fuel,
    ingredients, and water could all negatively impact our business
    and financial results.




    
    18



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1B