ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business<font style="font-family:inherit;font-size:10
pt;background-color:#ffffff;">In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the risks described below which could materially affect our business, financial condition, or future results. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could harm our business and financial condition. We operate in highly competitive markets.The LRB industry is highly competitive and continues to evolve in response to changing consumer preferences. Competition is generally based upon brand recognition, taste, quality
, price, availability, selection and convenience. We compete with multinational corporations with significant financial resources. Our two largest competitors in the LRB market are Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, which represent approximately 63% of the U.S. liquid refreshment beverage market by volume, according to Beverage Digest. We also compete against other large companies, including Nestle and Kraft. These competitors can use their resources and scale to rapidly respond to competitive pressures and changes in consumer preferences by introducing new products, reducing prices or increasing promotional activities. As a bottler and manufacturer, we also compete with a number of smaller bottlers and distributors and a variety of smaller, regional and private label manufacturers, such as Cott. Smaller companies may be more innovative, better able to bring new products to market and better able to quickly exploit and serve niche markets. We have lower exposure to some of the faster growing non-carbonated and the 
bottled water segments in the overall LRB market. In Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean, we compete with many of these same international companies as well as a number of regional competitors.Our inability to compete effectively could result in a decline in our sales. As a result, we may have to reduce our prices or increase our spending on marketing, advertising and product innovation. Any of these could negatively affect our business and financial performance.We may not effectively respond to changing consumer preferences, trends, health concerns and other factors.<div style="line-height:120%;padding-bottom:12px;
text-align:justify;text-indent:24px;font-size:10pt;">Consumers’ preferences can change due to a variety of factors, including aging of the population, social trends, negative publicity, economic downturn or other factors. For example, consumers are increasingly concerned about health and wellness, and demand for regular CSDs has decreased as consumers have shifted towards low or no calorie soft drinks and, increasingly, to NCBs, such as water, ready-to-drink teas and sports drinks. If we do not effectively anticipate these trends and changing consumer preferences, then quickly develop new products in response, our sales could suffer. Developing and launching new products can be risky and expensive. We may not be successful in responding to changing markets and consumer preferences, and some of our competitors may be better able to respond to these changes, either of which could negatively affect our business and financial perfor
mance.We depend on a small number of large retailers for a significant portion of our sales.Food and beverage retailers in the U.S. have been consolidating, resulting in large, sophisticated retailers with increased buying power. They are in a better position to resist our price increases and demand lower prices. They also have leverage to require us to provide larger, more tailored promotional and product delivery programs. If we and our bottlers and distributors do not successfully provide appropriate marketing, product, packaging, pricing and service to these retailers, our product availability, sales and margins could suf
fer. Certain retailers make up a significant percentage of our products’ retail volume, including volume sold by our bottlers and distributors. Some retailers also offer their own private label products that compete with some of our brands. The loss of sales of any of our products in a major retailer could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance.12Table of Contents<font style="font-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;font-style:italic;font
- -weight:bold;">We depend on third party bottling and distribution companies for a portion of our business.Net sales from our Beverage Concentrates segment represent sales of beverage concentrates to third party bottling companies that we do not own. The Beverage Concentrates segment's net sales generate a portion of our overall net sales. Some of these bottlers are our competitors, as PepsiCo purchased PBG and PAS and Coca-Cola acquired CCE’s North American Bottling Business during 2010. The majority of these bottlers’ business comes from selling either their own products or our competitors’ products. In addition, some of the products we manufacture are distributed by
 third parties. As independent companies, these bottlers and distributors make their own business decisions. They may have the right to determine whether, and to what extent, they produce and distribute our products, our competitors’ products and their own products. They may devote more resources to other products or take other actions detrimental to our brands. In most cases, they are able to terminate their bottling and distribution arrangements with us without cause. We may need to increase support for our brands in their territories and may not be able to pass on price increases to them. Their financial condition could also be adversely affected by conditions beyond our control and our business could suffer. Deteriorating economic conditions could negatively impact the financial viability of third party bottlers. Any of these factors could negatively affect our business and financial performance. <div style="line-height:120%
;padding-bottom:12px;text-align:justify;text-indent:12px;font-size:10pt;">Our financial results may be negatively impacted by recession, financial and credit market disruptions and other economic conditions.Customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by recession or other economic downturn in the U.S., Canada, Mexico or the Caribbean, which could result in a reduction in our sales volume and/or switching to lower price offerings. Similarly, disruptions in financial and credit markets may impact our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. These disruptions could have a negative impact on the ability of our customers to timely pay their obligations to us, thus reducing
 our cash flow, or our vendors to timely supply materials.We could also face increased counterparty risk for our cash investments and our hedge arrangements. Declines in the securities and credit markets could also affect our pension fund, which in turn could increase funding requirements.Determinations in the future that a significant impairment of the value of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets has occurred could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.<font style="fon
t-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;background-color:#ffffff;">As of December 31, 2010, we had $8.9 billion of total assets, of which approximately $5.7 billion were intangible assets. Intangible assets include goodwill, and other intangible assets in connection with brands, bottler agreements, distribution rights and customer relationships. We conduct impairment tests on goodwill and all indefinite lived intangib
le assets annually, as of December 31, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. There was no impairment required based upon our annual impairment analysis performed as of December 31, 2010. For additional information about these intangible assets, see “Critical Accounting Estimates — Goodwill and Other Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets” in Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Da
ta,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.The impairment tests require us to make an estimate of the fair value of intangible assets. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, we are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangibles will occur in the future. Any such impairment would result in us recognizing a non-cash charge in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations.Our total indebtedness could affect our operations and profitability.<div style="line-height:120%
;padding-bottom:12px;text-align:justify;text-indent:24px;font-size:10pt;">We maintain levels of debt we consider prudent based on our cash flows. As of December 31, 2010, our total indebtedness was $2,094 million. Subsequent to December 31, 2010, the Company issued an additional $500 million of senior unsecured notes.</font
>This amount of debt could have important consequences to us and our investors, including:•    requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; and<table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" style="padding-bottom:12px;font-family:Times New Roman; font-size:10pt;
">•    increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, which could impact our debt maturity profile.While we believe we will have the ability to service our debt and will have access to additional sources of capital in the future if and when needed, that will depend upon our results of operations and financial position at the time, the then-current state of the credit and financial markets, and other
 factors that may be beyond our control.13Table of ContentsWe may not comply with applicable government laws and regulations and they could change.We are subject to a variety of federal, state and loca
l laws and regulations in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and other countries in which we do business. These laws and regulations apply to many aspects of our business including the manufacture, safety, labeling, transportation, advertising and sale of our products. See “Regulatory Matters” in Item 1, “Business,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding many of these laws and regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could damage our reputation and/or result in regulatory actions with substantial penalties. In addition, any significant change in such laws or regulations or their interpretation, or the introduction of higher standards or more stringent laws or regulations could result in increased compliance costs or capital expenditures. For example, changes in recycling and bottle deposit laws or special taxes on soft drinks or ingredients could increase our costs. Regulatory focus on the health, safety and marketing of food products is increasi
ng. Certain state warning and labeling laws, such as California's “Prop 65,” which requires warnings on any product with substances that the state lists as potentially causing cancer or birth defects, could become applicable to our products.Some local and regional governments and school boards have enacted, or have proposed to enact, regulations restricting the sale of certain types of soft drinks in schools. Any violations or changes of regulations could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, or disrupt the production or distribution of our products, and negatively affect our business and financial performance. In addition, taxes imposed on the sale of certain of our products by federal, state, local and foreign governments could cause consumers to shift away from purchasing our products. For ex
ample, some members of the U.S. federal government have raised the possibility of a federal tax on the sale of certain “sugared” beverages, including non-diet soft drinks, fruit drinks, teas, and flavored waters, to help pay for the cost of healthcare reform. Some U.S. state governments are also considering similar taxes. If enacted, such taxes could materially affect our business and financial results.Our distribution agreements with our allied brands could be terminated.Hansen Natural Corporation and glacéau terminated their distribution agreements with us in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We are subject to
 a risk of other allied brands, such as FIJI and AriZona, terminating their distribution agreements with us, which could negatively affect our business and financial performance.Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation.We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these claims and proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. We may establish a reserve as appropriate based upon assessments and estimates in accordance with our accounting policies. We base our asses
sments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time and rely on legal and management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates. Actual settlements, judgments or resolutions of these claims or proceedings may negatively affect our business and financial performance. For more information, see Note 20 of the Notes to our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.Benefits cost increases could reduce our profitability.Our profitability is substantially affected by the costs of pension, postretirement, employee medical costs and other benefits. In rece
nt years, these costs have increased significantly due to factors such as increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. These factors plus the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in March 2010 will continue to put pressure on our business and financial performance. Although we actively seek to control increases in costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in costs, could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial performance.Costs for our raw materials may increase substantially.<div style="line-height:120%;padding-bottom:12px;text-align:justify;text-indent:24px;font-s
ize:10pt;">The principal raw materials we use in our business are aluminum cans and ends, glass bottles, PET bottles and caps, paperboard packaging, sweeteners, juice, fruit, water and other ingredients. Additionally, conversion of raw materials into our products for sale also uses electricity and natural gas. The cost of the raw materials can fluctuate substantially. We are significantly impacted by increases in fuel costs due to the large truck fleet we operate in our distribution businesses and our use of third party carriers. Under many of our supply arrangements, the price we pay for raw materials fluctuates along with certain changes in underlying commodities costs, such as aluminum in the case of cans, natural gas in the case of glass bottles, resin in the case of PET bottles and caps, corn in the case of sweeteners and pulp in the case of paperboard packaging. Continued price increases could exert pressure on our costs and we 
may not be able to pass along any such increases to our customers or consumers, which could negatively affect our business and financial performance.14Table of ContentsCertain raw materials we use are available from a limited number of suppliers and shortages could occur.<fon
t style="font-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;background-color:#ffffff;">Some raw materials we use, such as aluminum cans and ends, glass bottles, PET bottles, sweeteners and other ingredients, are sourced from industries characterized by a limited supply base. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our requirements, we could suffer shortages or substantial cost increases. Changing suppliers can require long lead times. The failure of our suppliers to meet our needs could occur for many reasons, including fires, natural disasters, weather, manufacturing problems, disease, crop failure, strikes, transportation interruption, government regulation, political instability and terrorism. A failure of supply could also occur due to suppliers’ financial difficulties, including bankruptcy. Some of these risks may be more acute where the supplier or its plant is located in riskier or less-developed countries or regions. Any significant interruption to supply or cost increase could substantially harm our 
business and financial performance.Substantial disruption to production at our manufacturing and distribution facilities could occur.A disruption in production at our beverage concentrates manufacturing facility, which manufactures almost all of our concentrates, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, a disruption could occur at any of our other facilities or those of our suppliers, bottlers or distributors. The disruption could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, water scarcity, manufacturing problems, disease, strikes, transportation interruption, government regula
tion or terrorism. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, each of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance.Our facilities and operations may require substantial investment and upgrading.We have an ongoing program of investment and upgrading in our manufacturing, distribution and other facilities. We expect to incur substantial costs to upgrade or keep up-to-date various facilities and equipment or restructure our operations, including closing existing facilities or opening 
new ones. If our investment and restructuring costs are higher than anticipated or our business does not develop as anticipated to appropriately utilize new or upgraded facilities, our costs and financial performance could be negatively affected.We may not be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, or we could experience strikes.As of December 31, 2010, approximately <font style="f
ont-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;background-color:#ffffff;color:#000000;text-decoration:none;">4,000 of our employees, many of whom are at our key manufacturing locations, were covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements typically expire every three to four years at various dates. We may not be able to renew our collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms or at all. This could result in strikes or work stoppages, which could impair our ability to manufacture and distribute our products and result in a substantial loss of sales. The terms of existing or renewed agreements could also significantly increase our costs or negatively affect our ability to increase operational efficiency.Our products may not 
meet health and safety standards or could become contaminated.We have adopted various quality, environmental, health and safety standards. However, our products may still not meet these standards or could otherwise become contaminated. A failure to meet these standards or contamination could occur in our operations or those of our bottlers, distributors or suppliers. This could result in expensive production interruptions, recalls and liability claims. Moreover, negative publicity could be generated from false, unfounded or nominal liability claims or limited recalls. Any of these failures or occurrences could negatively affect our business and financial performance.<font style="font-family:inherit;font-size:
10pt;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold;">Our intellectual property rights could be infringed or we could infringe the intellectual property rights of others and adverse events regarding licensed intellectual property, including termination of distribution rights, could harm our business.We possess intellectual property that is important to our business. This intellectual property includes ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets. See “Intellectual Property and Trademarks” in Item 1, “Business,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. We and third parties, including competitors, could come into conflict over intellectual property rights. Litigation could disrupt our business, divert management attention and cost a su
bstantial amount to protect our rights or defend ourselves against claims. We cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our rights will be sufficient or that others will not infringe or misappropriate our rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brands, products and business could be harmed.We also license various trademarks from third parties and license our trademarks to third parties. In some countries, other companies own a particular trademark which we own in the U.S., Canada or Mexico. For example, the Dr Pepper trademark and formula is owned by Coca-Cola in certain other countries. Adverse events affecting those third parties or their products could affect our use of the trademark and negatively impact our brands.<div style="text-align:center;vertical-alig
n:inherit;">15Table of ContentsIn some cases, we license products from third parties which we distribute. The licensor may be able to terminate the license arrangement upon an agreed period of notice, in some cases without payment to us of any termination fee. The termination of any material license arrangement could adversely affect our business and financial performance.<div style="line-height:120%;padding-bottom:12px;text-align:justify;text-indent:12px;
font-size:10pt;">We could lose key personnel or may be unable to recruit qualified personnel.Our performance significantly depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group, and our ability to retain and motivate them. Our officers and key personnel have many years of experience with us and in our industry and it may be difficult to replace them. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our operations and ability to manage our business may be adversely affected. We do not have “key person” life insurance for any of our executive officers or key employees.<div style="line-height:120%;padding-bottom:12px;text-align:jus
tify;text-indent:12px;font-size:10pt;">We depend on key information systems and third party service providers.We depend on key information systems to accurately and efficiently transact our business, provide information to management and prepare financial reports. We rely on third party providers for a number of key information systems and business processing services, including hosting our primary data center and processing various accounting, order entry and other transactional services. These systems and services are vulnerable to interruptions or other failures resulting from, among other things, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, processing errors, computer viruses, hackers, othe
r security issues or supplier defaults. Security, backup and disaster recovery measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to avoid such disruptions or failures. Any disruption or failure of these systems or services could cause substantial errors, processing inefficiencies, security breaches, inability to use the systems or process transactions, loss of customers or other business disruptions, all of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance.Weather and climate changes could adversely affect our business.Unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the
 price or availability of raw materials, energy and fuel, and demand for our products. Unusually cool weather during the summer months may result in reduced demand for our products and have a negative effect on our business and financial performance.There is growing political and scientific sentiment that increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are influencing global weather patterns (“global warming”). Changing weather patterns, along with the increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions, could negatively impact the availability or increase the cost of key raw materials that we use to produce our products. Additionally, the sale of our products can be negatively impacted by weather conditions.<div style="line-height:120%;text-align:
justify;text-indent:24px;font-size:10pt;">Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on GHG emissions continue to be considered by policy makers in the countries that we operate. Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect our production, distribution, packaging, cost of raw materials, fuel, ingredients, and water could all negatively impact our business and financial results.Changes in accounting standards could affect our reported financial results. <div style="line-height:120%;padding-bottom:6px;padding-top:6px;text-align:left;text
- -indent:24px;font-size:10pt;">The number of new accounting standards or pronouncements is increasing as the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board work towards a convergence of accounting standards. Certain standards may become applicable to us and change the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, which could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods.  ITEM 1B