Item 1A
    under “Risks Related to Our Business” and elsewhere in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    These risk factors may not be exhaustive as we operate in a
    continually changing business environment with new risks
    emerging from time to time that we are unable to predict or that
    we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on
    our business. You should carefully read this report in its
    entirety as it contains important information about our business
    and the risks we face.


 


    Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
    uncertainties, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the highly competitive markets in which we operate and our
    ability to compete with companies that have significant
    financial resources;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in consumer preferences, trends and health concerns;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintaining our relationships with our large retail customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    dependence on third party bottling and distribution companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    future impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    need to service a significant amount of debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    negative impact on our financial results caused by recent global
    financial events;




 



     
        • 

    
    litigation claims or legal proceedings against us;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of employee benefits;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in cost of materials or supplies used in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages of materials used in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    substantial disruption at our manufacturing or distribution
    facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    need for substantial investment and restructuring at our
    production, distribution and other facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    strikes or work stoppages;




 



     
        • 

    
    our products meeting health and safety standards or
    contamination of our products;






    
    ii



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    infringement of our intellectual property rights by third
    parties, intellectual property claims against us or adverse
    events regarding licensed intellectual property;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to comply with, or changes in, governmental
    regulations in the countries in which we operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure of our acquisition and integration strategies;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to retain or recruit qualified personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions to our information systems and third-party service
    providers;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather and climate changes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other factors discussed in Item 1A under “Risks
    Related to Our Business Factors” and elsewhere in this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.






    
    iii



Table of Contents



 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS





 



    Our
    Company


 


    Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. is a leading integrated brand
    owner, bottler and distributor of non-alcoholic beverages in the
    United States, Canada and Mexico with a diverse portfolio of
    flavored (non-cola) carbonated soft drinks (“CSD”) and
    non-carbonated beverages (“NCB”), including
    ready-to-drink
    teas, juices, juice drinks and mixers. We have some of the most
    recognized beverage brands in North America, with significant
    consumer awareness levels and long histories that evoke strong
    emotional connections with consumers. References in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    to “we”, “our”, “us”,
    “DPS” or “the Company” refer to Dr Pepper
    Snapple Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context
    requires otherwise.


 


    The following table provides highlights about our company:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    


 


    •


 


    #1 flavored CSD company in the United States




 



    •



 


    More than 75% of our volume from brands that are either #1 or #2
    in their category




 



    •



 


    #3 North American liquid refreshment beverage business




 



    •



 


    $5.7 billion of net sales in 2008 from the United States (89%),
    Canada (4%) and Mexico and the Caribbean (7%)








 



    History
    of Our Business


 


    We have built our business over the last 25 years through a
    series of strategic acquisitions. In the 1980’s through the
    mid-1990’s, we began building on our then existing
    Schweppes business by adding brands such as Mott’s, Canada
    Dry and A&W and a license for Sunkist. We also acquired the
    Peñafiel business in Mexico. In 1995, we acquired Dr
    Pepper/Seven Up, Inc., having previously made minority
    investments in the company. In 1999, we acquired a 40%, interest
    in Dr Pepper/ Seven Up Bottling Group, Inc.,
    (“DPSUBG”), which was then our largest independent
    bottler, and increased our interest to 45% in 2005. In 2000, we
    acquired Snapple and other brands, significantly increasing our
    share of the United States NCB market segment. In 2003, we
    created Cadbury Schweppes Americas Beverages by integrating the
    way we managed our four North American businesses (Mott’s,
    Snapple, Dr Pepper/Seven Up and Mexico). During 2006 and 2007,
    we acquired the remaining 55% of DPSUBG and several smaller
    bottlers and integrated them as our Bottling Group operations,
    thereby expanding our geographic coverage.


 



    Formation
    of Our Company and Separation from Cadbury


 


    In 2008, Cadbury Schweppes plc (“Cadbury Schweppes”)
    separated its beverage business in the United States, Canada,
    Mexico and the Caribbean (the “Americas Beverages
    business”) from its global confectionery business by
    contributing the subsidiaries that operated its Americas
    Beverages business to us. The separation involved a number of
    steps, and as a result of these steps:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    On May 1, 2008, Cadbury plc (“Cadbury plc”)
    became the parent company of Cadbury Schweppes. Cadbury plc and
    Cadbury Schweppes are hereafter collectively referred to as
    “Cadbury” unless otherwise indicated.




 



     
        • 

    
    On May 7, 2008, Cadbury plc transferred its Americas
    Beverages business to us and we became an independent
    publicly-traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange
    under the symbol “DPS”. In return for the transfer of
    the Americas Beverages business, we distributed our common stock
    to Cadbury plc shareholders. As of the date of distribution, a
    total of 800 million shares of our common stock, par value
    $0.01 per share, and 15 million shares of our undesignated
    preferred stock were authorized. On the date of distribution,
    253.7 million shares of our common stock were issued and
    outstanding and no shares of preferred stock were issued.





 


    We were incorporated in Delaware on October 24, 2007. Prior
    to separation Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. did not have any
    operations. Refer to Note 4 of the Notes to the Audited
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



    
    1



Table of Contents





    Products
    and Distribution


 


    We are a leading integrated brand owner, bottler and distributor
    of non-alcoholic beverages in the United States, Mexico and
    Canada and we also distribute our products in the Caribbean. In
    2008, 89% of our net sales were generated in the United States,
    4% in Canada and 7% in Mexico and the Caribbean. We sold
    1.6 billion equivalent 288 ounce cases in 2008. The
    following table provides highlights about our key brands:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    


 


    •


 


    #1 in its flavor category and #2 overall flavored CSD in the
    United States




 



    •



 


    Distinguished by its unique blend of 23 flavors and loyal
    consumer following




 



    •



 


    Flavors include regular, diet and cherry




 



    •



 


    Oldest major soft drink in the United States, introduced in 1885




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    A leading ready-to-drink tea in the United States




 



    •



 


    A full range of tea products including premium, super premium
    and value teas




 



    •



 


    Brand also includes premium juices, juice drinks and enhanced
    waters




 



    •



 


    Founded in Brooklyn, New York in 1972




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #2 lemon-lime CSD in the United States




 



    •



 


    Flavors include regular, diet and cherry antioxidant




 



    •



 


    The original “Un-Cola,” created in 1929




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 apple juice and #1 apple sauce brand in the United States




 



    •



 


    Juice products include apple and other fruit juices, Mott’s
    Plus and Mott’s for Tots




 



    •



 


    Apple sauce products include regular, unsweetened, flavored and
    organic




 



    •



 


    Brand began as a line of apple cider and vinegar offerings in
    1842




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 orange CSD in the United States




 



    •



 


    Flavors include orange, diet and other fruits




 



    •



 


    Licensed to us as a soft drink by the Sunkist Growers
    Association since 1986




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 fruit punch brand in the United States




 



    •



 


    Brand includes a variety of fruit flavored and reduced calorie
    juice drinks




 



    •



 


    Developed originally as an ice cream topping known as
    “Leo’s Hawaiian Punch” in 1934




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 root beer in the United States




 



    •



 


    Flavors include regular and diet root beer and cream soda




 



    •



 


    A classic all-American beverage first sold at a veteran’s
    parade in 1919




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 ginger ale in the United States and Canada




 



    •



 


    Brand includes club soda, tonic, green tea ginger ale and other
    mixers




 



    •



 


    Created in Toronto, Canada in 1904 and introduced in the United
    States in 1919





    
    2



Table of Contents






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    


 


    •


 


    #2 ginger ale in the United States and Canada




 



    •



 


    Brand includes club soda, tonic and other mixers




 



    •



 


    First carbonated beverage in the world, invented in 1783




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 grapefruit CSD in the United States and a leading grapefruit
    CSD in Mexico




 



    •



 


    Founded in 1938




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    Leading spicy tomato juice brand in the United States, Canada
    and Mexico




 



    •



 


    Key ingredient in Canada’s popular cocktail, the Bloody
    Caesar




 



    •



 


    Created in 1969




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 carbonated mineral water brand in Mexico




 



    •



 


    Brand includes Flavors, Twist and Naturel




 



    •



 


    Mexico’s oldest mineral water




 


 


 


 


 




    


 


    •


 


    #1 portfolio of mixer brands in the United States




 



    •



 


    #1 Bloody Mary brand (Mr & Mrs T) in the United States




 



    •



 


    Leading mixers (Margaritaville and Rose’s) in their flavor
    categories








 






    The market and industry data in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    is from independent industry sources, including The Nielsen
    Company and Beverage Digest. See “Market and Industry
    Data” below for further information.


 


    The Sunkist, Rose’s and Margaritaville logos are registered
    trademarks of Sunkist Growers, Inc., Cadbury Ireland Limited and
    Margaritaville Enterprises, LLC, respectively, in each case used
    by us under license. All other logos in the table above are
    registered trademarks of DPS or its subsidiaries.


 


    In the CSD market segment in the United States and Canada, we
    participate primarily in the flavored CSD category. Our key
    brands are Dr Pepper, 7UP, Sunkist, A&W and Canada Dry, and
    we also sell regional and smaller niche brands. In the CSD
    market segment we are primarily a manufacturer of beverage
    concentrates and fountain syrups. Beverage concentrates are
    highly concentrated proprietary flavors used to make syrup or
    finished beverages. We manufacture beverage concentrates that
    are used by our own bottling operations as well as sold to third
    party bottling companies. According to The Nielsen Company, we
    had a 19.7% share of the United States CSD market segment in
    2008 (measured by retail sales), which increased from 19.4% in
    2007. We also manufacture fountain syrup that we sell to the
    foodservice industry directly, through bottlers or through third
    parties.


 


    In the NCB market segment in the United States, we participate
    primarily in the
    ready-to-drink
    tea, juice, juice drinks and mixer categories. Our key NCB
    brands are Snapple, Mott’s, Hawaiian Punch and Clamato, and
    we also sell regional and smaller niche brands. We manufacture
    most of our NCBs as
    ready-to-drink
    beverages and distribute them through our own distribution
    network and through third parties or direct to our
    customers’ warehouses. In addition to NCB beverages, we
    also manufacture Mott’s apple sauce as a finished product.


 


    In Mexico and the Caribbean, we participate primarily in the
    carbonated mineral water, flavored CSD, bottled water and
    vegetable juice categories. Our key brands in Mexico include
    Peñafiel, Squirt, Clamato and Aguafiel. In Mexico, we
    manufacture and sell our brands through both our own bottling
    operations and third party bottlers, as we do in our United
    States CSD business. In the Caribbean, we distribute our
    products solely through third party distributors and bottlers.



    
    3



Table of Contents




    In 2008, we bottled
    and/or
    distributed approximately 44% of our total products sold in the
    United States (as measured by volume). In addition, our bottling
    and distribution businesses distribute a variety of brands owned
    by third parties in specified licensed geographic territories.


 



    Our
    Strengths


 


    The key strengths of our business are:


 


    Strong portfolio of leading, consumer-preferred
    brands.  We own a diverse portfolio of well-known
    CSD and NCB brands. Many of our brands enjoy high levels of
    consumer awareness, preference and loyalty rooted in their rich
    heritage, which drive their market positions. Our diverse
    portfolio provides our bottlers, distributors and retailers with
    a wide variety of products and provides us with a platform for
    growth and profitability. We are the #1 flavored CSD
    company in the United States. In addition, we are the only major
    beverage concentrate manufacturer with
    year-over-year
    market share growth in the CSD market segment in each of the
    last five years. Our largest brand, Dr Pepper, is the #2
    flavored CSD in the United States, according to The Nielsen
    Company, and our Snapple brand is a leading
    ready-to-drink
    tea. Overall, in 2008, more than 75% of our volume was generated
    by brands that hold either the #1 or #2 position in
    their category. The strength of our key brands has allowed us to
    launch innovations and brand extensions such as Dr Pepper
    Cherry, 7UP Cherry Antioxidant, Canada Dry Green Tea Ginger Ale,
    Mott’s for Tots and Snapple value teas.


 


    Integrated business model.  We believe our
    brand ownership, bottling and distribution are more integrated
    than the United States operations of our principal competitors
    and that this differentiation provides us with a competitive
    advantage. Our integrated business model strengthens our
    route-to-market
    by creating a third consolidated bottling system, our Bottling
    Group, in addition to the
    Coca-Cola
    affiliated and PepsiCo affiliated systems. Our bottling system
    enables us to improve focus on our brands, especially certain of
    our brands such as 7UP, Sunkist, A&W and Snapple, which do
    not have a large presence in the
    Coca-Cola
    affiliated and PepsiCo affiliated bottler systems. Our
    integrated business model also provides opportunities for net
    sales and profit growth through the alignment of the economic
    interests of our brand ownership and our bottling and
    distribution businesses. For example, we can focus on maximizing
    profitability for our company as a whole rather than focusing on
    profitability generated from either the sale of concentrates or
    the bottling and distribution of our products. Additionally, our
    integrated business model enables us to be more flexible and
    responsive to the changing needs of our large retail customers
    by coordinating sales, service, distribution, promotions and
    product launches and allows us to more fully leverage our scale
    and reduce costs by creating greater geographic manufacturing
    and distribution coverage.


 


    Strong customer relationships.  Our brands have
    enjoyed long-standing relationships with many of our top
    customers. We sell our products to a wide range of customers,
    from bottlers and distributors to national retailers, large
    foodservice and convenience store customers. We have strong
    relationships with some of the largest bottlers and
    distributors, including those affiliated with
    Coca-Cola
    and PepsiCo, some of the largest and most important retailers,
    including Wal-Mart, Safeway, Kroger and Target, some of the
    largest food service customers, including McDonald’s, Yum!
    Brands and Burger King, and convenience store customers,
    including 7-Eleven. Our portfolio of strong brands, operational
    scale and experience across beverage segments has enabled us to
    maintain strong relationships with our customers.


 


    Attractive positioning within a large and profitable
    market.  We hold the #1 position in the
    United States flavored CSD beverage markets by volume according
    to Beverage Digest. We are also a leader in Canada and Mexico
    beverage markets. We believe that these markets are
    well-positioned to benefit from emerging consumer trends such as
    the need for convenience and the demand for products with health
    and wellness benefits. Our portfolio of products is biased
    toward flavored CSDs, which continue to gain market share versus
    cola CSDs, as well as growing categories such as teas, energy
    drinks and juices.


 


    Broad geographic manufacturing and distribution
    coverage.  As of December 31, 2008, we had 20
    manufacturing facilities and approximately 200 distribution
    centers in the United States, as well as four manufacturing
    facilities and approximately 25 distribution centers in Mexico.
    These facilities use a variety of manufacturing processes. We
    have strategically located manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities, enabling us to better align our operations with
    our customers, reduce transportation costs and have greater
    control over



    
    4



Table of Contents




    the timing and coordination of new product launches. In
    addition, our warehouses are generally located at or near
    bottling plants and geographically dispersed to ensure our
    products are available to meet consumer demand. We actively
    manage transportation of our products using our own fleet of
    more than 5,000 delivery trucks, as well as third party
    logistics providers on a selected basis.


 


    Strong operating margins and stable cash
    flows.  The breadth of our brand portfolio has
    enabled us to generate strong operating margins which have
    delivered stable cash flows. These cash flows enable us to
    consider a variety of alternatives, such as investing in our
    business and reducing debt.


 


    Experienced executive management team.  Our
    executive management team has over 200 years of collective
    experience in the food and beverage industry. The team has broad
    experience in brand ownership, bottling and distribution, and
    enjoys strong relationships both within the industry and with
    major customers. In addition, our management team has diverse
    skills that support our operating strategies, including driving
    organic growth through targeted and efficient marketing,
    reducing operating costs, enhancing distribution efficiencies,
    aligning manufacturing, bottling and distribution interests and
    executing strategic acquisitions.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    The key elements of our business strategy are to:


 


    Build and enhance leading brands.  We have a
    well-defined portfolio strategy to allocate our marketing and
    sales resources. We use an on-going process of market and
    consumer analysis to identify key brands that we believe have
    the greatest potential for profitable sales growth. We intend to
    continue to invest most heavily in our key brands to drive
    profitable and sustainable growth by strengthening consumer
    awareness, developing innovative products and brand extensions
    to take advantage of evolving consumer trends, improving
    distribution and increasing promotional effectiveness.


 


    Focus on opportunities in high growth and high margin
    categories.  We are focused on driving growth in
    our business in selected profitable and emerging categories.
    These categories include
    ready-to-drink
    teas, energy drinks and other beverages. We also intend to
    capitalize on opportunities in these categories through brand
    extensions, new product launches and selective acquisitions of
    brands and distribution rights. For example, we believe we are
    well-positioned to enter into new distribution agreements for
    emerging, high-growth third party brands in new categories that
    can use our bottling and distribution network. We can provide
    these new brands with distribution capability and resources to
    grow, and they provide us with exposure to growing segments of
    the market with relatively low risk and capital investment.


 


    Increase presence in high margin channels and
    packages.  We are focused on improving our product
    presence in high margin channels, such as convenience stores,
    vending machines and small independent retail outlets, through
    increased selling activity and significant investments in
    coolers and other cold drink equipment. We intend to
    significantly increase the number of our branded coolers and
    other cold drink equipment over the next few years, which we
    believe will provide an attractive return on investment. We also
    intend to increase demand for high margin products like
    single-serve packages for many of our key brands through
    increased promotional activity.


 


    Leverage our integrated business model.  We
    believe our integrated brand ownership, bottling and
    distribution business model provides us opportunities for net
    sales and profit growth through the alignment of the economic
    interests of our brand ownership and our bottling and
    distribution businesses. We intend to leverage our integrated
    business model to reduce costs by creating greater geographic
    manufacturing and distribution coverage and to be more flexible
    and responsive to the changing needs of our large retail
    customers by coordinating sales, service, distribution,
    promotions and product launches. For example, we intend to
    concentrate more of our manufacturing in multi-product, regional
    manufacturing facilities, including opening a new plant in
    Southern California and investing in expanded capabilities in
    several of our existing facilities within the next several years.


 


    Strengthen our
    route-to-market.  In
    the near term, strengthening our
    route-to-market
    will ensure the ongoing health of our brands. We are rolling out
    handheld technology and upgrading our IT infrastructure to



    
    5



Table of Contents




    improve route productivity and data integrity and standards.
    With third party bottlers, we continue to deliver programs that
    maintain priority for our brands in their systems.


 


    Improve operating efficiency.  We completed a
    series of restructurings in our organization from 2006 to 2008.
    We believe these restructurings have reduced our selling,
    general and administrative expenses and improved our operating
    efficiency. In addition, the integration of acquisitions into
    our Bottling Group has created the opportunity to improve our
    manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations. For
    example, we have been able to create multi-product manufacturing
    facilities (such as our Irving, Texas facility) which provide a
    region with a wide variety of our products at reduced
    transportation and co-packing costs.


 



    Our
    Business Operations


 


    As of December 31, 2008, our operating structure included
    four business segments: Beverage Concentrates, Finished Goods,
    Bottling Group and Mexico and the Caribbean. Segment financial
    data for 2008, 2007 and 2006, including financial information
    about foreign and domestic operations, is included in
    Note 23 of the Notes to our Audited Consolidated Financial
    Statements.


 



    Beverage
    Concentrates


 


    Our Beverage Concentrates segment is principally a brand
    ownership business. In this segment we manufacture beverage
    concentrates and syrups in the United States and Canada. Most of
    the brands in this segment are CSD brands. In 2008, our Beverage
    Concentrates segment had net sales of approximately
    $1.4 billion before the elimination of intersegment
    transactions. Key brands include Dr Pepper, 7UP, Sunkist,
    A&W, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Squirt, RC, Crush, Diet Rite,
    Sundrop, Welch’s, Vernors and Country Time and the
    concentrate form of Hawaiian Punch.


 


    We are the industry leader in flavored CSDs with a 38.4% market
    share in the United States for 2008, as measured by retail sales
    according to The Nielsen Company. We are also the third largest
    CSD brand owner as measured by 2008 retail sales in the United
    States and Canada and we own a leading brand in most of the CSD
    categories in which we compete.


 


    Almost all of our beverage concentrates are manufactured at our
    plant in St. Louis, Missouri. The beverage concentrates are
    shipped to third party bottlers, as well as to our own Bottling
    Group, who combine the beverage concentrates with carbonation,
    water, sweeteners and other ingredients, package it in PET,
    glass bottles and aluminum cans, and sell it as a finished
    beverage to retailers. Concentrate prices historically have been
    reviewed and adjusted at least on an annual basis.


 


    Syrup is shipped to fountain customers, such as fast food
    restaurants, who mix the syrup with water and carbonation to
    create a finished beverage at the point of sale to consumers. Dr
    Pepper represents most of our fountain channel volume.


 


    Our Beverage Concentrates brands are sold by our bottlers,
    including our own Bottling Group, through all major retail
    channels including supermarkets, fountains, mass merchandisers,
    club stores, vending machines, convenience stores, gas stations,
    small groceries, drug chains and dollar stores. Unlike the
    majority of our other CSD brands, 73% of Dr Pepper volumes are
    distributed through the
    Coca-Cola
    affiliated and PepsiCo affiliated bottler systems.


 


    Coca-Cola
    and Pepsi affiliated systems each constituted approximately 15%
    of the net sales of our Beverage Concentrates segment.


 



    Finished
    Goods


 


    Our Finished Goods segment is principally a brand ownership and
    a bottling business and, to a lesser extent, a distribution
    business. In this segment, we primarily manufacture and
    distribute finished beverages and other products in the United
    States and Canada. Most of the beverages in this segment are
    NCBs, such as
    ready-to-drink
    teas, juice and juice drinks. Most of our sales of Snapple are
    included in the Finished Goods segment. In 2008, our Finished
    Goods segment had net sales of approximately $1.6 billion
    before the elimination of intersegment



    
    6



Table of Contents




    transactions. Key brands include Snapple, Mott’s, Hawaiian
    Punch, Clamato, Nantucket Nectars, Venom Energy, Yoo-Hoo,
    Orangina, Mistic, Mr and Mrs T, Rose’s, Margaritaville,
    Stewart’s and IBC.


 


    We are a leading manufacturer of NCBs by retail sales in the
    United States, according to The Nielsen Company.


 


    Our Finished Goods products are manufactured in several
    facilities across the United States and are distributed to
    retailers and their warehouses by our own distribution network
    or third party distributors. The raw materials used to
    manufacture our finished beverages include aluminum cans and
    ends, glass bottles, PET bottles and caps, paper products,
    sweeteners, juices, water and other ingredients.


 


    We sell our Finished Goods brands through all major retail
    channels, including supermarkets, fountains, mass merchandisers,
    club stores, vending machines, convenience stores, gas stations,
    small groceries, drug chains and dollar stores. In 2008,
    Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., the largest customer of our Finished
    Goods segment, accounted for approximately 18% of our net sales
    in this segment.


 



    Bottling
    Group


 


    Our Bottling Group segment is principally a bottling and
    distribution business. In this segment, we manufacture and
    distribute finished beverages, including our brands, third party
    owned brands and certain private label beverages in the United
    States. In 2008, our Bottling Group segment had net sales of
    approximately $3.1 billion before the elimination of
    intersegment transactions.


 


    Approximately 89% of our 2008 Bottling Group net sales of
    branded products come from our own brands, such as Dr Pepper,
    7UP, Snapple, Sunkist, A&W and Canada Dry, with the
    remaining from the distribution of third party brands such as
    FIJI mineral water and Arizona tea. In addition, a small portion
    of our Bottling Group sales come from bottling beverages and
    other products for private label owners or others for a fee.
    Although the majority of our Bottling Group’s net sales
    relate to our brands, we also provide a
    route-to-market
    for third party brand owners seeking effective distribution for
    their new and emerging brands. These brands give us exposure in
    certain markets to fast growing segments of the beverage
    industry with minimal capital investment.


 


    Our Bottling Group products are manufactured in several
    facilities across the United States and sold to retailers. The
    raw materials used to manufacture our products are concentrates,
    sweeteners and other ingredients, aluminum cans and ends, PET,
    glass bottles, paper products and water.


 


    The majority of the Bottling Group’s sales are through
    direct store delivery supported by a fleet of more than 5,000
    trucks and approximately 12,000 employees, including sales
    representatives, merchandisers, drivers and warehouse workers.
    Our Bottling Group’s product portfolio is sold within the
    United States through approximately 200,000 retailer accounts
    across all major retail channels. In 2008, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
    accounted for approximately 11% of our Bottling Group’s net
    sales.


 



    Mexico
    and the Caribbean


 


    Our Mexico and the Caribbean segment is a brand ownership and a
    bottling and distribution business. This segment participates
    mainly in the carbonated mineral water, flavored CSD, bottled
    water and vegetable juice categories, with particular strength
    in carbonated mineral water and grapefruit flavored CSDs. In
    2008, our Mexico and the Caribbean segment had net sales of
    $427 million with our operations in Mexico representing
    approximately 90% of the net sales of this segment. Key brands
    include Peñafiel, Squirt, Clamato and Aguafiel.


 


    In Mexico, we manufacture and distribute our products through
    our bottling operations and third party bottlers and
    distributors. In the Caribbean, we distribute our products
    through third party bottlers and distributors. In Mexico, we
    also participate in a joint venture to manufacture Aguafiel
    brand water with Acqua Minerale San Benedetto. We provide
    expertise in the Mexican beverage market and Acqua Minerale
    San Benedetto provides expertise in water production and
    new packaging technologies.


 


    We sell our finished beverages through all major Mexican retail
    channels, including the “mom and pop” stores,
    supermarkets, hypermarkets, and on premise channels.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    Bottler
    and Distributor Agreements


 


    In the United States and Canada, we generally grant perpetual,
    exclusive license agreements for CSD brands and packages to
    bottlers for specific geographic areas. These agreements
    prohibit bottlers from selling the licensed products outside
    their exclusive territory and selling any imitative products in
    that territory. Generally, we may terminate bottling agreements
    only for cause and the bottler may terminate without cause upon
    giving certain specified notice and complying with other
    applicable conditions. Fountain agreements for bottlers
    generally are not exclusive for a territory, but do restrict
    bottlers from carrying imitative product in the territory. Many
    of our brands such as Snapple, Mistic, Stewart’s, Nantucket
    Nectars, Yoo-Hoo and Orangina, are licensed for distribution in
    various territories to bottlers and a number of smaller
    distributors such as beer wholesalers, wine and spirit
    distributors, independent distributors and retail brokers. We
    may terminate some of these distribution agreements only for
    cause and the distributor may terminate without cause upon
    certain notice and other conditions. Either party may terminate
    some of the other distribution agreements without cause upon
    giving certain specified notice and complying with other
    applicable conditions.


 



    Customers


 


    We primarily serve two groups of customers: 1) bottlers and
    distributors and 2) retailers.


 


    Bottlers buy beverage concentrates from us and, in turn, they
    manufacture, bottle, sell and distribute finished beverages.
    Bottlers also manufacture and distribute syrup for the fountain
    foodservice channel. In addition, bottlers and distributors
    purchase finished beverages from us and sell them to retail and
    other customers. We have strong relationships with bottlers
    affiliated with
    Coca-Cola
    and PepsiCo primarily because of the strength and market
    position of our key Dr Pepper brand.


 


    Retailers also buy finished beverages directly from us. Our
    portfolio of strong brands, operational scale and experience in
    the beverage industry has enabled us to maintain strong
    relationships with major retailers in the United States, Canada
    and Mexico. In 2008, our largest retailer was Wal-Mart Stores,
    Inc., representing approximately 11% of our net sales.


 



    Seasonality


 


    The beverage market is subject to some seasonal variations. Our
    beverage sales are generally higher during the warmer months and
    also can be influenced by the timing of holidays as well as
    weather fluctuations.


 



    Competition


 


    The liquid refreshment beverage industry is highly competitive
    and continues to evolve in response to changing consumer
    preferences. Competition is generally based upon brand
    recognition, taste, quality, price, availability, selection and
    convenience. We compete with multinational corporations with
    significant financial resources. Our two largest competitors in
    the liquid refreshment beverage market are
    Coca-Cola
    and PepsiCo, each representing more than 30% of the
    U.S. liquid refreshment beverage market by volume,
    according to Beverage Digest. We also compete against other
    large companies, including Nestlé, S.A. and Kraft Foods,
    Inc. As a bottler, we compete with bottlers such as
    Coca-Cola
    Enterprises, Pepsi Bottling Group and PepsiAmericas and a number
    of smaller bottlers and distributors. We also compete with a
    variety of smaller, regional and private label manufacturers,
    such as Cott Corp. We have lower exposure to some of the faster
    growing non-carbonated and bottled water segments in the overall
    liquid refreshment beverage market and as a result, although we
    have increased our market share in the overall United States CSD
    market, we have lost share in the overall United States liquid
    refreshment beverage market over the past several years. In
    Canada and Mexico, we compete with many of these same
    international companies as well as a number of regional
    competitors.


 



    Intellectual
    Property and Trademarks


 


    Our Intellectual Property.  We possess a
    variety of intellectual property rights that are important to
    our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks,
    copyrights, patents and trade secrets to safeguard our
    proprietary rights, including our brands and ingredient and
    production formulas for our products.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    Our Trademarks.  Our trademark portfolio
    includes more than 2,000 registrations and applications in the
    United States, Canada, Mexico and other countries. Brands we own
    through various subsidiaries in various jurisdictions include Dr
    Pepper, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, RC, Schweppes, Squirt, Crush,
    Peñafiel, Aguafiel, Snapple, Mott’s, Hawaiian Punch,
    Clamato, Mistic, Nantucket Nectars, Mr & Mrs T,
    ReaLemon, Venom and Deja Blue. We own trademark registrations
    for all of these brands in the United States, and we own
    trademark registrations for some but not all of these brands in
    Canada and Mexico. We also own a number of smaller regional
    brands. Some of our other trademark registrations are in
    countries where we do not currently have any significant level
    of business. In addition, in many countries outside the United
    States, Canada and Mexico, our rights in many of our
    brands, including our Dr Pepper trademark and formula, have been
    sold to third parties including, in certain cases, to
    competitors such as
    Coca-Cola.


 


    Trademarks Licensed from Others.  We license
    various trademarks from third parties, which licenses generally
    allow us to manufacture and distribute on a country-wide basis.
    For example, we license from third parties the Sunkist,
    Welch’s, Country Time, Orangina, Stewart’s,
    Rose’s, Holland House and Margaritaville trademarks.
    Although these licenses vary in length and other terms, they
    generally are long-term, cover the entire United States and
    include a royalty payment to the licensor.


 


    Licensed Distribution Rights.  We have rights
    in certain territories to bottle
    and/or
    distribute various brands we do not own, such as Arizona tea and
    FIJI mineral water. Some of these arrangements are relatively
    shorter in term, are limited in geographic scope and the
    licensor may be able to terminate the agreement upon an agreed
    period of notice, in some cases without payment to us.


 


    Intellectual Property We License to Others.  We
    license some of our intellectual property, including trademarks,
    to others. For example, we license the Dr Pepper trademark to
    certain companies for use in connection with food, confectionery
    and other products. We also license certain brands, such as Dr
    Pepper and Snapple, to third parties for use in beverages in
    certain countries where we own the brand but do not otherwise
    operate our business.


 


    Cadbury Schweppes Name.  We have removed
    “Cadbury” from the names of our companies after our
    separation from Cadbury. Cadbury can continue to use the
    “Schweppes” name as part of its companies’ names
    outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico (and for a
    transitional period, inside of the United States, Canada and
    Mexico).


 



    Marketing


 


    Our marketing strategy is to grow our brands through
    continuously providing new solutions to meet consumers’
    changing preferences and needs. We identify these preferences
    and needs and develop innovative solutions to address the
    opportunities. Solutions include new and reformulated products,
    improved packaging design, pricing and enhanced availability. We
    use advertising, media, merchandising, public relations and
    promotion to provide maximum impact for our brands and messages.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we operated 24 manufacturing
    facilities across the United States and Mexico. Almost all of
    our CSD beverage concentrates are manufactured at a single plant
    in St. Louis, Missouri. All of our manufacturing facilities
    are either regional manufacturing facilities, with the capacity
    and capabilities to manufacture many brands and packages,
    facilities with particular capabilities that are dedicated to
    certain brands or products, or smaller bottling plants with a
    more limited range of packaging capabilities. We intend to build
    and open a new, multi-product manufacturing facility in Southern
    California within the next two years.


 


    We employ approximately 5,000 full-time manufacturing
    employees in our facilities, including seasonal workers. We have
    a variety of production capabilities, including hot fill,
    cold-fill and aseptic bottling processes, and we manufacture
    beverages in a variety of packaging materials, including
    aluminum, glass and PET cans and bottles and a variety of
    package formats, including single-serve and multi-serve packages
    and
    “bag-in-box”
    fountain syrup packaging.


 


    In 2008, 88% of our manufactured volumes were related to our
    brands and 12% to third party and private-label products. We
    also use third party manufacturers to package our products for
    us on a limited basis.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    We owned property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated
    depreciation, totaling $935 million and $796 million
    in the United States and $55 million and $72 million
    in international locations as of December 31, 2008 and
    2007, respectively.


 



    Warehousing
    and Distribution


 


    As of December 31, 2008, our distribution network consisted
    of approximately 200 distribution centers in the United States
    and approximately 25 distribution centers in Mexico. Our
    warehouses are generally located at or near bottling plants and
    are geographically dispersed to ensure product is available to
    meet consumer demand. We actively manage transportation of our
    products using combination of our own fleet of more than 5,000
    delivery trucks, as well as third party logistics providers.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    The principal raw materials we use in our business are aluminum
    cans and ends, glass bottles, PET bottles and caps, paper
    products, sweeteners, juice, fruit, water and other ingredients.
    The cost of the raw materials can fluctuate substantially. In
    addition, we are significantly impacted by changes in fuel costs
    due to the large truck fleet we operate in our distribution
    businesses.


 


    Under many of our supply arrangements for these raw materials,
    the price we pay fluctuates along with certain changes in
    underlying commodities costs, such as aluminum in the case of
    cans, natural gas in the case of glass bottles, resin in the
    case of PET bottles and caps, corn in the case of sweeteners and
    pulp in the case of paperboard packaging. Manufacturing costs
    for our Finished Goods segment, where we manufacture and bottle
    finished beverages, are higher as a percentage of our net sales
    than our Beverage Concentrates segment as the Finished Goods
    segment requires the purchase of a much larger portion of the
    packaging and ingredients. Although we have contracts with a
    relatively small number of suppliers, we have generally not
    experienced any difficulties in obtaining the required amount of
    raw materials.


 


    When appropriate, we mitigate the exposure to volatility in the
    prices of certain commodities used in our production process
    through the use of futures contracts and supplier pricing
    agreements. The intent of the contracts and agreements is to
    provide predictability in our operating margins and our overall
    cost structure.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Our research and development team is composed of scientists and
    engineers in the United States and Mexico who are focused on
    developing high quality products which have broad consumer
    appeal, can be sold at competitive prices and can be safely and
    consistently produced across a diverse manufacturing network.
    Our research and development team engages in activities relating
    to product development, microbiology, analytical chemistry,
    process engineering, sensory science, nutrition, knowledge
    management and regulatory compliance. We have particular
    expertise in flavors and sweeteners. Research and development
    costs amounted to $17 million in 2008 and totaled
    $14 million for each of 2007 and 2006, net of allocations
    to Cadbury. Additionally, we incurred packaging engineering
    costs of $4 million, $5 million, and $3 million
    for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These expenses are
    recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in our
    Consolidated Statements of Operations.


 



    Information
    Technology and Transaction Processing Services


 


    We use a variety of information technology (“IT”)
    systems and networks configured to meet our business needs.
    Prior to our separation from Cadbury, IT support was provided as
    a corporate service by Cadbury’s IT team and external
    suppliers. Post separation, we have formed our own standalone,
    dedicated IT function to support our business and have separated
    our systems, services and contracts from those of Cadbury. Our
    primary IT data center is hosted in Toronto, Canada by a third
    party provider. We also use two primary vendors for application
    support and maintenance, both of which are based in India and
    provide resources offshore and onshore.


 


    We use a business process outsourcing provider located in India
    to provide certain back office transactional processing
    services, including accounting, order entry and other
    transactional services.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Employees


 


    At December 31, 2008, we employed approximately
    20,000 full-time employees, including seasonal workers.


 


    In the United States, we have approximately
    17,000 full-time employees. We have many union collective
    bargaining agreements covering approximately
    5,000 full-time employees. Several agreements cover
    multiple locations. These agreements often address working
    conditions as well as wage rates and benefits. In Mexico and the
    Caribbean, we employ approximately 3,000 full-time
    employees and are also party to collective bargaining
    agreements. We do not have a significant number of employees in
    Canada.


 


    We believe we have good relations with our employees.


 



    Regulatory
    Matters


 


    We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and
    regulations in the countries in which we do business.
    Regulations apply to many aspects of our business including our
    products and their ingredients, manufacturing, safety, labeling,
    transportation, recycling, advertising and sale. For example,
    our products, and their manufacturing, labeling, marketing and
    sale in the United States are subject to various aspects of the
    Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Federal Trade
    Commission Act, the Lanham Act, state consumer protection laws
    and state warning and labeling laws. In Canada and Mexico, the
    manufacture, distribution, marketing and sale of our many
    products are also subject to similar statutes and regulations.


 


    We and our bottlers use various refillable and non-refillable,
    recyclable bottles and cans in the United States and other
    countries. Various states and other authorities require
    deposits, eco-taxes or fees on certain containers. Similar
    legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at
    local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and
    elsewhere. In Mexico, the government has encouraged the soft
    drinks industry to comply voluntarily with collection and
    recycling programs of plastic material, and we have taken steps
    to comply with these programs.


 



    Environmental,
    Health and Safety Matters


 


    In the normal course of our business, we are subject to a
    variety of federal, state and local environment, health and
    safety laws and regulations. We maintain environmental, health
    and safety policies and a quality, environmental, health and
    safety program designed to ensure compliance with applicable
    laws and regulations. The cost of such compliance measures does
    not have a material financial impact on our operations.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our web site address is www.drpeppersnapplegroup.com. We make
    available, free of charge through this web site, our annual
    reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such material is electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.


 



    Market
    and Industry Data


 


    The market and industry data in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    is from independent industry sources, including The Nielsen
    Company and Beverage Digest. Although we believe that these
    independent sources are reliable, we have not verified the
    accuracy or completeness of this data or any assumptions
    underlying such data.


 


    The Nielsen Company is a marketing information provider,
    primarily serving consumer packaged goods manufacturers and
    retailers. We use The Nielsen Company data as our primary
    management tool to track market performance because it has broad
    and deep data coverage, is based on consumer transactions at
    retailers, and is reported to us monthly. The Nielsen Company
    data provides measurement and analysis of marketplace trends
    such as market share, retail pricing, promotional activity and
    distribution across various channels, retailers and geographies.
    Measured categories provided to us by The Nielsen Company
    Scantrack include flavored (non-cola) carbonated soft drinks
    (“CSDs”), energy drinks, single-serve bottled water,
    non-alcoholic mixers and non-carbonated beverages, including
    ready-to-drink
    teas, single-serve and multi-serve juice and juice drinks, and



    
    11



Table of Contents




    sports drinks. The Nielsen Company also provides data on other
    food items such as apple sauce. The Nielsen Company data we
    present in this report is from The Nielsen Company’s
    Scantrack service, which compiles data based on scanner
    transactions in certain sales channels, including grocery
    stores, mass merchandisers, drug chains, convenience stores and
    gas stations. However, this data does not include the fountain
    or vending channels, Wal-Mart or small independent retail
    outlets, which together represent a meaningful portion of the
    United States liquid refreshment beverage market and of our net
    sales and volume.


 


    Beverage Digest is an independent beverage research company that
    publishes an annual Beverage Digest Fact Book. We use Beverage
    Digest primarily to track market share information and broad
    beverage and channel trends. This annual publication provides a
    compilation of data supplied by beverage companies. Beverage
    Digest covers the following categories: CSDs, energy drinks,
    bottled water and non-carbonated beverages (including
    ready-to-drink
    teas, juice and juice drinks and sports drinks). Beverage Digest
    data does not include multi-serve juice products or bottled
    water in packages of 1.5 liters or more. Data is reported
    for certain sales channels, including grocery stores, mass
    merchandisers, club stores, drug chains, convenience stores, gas
    stations, fountains, vending machines and the
    “up-and-down-the-street”
    channel consisting of small independent retail outlets.


 


    We use both The Nielsen Company and Beverage Digest to assess
    both our own and our competitors’ performance and market
    share in the United States. Different market share rankings can
    result for a specific beverage category depending on whether
    data from The Nielsen Company or Beverage Digest is used, in
    part because of the differences in the sales channels reported
    by each source. For example, because the fountain channel (where
    we have a relatively small business except for Dr Pepper) is not
    included in The Nielsen Company data, our market share using The
    Nielsen Company data is generally higher for our CSD portfolio
    than the Beverage Digest data, which does include the fountain
    channel.


 


    In this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    all information regarding the beverage market in the United
    States is from Beverage Digest, and, except as otherwise
    indicated, is from 2007. All information regarding our brand
    market positions in the U.S. is from The Nielsen Company
    and is based on retail dollar sales in 2008.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 


    In addition to the other information set forth in this report,
    you should carefully consider the risks described below which
    could materially affect our business, financial condition, or
    future results. Any of the following risks, as well as other
    risks and uncertainties, could harm our business and financial
    condition.


 



    We
    operate in highly competitive markets.


 


    Our industry is highly competitive. We compete with
    multinational corporations with significant financial resources,
    including
    Coca-Cola
    and PepsiCo and their related affiliated systems. These
    competitors can use their resources and scale to rapidly respond
    to competitive pressures and changes in consumer preferences by
    introducing new products, reducing prices or increasing
    promotional activities. We also compete against a variety of
    smaller, regional and private label manufacturers. Smaller
    companies may be more innovative, better able to bring new
    products to market and better able to quickly exploit and serve
    niche markets. Our inability to compete effectively could result
    in a decline in our sales. As a result, we may have to reduce
    our prices or increase our spending on marketing, advertising
    and product innovation. Any of these could negatively affect our
    business and financial performance.


 



    We may
    not effectively respond to changing consumer preferences,
    trends, health concerns and other factors.


 


    Consumers’ preferences can change due to a variety of
    factors, including aging of the population, social trends,
    negative publicity, economic downturn or other factors. For
    example, consumers are increasingly concerned about health and
    wellness, and demand for regular CSDs has decreased as consumers
    have shifted towards low or no calorie soft drinks and,
    increasingly, to NCBs, such as water,
    ready-to-drink
    teas and sports drinks. If we do not effectively anticipate
    these trends and changing consumer preferences, then quickly
    develop new products in



    
    12



Table of Contents




    response, our sales could suffer. Developing and launching new
    products can be risky and expensive. We may not be successful in
    responding to changing markets and consumer preferences, and
    some of our competitors may be better able to respond to these
    changes, either of which could negatively affect our business
    and financial performance.


 



    We
    depend on a small number of large retailers for a significant
    portion of our sales.


 


    Food and beverage retailers in the United States have been
    consolidating, resulting in large, sophisticated retailers with
    increased buying power. They are in a better position to resist
    our price increases and demand lower prices. They also have
    leverage to require us to provide larger, more tailored
    promotional and product delivery programs. If we and our
    bottlers and distributors do not successfully provide
    appropriate marketing, product, packaging, pricing and service
    to these retailers, our product availability, sales and margins
    could suffer. Certain retailers make up a significant percentage
    of our products’ retail volume, including volume sold by
    our bottlers and distributors. For example, Wal-Mart Stores,
    Inc., the largest retailer of our products, represented
    approximately 11% of our net sales in 2008. Some retailers also
    offer their own private label products that compete with some of
    our brands. The loss of sales of any of our products in a major
    retailer could have a material adverse effect on our business
    and financial performance.


 



    We
    depend on third party bottling and distribution companies for a
    substantial portion of our business.


 


    We generate a substantial portion of our net sales from sales of
    beverage concentrates to third party bottling companies. During
    2008, approximately two-thirds of our beverage concentrates
    volume was sold to bottlers that we do not own. Some of these
    bottlers are partly owned by our competitors, and much of their
    business comes from selling our competitors’ products. In
    addition, some of the products we manufacture are distributed by
    third parties. As independent companies, these bottlers and
    distributors make their own business decisions. They may have
    the right to determine whether, and to what extent, they produce
    and distribute our products, our competitors’ products and
    their own products. They may devote more resources to other
    products or take other actions detrimental to our brands. In
    most cases, they are able to terminate their bottling and
    distribution arrangements with us without cause. We may need to
    increase support for our brands in their territories and may not
    be able to pass on price increases to them. Their financial
    condition could also be adversely affected by conditions beyond
    our control and our business could suffer. Deteriorating
    economic conditions could negatively impact the financial
    viability of third party bottlers. Any of these factors could
    negatively affect our business and financial performance.


 



    Determinations
    in the future that a significant impairment of the value of our
    goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets has
    occurred could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    performance.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had $8.6 billion of total
    assets, of which approximately $5.7 billion were intangible
    assets. Intangible assets include goodwill, and other intangible
    assets in connection with brands, bottler agreements,
    distribution rights and customer relationships. We conduct
    impairment tests on goodwill and all indefinite lived intangible
    assets annually, as of December 31, or more frequently if
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
    not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of an intangible
    asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized
    in an amount equal to that excess. Our annual impairment
    analysis, performed as of December 31, 2008, resulted in
    pre-tax non-cash impairment charges of $1,039 million. For
    additional information about these intangible assets, see
    “Critical Accounting Estimates — Goodwill and
    Other Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets” in Item 7
    and our audited consolidated financial statements included in
    Item 8 in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    The impairment tests require us to make an estimate of the fair
    value of intangible assets. Since a number of factors may
    influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, we
    are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other
    indefinite lived intangibles will occur in the future. Any such
    impairment would result in us recognizing a charge to our
    operating results, which may adversely affect our financial
    performance.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    We
    have a significant amount of outstanding debt, which could
    adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our
    obligations.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was
    $3,524 million. This significant amount of debt could have
    important consequences to us and our investors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations
    to make interest payments on this debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and the industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that
    may not be as highly leveraged with debt as we are; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or
    take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash
    dividends or repurchase common stock.





 


    To the extent we become more leveraged or experience
    deteriorating economic conditions, the risks described above
    would increase. Additionally, it may become more difficult to
    satisfy debt service and other obligations, the cash flow
    available to fund capital expenditures, other corporate purposes
    and to grow our business could be reduced and the future credit
    ratings of our debt could be downgraded, which could increase
    future debt costs. Our actual cash requirements in the future
    may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may
    not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding
    debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money,
    sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at
    all, to refinance our debt.


 


    In addition, the credit agreement governing our debt contains
    covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur
    debt at subsidiaries that are not guarantors, incur liens, merge
    or sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially
    all of our assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees
    and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates and
    enter into agreements restricting our ability to incur liens or
    the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions. The
    agreement also requires us to comply with certain affirmative
    and financial covenants.


 



    Our
    financial results may be negatively impacted by the recent
    global financial events.


 


    The recent global financial events have resulted in the
    consolidation, failure or near failure of a number of
    institutions in the banking, insurance and investment banking
    industries and have substantially reduced the ability of
    companies to obtain financing. These events have also led to a
    substantial reduction in stock market valuations. These events
    could have a number of different effects on our business,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a reduction in consumer spending, which could result in a
    reduction in our sales volume;




 



     
        • 

    
    a negative impact on the ability of our customers to timely pay
    their obligations to us, thus reducing our cash flow, or our
    vendors to timely supply materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    an increase in counterparty risk;




 



     
        • 

    
    an increased likelihood that one or more of our banking
    syndicates may be unable to honor its commitments under our
    revolving credit facility; and




 



     
        • 

    
    restricted access to capital markets that may limit our ability
    to take advantage of business opportunities, such as
    acquisitions.





 


    Other events or conditions may arise directly or indirectly from
    the global financial events that could negatively impact our
    business.


 



    Litigation
    or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities
    and damage our reputation.


 


    We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings.
    We evaluate these claims and proceedings to assess the
    likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible,
    the amount of potential losses. We may establish a reserve as
    appropriate based upon assessments and estimates in accordance
    with our accounting policies.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the
    information available to us at the time and rely on legal and
    management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ
    materially from assessments and estimates. Actual settlements,
    judgments or resolutions of these claims or proceedings may
    negatively affect our business and financial performance. For
    more information, see Note 22 of the Notes to our Audited
    Consolidated Financials Statements.


 



    Benefits
    cost increases could reduce our profitability.


 


    Our profitability is substantially affected by the costs of
    pension, postretirement and employee medical costs and employee
    other benefits. In recent years, these costs have increased
    significantly due to factors such as increases in health care
    costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and
    changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related
    liabilities. Although we actively seek to control increases in
    costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in
    limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in
    costs could have a material adverse affect on our business and
    financial performance.


 



    Costs
    for our raw materials may increase substantially.


 


    The principal raw materials we use in our business are aluminum
    cans and ends, glass bottles, PET bottles and caps, paperboard
    packaging, sweeteners, juice, fruit, water and other
    ingredients. Additionally, conversion of raw materials into our
    products for sale also uses electricity and natural gas. The
    cost of the raw materials can fluctuate substantially. We are
    significantly impacted by increases in fuel costs due to the
    large truck fleet we operate in our distribution businesses.
    Under many of our supply arrangements, the price we pay for raw
    materials fluctuates along with certain changes in underlying
    commodities costs, such as aluminum in the case of cans, natural
    gas in the case of glass bottles, resin in the case of PET
    bottles and caps, corn in the case of sweeteners and pulp in the
    case of paperboard packaging. Continued price increases could
    exert pressure on our costs and we may not be able to pass along
    any such increases to our customers or consumers, which could
    negatively affect our business and financial performance.


 



    Certain
    raw materials we use are available from a limited number of
    suppliers and shortages could occur.


 


    Some raw materials we use, such as aluminum cans and ends, glass
    bottles, PET bottles, sweeteners and other ingredients, are
    sourced from industries characterized by a limited supply base.
    If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our
    requirements, we could suffer shortages or substantial cost
    increases. Changing suppliers can require long lead times. The
    failure of our suppliers to meet our needs could occur for many
    reasons, including fires, natural disasters, weather,
    manufacturing problems, disease, crop failure, strikes,
    transportation interruption, government regulation, political
    instability and terrorism. A failure of supply could also occur
    due to suppliers’ financial difficulties, including
    bankruptcy. Some of these risks may be more acute where the
    supplier or its plant is located in riskier or less-developed
    countries or regions. Any significant interruption to supply or
    cost increase could substantially harm our business and
    financial performance.


 



    Substantial
    disruption to production at our manufacturing and distribution
    facilities could occur.


 


    A disruption in production at our beverage concentrates
    manufacturing facility, which manufactures almost all of our
    concentrates, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. In addition, a disruption could occur at any of our
    other facilities or those of our suppliers, bottlers or
    distributors. The disruption could occur for many reasons,
    including fire, natural disasters, weather, manufacturing
    problems, disease, strikes, transportation interruption,
    government regulation or terrorism. Alternative facilities with
    sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may
    cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start
    production, each of which could negatively affect our business
    and financial performance.


 



    Our
    facilities and operations may require substantial investment and
    upgrading.


 


    We have an ongoing program of investment and upgrading in our
    manufacturing, distribution and other facilities. We expect to
    incur substantial costs to upgrade or keep
    up-to-date
    various facilities and equipment or



    
    15



Table of Contents




    restructure our operations, including closing existing
    facilities or opening new ones. If our investment and
    restructuring costs are higher than anticipated or our business
    does not develop as anticipated to appropriately utilize new or
    upgraded facilities, our costs and financial performance could
    be negatively affected.


 



    We may
    not be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on
    satisfactory terms, or we could experience
    strikes.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, approximately 5,000 of our
    employees, many of whom are at our key manufacturing locations,
    were covered by collective bargaining agreements. These
    agreements typically expire every three to four years at various
    dates. We may not be able to renew our collective bargaining
    agreements on satisfactory terms or at all. This could result in
    strikes or work stoppages, which could impair our ability to
    manufacture and distribute our products and result in a
    substantial loss of sales. The terms of existing or renewed
    agreements could also significantly increase our costs or
    negatively affect our ability to increase operational efficiency.


 



    Our
    products may not meet health and safety standards or could
    become contaminated.


 


    We have adopted various quality, environmental, health and
    safety standards. However, our products may still not meet these
    standards or could otherwise become contaminated. A failure to
    meet these standards or contamination could occur in our
    operations or those of our bottlers, distributors or suppliers.
    This could result in expensive production interruptions, recalls
    and liability claims. Moreover, negative publicity could be
    generated from false, unfounded or nominal liability claims or
    limited recalls. Any of these failures or occurrences could
    negatively affect our business and financial performance.


 



    Our
    intellectual property rights could be infringed or we could
    infringe the intellectual property rights of others and adverse
    events regarding licensed intellectual property, including
    termination of distribution rights, could harm our
    business.


 


    We possess intellectual property that is important to our
    business. This intellectual property includes ingredient
    formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes
    and other trade secrets. See “Intellectual Property and
    Trademarks” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for more information. We and third parties, including
    competitors, could come into conflict over intellectual property
    rights. Litigation could disrupt our business, divert management
    attention and cost a substantial amount to protect our rights or
    defend ourselves against claims. We cannot be certain that the
    steps we take to protect our rights will be sufficient or that
    others will not infringe or misappropriate our rights. If we are
    unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brands,
    products and business could be harmed.


 


    We also license various trademarks from third parties and
    license our trademarks to third parties. In some countries,
    other companies own a particular trademark which we own in the
    United States, Canada or Mexico. For example, the Dr Pepper
    trademark and formula is owned by
    Coca-Cola in
    certain other countries. Adverse events affecting those third
    parties or their products could affect our use of the trademark
    and negatively impact our brands.


 


    In some cases, we license products from third parties which we
    distribute. The licensor may be able to terminate the license
    arrangement upon an agreed period of notice, in some cases
    without payment to us of any termination fee. The termination of
    any material license arrangement could adversely affect our
    business and financial performance. For example, in letters
    dated October 10, 2008, and December 11, 2008, we
    received formal notification from Hansen Natural Corporation,
    terminating our agreements to distribute Monster Energy as well
    as other Hansen’s beverage brands in certain markets in the
    United States and Mexico effective November 10, 2008, and
    January 26, 2009, respectively.


 



    We may
    not comply with applicable government laws and regulations and
    they could change.


 


    We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and
    regulations in the United States, Canada, Mexico and other
    countries in which we do business. These laws and regulations
    apply to many aspects of our business including the manufacture,
    safety, labeling, transportation, advertising and sale of our
    products. See “Regulatory Matters” in Item 1 of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for more information regarding many of these laws and
    regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could
    damage our reputation
    and/or
    result in regulatory actions



    
    16



Table of Contents




    with substantial penalties. In addition, any significant change
    in such laws or regulations or their interpretation, or the
    introduction of higher standards or more stringent laws or
    regulations could result in increased compliance costs or
    capital expenditures. For example, changes in recycling and
    bottle deposit laws or special taxes on soft drinks or
    ingredients could increase our costs. Regulatory focus on the
    health, safety and marketing of food products is increasing.
    Certain state warning and labeling laws, such as
    California’s “Prop 65,” which requires warnings
    on any product with substances that the state lists as
    potentially causing cancer or birth defects, could become
    applicable to our products. Some local and regional governments
    and school boards have enacted, or have proposed to enact,
    regulations restricting the sale of certain types of soft drinks
    in schools. Any violations or changes of regulations could have
    a material adverse effect on our profitability, or disrupt the
    production or distribution of our products, and negatively
    affect our business and financial performance.


 



    We may
    not realize benefits of acquisitions.


 


    We have recently acquired various bottling and distribution
    businesses and are integrating their operations into our
    business. We may pursue further acquisitions of independent
    bottlers, distributors and distribution rights to complement our
    existing capabilities and further expand the distribution of our
    brands. We may also pursue acquisition of brands and products to
    expand our brand portfolio. The failure to successfully
    identify, make and integrate acquisitions may impede the growth
    of our business. The timing or success of any acquisition and
    integration is uncertain, requires significant expenses, and
    diverts financial and managerial resources away from our
    existing businesses. We also may not be able to raise the
    substantial capital or debt required for acquisitions and
    integrations on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, even
    after an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully
    integrate an acquired business or brand or realize the
    anticipated benefits of an acquisition, all of which could have
    a negative effect on our business and financial performance.


 



    We
    could lose key personnel or may be unable to recruit qualified
    personnel.


 


    Our performance significantly depends upon the continued
    contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both
    individually and as a group, and our ability to retain and
    motivate them. Our officers and key personnel have many years of
    experience with us and in our industry and it may be difficult
    to replace them. If we lose key personnel or are unable to
    recruit qualified personnel, our operations and ability to
    manage our business may be adversely affected. We do not have
    “key person” life insurance for any of our executive
    officers or key employees.


 



    We
    depend on key information systems and third party service
    providers.


 


    We depend on key information systems to accurately and
    efficiently transact our business, provide information to
    management and prepare financial reports. We rely on third party
    providers for a number of key information systems and business
    processing services, including hosting our primary data center
    and processing various accounting, order entry and other
    transactional services. These systems and services are
    vulnerable to interruptions or other failures resulting from,
    among other things, natural disasters, terrorist attacks,
    software, equipment or telecommunications failures, processing
    errors, computer viruses, hackers, other security issues or
    supplier defaults. Security, backup and disaster recovery
    measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to avoid
    such disruptions or failures. Any disruption or failure of these
    systems or services could cause substantial errors, processing
    inefficiencies, security breaches, inability to use the systems
    or process transactions, loss of customers or other business
    disruptions, all of which could negatively affect our business
    and financial performance.


 



    Weather
    and climate changes could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may
    negatively impact the price or availability of raw materials,
    energy and fuel, and demand for our products. Unusually cool
    weather during the summer months may result in reduced demand
    for our products and have a negative effect on our business and
    financial performance.



    
    17



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    ITEM 1B