Item 1A. of
    this Report. We expect to minimize the impacts of declines in
    average customer usage through regulatory mechanisms which will
    partially decouple our revenue levels from sales volumes.


 


    The electric Customer Choice program in Michigan allows all of
    our electric customers to purchase their electricity from
    alternative electric suppliers of generation services, subject
    to limits. Customers choosing to purchase power from alternative
    electric suppliers represented approximately 3% of retail sales
    in 2009 and 2008, and 4% of such sales in 2007. Customers
    participating in the electric Customer Choice program consist
    primarily of industrial and commercial customers whose
    MPSC-authorized full service rates exceed their cost of service.
    MPSC rate orders and recent energy legislation enacted by the
    State of Michigan are phasing out the pricing disparity over
    five years and have placed a 10% cap on the total potential
    Customer Choice related migration, mitigating some of the
    unfavorable effects of electric Customer Choice on our financial
    performance. We expect that in 2010 customers choosing to
    purchase power from alternative electric suppliers will
    represent approximately 10% of retail sales. When market
    conditions are favorable, we sell power into the wholesale
    market, in order to lower costs to full-service customers.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    Competition in the regulated electric distribution business is
    primarily from the
    on-site
    generation of industrial customers and from distributed
    generation applications by industrial and commercial customers.
    We do not expect significant competition for distribution to any
    group of customers in the near term.


 



    GAS
    UTILITY


 



    Description


 


    Our Gas Utility segment consists of MichCon and Citizens.


 


    Revenue is generated by providing the following major classes of
    service: gas sales, end user transportation, intermediate
    transportation, and gas storage.


 



    Revenue
    by Service


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 




 


 


    (in Millions)


 



 






    Gas sales



 


    $


    1,443


 


 


    $


    1,824


 


 


    $


    1,536


 





    End user transportation



 


 


    144


 


 


 


    143


 


 


 


    140


 





    Intermediate transportation



 


 


    69


 


 


 


    73


 


 


 


    59


 





    Storage and other



 


 


    132


 


 


 


    112


 


 


 


    140


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total Revenue



 


    $


    1,788


 


 


    $


    2,152


 


 


    $


    1,875


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Gas sales — Includes the sale and delivery of
    natural gas primarily to residential and small-volume commercial
    and industrial customers.




 



     
        • 

    
    End user transportation — Gas delivery service
    provided primarily to large-volume commercial and industrial
    customers. Additionally, the service is provided to residential
    customers, and small-volume commercial and industrial customers
    who have elected to participate in our Customer Choice program.
    End user transportation customers purchase natural gas directly
    from producers or brokers and utilize our pipeline network to
    transport the gas to their facilities or homes.




 



     
        • 

    
    Intermediate transportation — Gas delivery
    service provided to producers, brokers and other gas companies
    that own the natural gas, but are not the ultimate consumers.
    Intermediate transportation customers utilize our gathering and
    high-pressure transmission system to transport the gas to
    storage fields, processing plants, pipeline interconnections or
    other locations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Storage and other — Includes revenues from gas
    storage, appliance maintenance, facility development and other
    energy-related services.





 


    Our gas sales, end user transportation and intermediate
    transportation volumes, revenues and net income are impacted by
    weather. Given the seasonal nature of our business, revenues and
    net income are concentrated in the first and fourth quarters of
    the calendar year. By the end of the first quarter, the heating
    season is largely over, and we typically realize substantially
    reduced revenues and earnings in the second quarter and losses
    in the third quarter.


 


    Our operations are not dependent upon a limited number of
    customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would not
    have a material adverse effect on our Gas Utility segment.


 



    Natural
    Gas Supply


 


    Our gas distribution system has a planned maximum daily send-out
    capacity of 2.6 Bcf, with approximately 67% of the volume
    coming from underground storage for 2009. Peak-use requirements
    are met through utilization of our storage facilities, pipeline
    transportation capacity, and purchased gas supplies. Because of
    our geographic diversity of supply and our pipeline
    transportation and storage capacity, we are able to reliably
    meet our supply requirements. We believe natural gas supply and
    pipeline capacity will be sufficiently available to meet market
    demands in the foreseeable future.




    
    11



Table of Contents





    We purchase natural gas supplies in the open market by
    contracting with producers and marketers, and we maintain a
    diversified portfolio of natural gas supply contracts. Supplier,
    producing region, quantity, and available transportation
    diversify our natural gas supply base. We obtain our natural gas
    supply from various sources in different geographic areas (Gulf
    Coast, Mid-Continent, Canada and Michigan) under agreements that
    vary in both pricing and terms. Gas supply pricing is generally
    tied to NYMEX and published price indices to approximate current
    market prices.


 


    We are directly connected to interstate pipelines, providing
    access to most of the major natural gas supply producing regions
    in the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and Canadian regions. Our
    primary long-term transportation supply contracts are as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Availability
    


 


 


    Contract
    


 




 


 


    (MMcf/d)


 


 


    Expiration


 



 






    TransCanada PipeLines Limited



 


 


    53


 


 


 


    2010


 





    Great Lakes Gas Transmission L.P. 



 


 


    30


 


 


 


    2010


 





    Vector Pipeline L.P. 



 


 


    50


 


 


 


    2012


 





    ANR Pipeline Company



 


 


    245


 


 


 


    2013


 





    Viking Gas Transmission Company



 


 


    51


 


 


 


    2013


 





    Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Company



 


 


    75


 


 


 


    2029


 








 



    Properties


 


    We own distribution, transmission and storage properties that
    are located in the State of Michigan. Our distribution system
    includes approximately 19,000 miles of distribution mains,
    approximately 1,177,000 service lines and approximately
    1,312,000 active meters. We own approximately 2,100 miles
    of transmission lines that deliver natural gas to the
    distribution districts and interconnect our storage fields with
    the sources of supply and the market areas.


 


    We own properties relating to four underground natural gas
    storage fields with an aggregate working gas storage capacity of
    approximately 132 Bcf. These facilities are important in
    providing reliable and cost-effective service to our customers.
    In addition, we sell storage services to third parties. Most of
    our distribution and transmission property is located on
    property owned by others and used by us through easements,
    permits or licenses. Substantially all of our property is
    subject to the lien of a mortgage.


 


    We own 666 miles of transportation and gathering
    (non-utility) pipelines in the northern lower peninsula of
    Michigan. We lease a portion of our pipeline system to the
    Vector Pipeline Partnership (an affiliate) through a
    capital-lease arrangement. See Note 19 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.


 



    Regulation


 


    MichCon’s business is subject to the regulatory
    jurisdiction of the MPSC, which issues orders pertaining to
    rates, recovery of certain costs, including the costs of
    regulatory assets, conditions of service, accounting and
    operating-related matters. MichCon’s MPSC-approved rates
    charged to customers have historically been designed to allow
    for the recovery of costs, plus an authorized rate of return on
    our investments. MichCon operates natural gas transportation and
    storage facilities in Michigan as intrastate facilities
    regulated by the MPSC and provides intrastate transportation and
    storage services pursuant to an MPSC-approved tariff. MichCon
    also provides interstate transportation and storage services in
    accordance with an Operating Statement on file with the FERC. We
    are subject to the requirements of other regulatory agencies
    with respect to safety, the environment and health.


 


    See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this Report.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Energy
    Assistance Program


 


    Energy assistance programs, funded by the federal government and
    the State of Michigan, remain critical to MichCon’s ability
    to control its uncollectible accounts receivable and collections
    expenses. MichCon’s uncollectible accounts receivable
    expense is directly affected by the level of government-funded
    assistance its qualifying customers receive. We work
    continuously with the State of Michigan and others to determine
    whether the share of funding allocated to our customers is
    representative of the number of low-income individuals in our
    service territory.


 



    Strategy
    and Competition


 


    Our strategy is to be the preferred provider of natural gas in
    Michigan. As a result of more efficient furnaces and appliances,
    and customer conservation due to high natural gas prices and
    economic conditions, we expect future sales volumes to decline.
    We expect to minimize the impacts of declines in usage through
    regulatory mechanisms we have requested in our current rate
    case, which will partially decouple our revenue levels from
    sales volumes. We continue to provide energy-related services
    that capitalize on our expertise, capabilities and efficient
    systems. We continue to focus on lowering our operating costs by
    improving operating efficiencies.


 


    Competition in the gas business primarily involves other natural
    gas providers, as well as providers of alternative fuels and
    energy sources. The primary focus of competition for end user
    transportation is cost and reliability. Some large commercial
    and industrial customers have the ability to switch to
    alternative fuel sources such as coal, electricity, oil and
    steam. If these customers were to choose an alternative fuel
    source, they would not have a need for our end-user
    transportation service. In addition, some of these customers
    could bypass our pipeline system and have their gas delivered
    directly from an interstate pipeline. We compete against
    alternative fuel sources by providing competitive pricing and
    reliable service, supported by our storage capacity.


 


    Our extensive transmission pipeline system has enabled us to
    market 400 to 500 Bcf annually for intermediate
    transportation services and storage services for Michigan gas
    producers, marketers, distribution companies and other pipeline
    companies. We operate in a central geographic location with
    connections to major Midwestern interstate pipelines that extend
    throughout the Midwest, eastern United States and eastern Canada.


 


    MichCon’s storage capacity is used to store natural gas for
    delivery to MichCon’s customers as well as sold to third
    parties, under a variety of arrangements for periods up to three
    years. Prices for storage arrangements for shorter periods are
    generally higher, but more volatile than for longer periods.
    Prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and natural
    gas pricing.


 



    GAS
    STORAGE AND PIPELINES


 



    Description


 


    Gas Storage and Pipelines owns partnership interests in two
    interstate transmission pipelines and two natural gas storage
    fields. The pipeline and storage assets are primarily supported
    by long-term, fixed-price revenue contracts. We have a
    partnership interest in Vector Pipeline (Vector), an interstate
    transmission pipeline, which connects Michigan to Chicago and
    Ontario. We also hold partnership interests in Millennium
    Pipeline Company which indirectly connects southern New York
    State to Upper Midwest/Canadian supply, while providing
    transportation service into the New York City markets. We have
    storage assets in Michigan capable of storing up to 90 Bcf
    in natural gas storage fields located in Southeast Michigan. The
    Washington 10 and 28 storage facilities are high deliverability
    storage fields having bi-directional interconnections with
    Vector Pipeline and MichCon providing our customers access to
    the Chicago, Michigan, other Midwest and Ontario markets.


 


    Our customers include various utilities, pipelines, and
    producers and marketers.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    Properties


 


    The Gas Storage and Pipelines business holds the following
    property:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Property Classification



 


    % Owned


 


 



    Description



 



    Location




 






    Pipelines



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Vector Pipeline



 


 


    40


    %


 


    348-mile pipeline with 1,300 MMcf per day capacity


 


    IN, IL, MI & Ontario





    Millennium Pipeline



 


 


    26


    %


 


    182-mile pipeline with 525 MMcf per day capacity


 


    New York





    Storage



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Washington 10 (includes Shelby 2 Storage)



 


 


    100


    %


 


    74 Bcf of storage capacity


 


    MI





    Washington 28



 


 


    50


    %


 


    16 Bcf of storage capacity


 


    MI








 


    The assets of these businesses are well integrated with other
    DTE Energy operations. Pursuant to an operating agreement,
    MichCon provides physical operations, maintenance, and technical
    support for the Washington 28 and Washington 10 storage
    facilities.


 



    Regulation


 


    The Gas Storage and Pipelines business operates natural gas
    storage facilities in Michigan as intrastate facilities
    regulated by the MPSC and provides intrastate storage and
    related services pursuant to an MPSC-approved tariff. We also
    provide interstate services in accordance with an Operating
    Statement on file with the FERC. Vector and Millennium Pipelines
    provide interstate transportation services in accordance with
    their FERC-approved tariffs.


 



    Strategy
    and Competition 


 


    Our Gas Storage and Pipelines business expects to continue its
    steady growth plan by expanding existing assets and developing
    new assets that are typically supported with long-term customer
    commitments. The Gas Storage and Pipelines business focuses on
    asset development opportunities in the
    Midwest-to-Northeast
    region to supply natural gas to meet growing demand. We expect
    much of the growth in the demand for natural gas in the
    U.S. to occur within the Mid-Atlantic and New England
    regions. We forecast these regions will require incremental
    pipeline and gas storage infrastructure necessary to deliver gas
    volumes to meet growing demand. Vector is an interstate pipeline
    that is filling a large portion of that need, and is
    complemented by our Michigan storage facilities. In 2009, we
    completed the Shelby 2 storage field at our Washington 10
    storage complex which increased the capacity by 3 Bcf. Also
    in 2009, Vector Pipeline completed its Athens, Michigan
    Compressor Station expansion which increased its long-haul
    capacity by approximately
    100 MMcf/d
    to 1.3 Bcf/d. Due to the proximity of the Millennium
    Pipeline to the Marcellus Shale in Southern New York/Northern
    Pennsylvania, we anticipate that the Millennium Pipeline may
    have opportunities to expand in the future.


 



    UNCONVENTIONAL
    GAS PRODUCTION


 



    Description
    


 


    Our Unconventional Gas Production business is engaged in natural
    gas exploration, development and production primarily within the
    Barnett shale in north Texas.


 


    In 2009, we added proved reserves of 67 Bcfe resulting in
    year-end total proved reserves of 234 Bcfe. The Barnett
    shale wells yielded 5 Bcfe of production in 2009. Barnett
    shale leasehold acres increased to 69,272 gross acres
    (63,367 net of interest of others) excluding impairments.
    Due to economic conditions and





    
    14



Table of Contents





    low natural gas prices during the year, we chose to do minimal
    lease acquisitions and reduce the number of new wells. We
    drilled a total of 11 wells in the Barnett shale acreage in
    2009.


 


    Our Barnett Shale gas production requires processing to extract
    natural gas liquids. Therefore, our wells are dedicated to
    various gathering and processing companies in the
    Fort Worth Basin. The revenues received for all products
    are based on prevailing market prices.


 



    Properties
    and Other


 


    The following information pertains to our interests in the
    Barnett shale as of December 31:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 



 






    Producing Wells(1)(2)(3)



 


 


    168


 


 


 


    155


 


 


 


    120


 





    Developed Lease Acreage(1)(3)(4)



 


 


    14,968


 


 


 


    14,248


 


 


 


    9,880


 





    Undeveloped Lease Acreage(1)(3)(5)



 


 


    48,399


 


 


 


    46,187


 


 


 


    38,066


 





    Production Volume (Bcfe)



 


 


    5.0


 


 


 


    5.0


 


 


 


    3.0


 





    Proved Reserves (Bcfe)(6)



 


 


    234


 


 


 


    167


 


 


 


    144


 





    Capital Expenditures (in millions)(3)



 


    $


    26


 


 


    $


    100


 


 


    $


    89


 





    Future Undiscounted Cash Flows (in millions)(7)



 


    $


    392


 


 


    $


    324


 


 


    $


    521


 





    Average Gas Price, excluding hedge contracts (per Mcf)



 


    $


    4.34


 


 


    $


    8.69


 


 


    $


    6.29


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Excludes the interest of others.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    Producing wells are the number of wells that are found to be
    capable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities such
    that proceeds from the sale of the production exceed production
    expenses and taxes.



 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    Excludes sold and impaired properties.



 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Developed lease acreage is the number of acres that are
    allocated or assignable to productive wells or wells capable of
    production.



 


    
    (5) 
    
    
    Undeveloped lease acreage is the number of acres on which wells
    have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit
    the production of commercial quantities of natural gas and oil
    regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.



 


    
    (6) 
    
    
    The increase in proved reserves in 2009 is primarily due to a
    definitional change in the disclosure rule issued by the SEC and
    technological improvements.



 


    
    (7) 
    
    
    Represents the standardized measure of undiscounted future net
    cash flows utilizing extensive estimates. The estimated future
    net cash flow computations should not be considered to represent
    our estimate of the expected revenues or the current value of
    existing proved reserves and do not include the impact of hedge
    contracts.




 



    Strategy
    and Competition


 


    We manage and operate our properties to maximize returns on
    investment and increase earnings. We continue to develop our
    holdings in the western portion of the Barnett shale and seek
    opportunities for acquisitions or divestitures of select
    properties within our asset base, when conditions are
    appropriate. Competitive pressures in the Barnett shale have
    decreased due to lower commodity prices resulting in reduced
    investment by industry participants. This downward pressure has
    created opportunities for us to reduce operating expenses and
    grow at lower cost than in prior periods.




    
    15



Table of Contents





    From time to time, we use financial derivative contracts to
    manage a portion of our exposure to changes in the price of
    natural gas on our forecasted natural gas sales. The following
    is a summary of the financial contracts in place at
    December 31, 2009 related to Barnett shale production:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2010



 






    Long-term fixed price obligations



 


 


 


 





    Volume (Bcf)



 


 


    1.2


 





    Price (per Mcf)



 


    $


    7.16


 








 


    In 2010, we expect to drill approximately 10 to 15 wells in
    the Barnett shale. Investment for the area is expected to be
    approximately $25 million during 2010.


 



    POWER AND
    INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS


 



    Description


 


    Power and Industrial Projects is comprised primarily of projects
    that deliver energy products and services to industrial,
    commercial and institutional customers; provide coal
    transportation and marketing; and sell electricity from
    biomass-fired energy projects. This business segment provides
    services using project assets usually located on or near the
    customers’ premises in the steel, automotive, pulp and
    paper, airport and other industries.


 


    Products and services include pulverized coal and petroleum coke
    supply, metallurgical coke supply, power generation, steam
    production, chilled water production, wastewater treatment,
    compressed air supply and reduced emission fuel. We own and
    operate one gas-fired peaking electric generating plant, two
    biomass-fired electric generating plants and own one coal-fired
    power plant. Two additional biomass-fired electric generating
    plants are currently under development pending certain
    regulatory approvals with expected in-service dates of August
    2010 and March 2013. Production tax credits related to two of
    the coke battery facilities expired on December 31, 2009.


 


    We also provide coal transportation services including fuel,
    transportation, storage, blending and rail equipment management
    services. Our external customers include electric utilities,
    merchant power producers, integrated steel mills and large
    industrial companies with significant energy requirements.
    Additionally, we participate in coal marketing and the purchase
    and sale of emissions credits. We own and operate a coal
    transloading terminal in South Chicago, Illinois.


 


    We develop, own and operate landfill gas recovery systems
    throughout the United States. Landfill gas, a byproduct of solid
    waste decomposition, is composed of approximately equal portions
    of methane and carbon dioxide. We develop landfill gas recovery
    systems that capture the gas and provide local utilities,
    industry and consumers with an opportunity to use a competitive,
    renewable source of energy, in addition to providing
    environmental benefits by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
    This business segment performs coal mine methane extraction, in
    which we recover methane gas from mine voids for processing and
    delivery to natural gas pipelines.


 


    We deliver reduced emission fuel to utilities with coal-fired
    electric generation power plants. We own and operate five
    facilities that process raw coal into reduced emission fuel
    resulting in significant reductions in Nitrogen Oxide (NO),
    Sulfur Dioxide
    (SO2),
    and Mercury (Hg) emissions. Production tax credits are expected
    to be generated by these facilities beginning in 2010 and
    continuing for ten years upon achieving certain criteria,
    including entering into transactions with unrelated equity
    partners or third-party customers for the reduced emission fuel.
    We expect to reduce our ownership interests in these facilities
    in 2010. We are investors in steel industry fuel entities which
    sell steel industry fuel to unrelated parties at three coke
    battery sites. Steel industry fuels facilities recycle tar
    decanter sludge, a byproduct of the coking process. Tax credits
    were generated in 2009 and we expect to generate additional
    credits in 2010. The ability to generate tax credits from the
    steel industry fuel process expires at the end of 2010.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    Properties
    and Other


 


    The following are significant properties operated by the Power
    and Industrial projects segment:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Facility



 



    Location



 



    Service Type




 






    Steel



 


 


 


 





    Pulverized Coal Operations



 


    MI & MD


 


    Pulverized Coal





    Coke Production



 


    MI, PA & IN


 


    Metallurgical Coke Supply/Steel Industry Fuels





    Other Investment in Coke Production



 


    IN


 


    Metallurgical Coke Supply/Steel Industry Fuels





    On-Site
    Energy



 


 


 


 





    Automotive



 


    Various sites in
    MI, IN, OH, NY & PA


 


    Electric Distribution, Chilled Water, Waste Water, Steam,
    Cooling Tower Water, Reverse Osmosis Water, Compressed Air, Mist
    and Dust Collectors, Steam and Chilled Water





    Airports



 


    MI & PA


 


    Electricity, Hot and Chilled Water





    Power & Renewables



 


 


 


 





    Pulp and Paper



 


    AL


 


    Electric Generation and Steam





    Power Generation



 


    MI


 


    Natural Gas





    Other Industries



 


 


 


 





    Reduced Emission Fuel



 


    MI


 


    Reduced Emission Fuel Supply





    Coal Terminaling



 


    IL


 


    Coal Terminal and Blending





    Pulverized PetCoke



 


    MS


 


    Pulverized Petroleum Coke





    Landfill Gas Recovery



 


    Various U.S. Sites


 


    Landfill Gas Production








 



    Landfill
    Gas Recovery


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2009


 


    2008


 


    2007



 






    Landfill Sites



 


 


    23


 


 


 


    23


 


 


 


    28


 





    Gas Produced (in Bcf)



 


 


    19.6


 


 


 


    18.6


 


 


 


    23.5


 








 



    Coal
    Transportation and Marketing


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2009


 


    2008


 


    2007




 


 


    (in Millions)



 






    Tons of Coal Shipped(1)



 


 


    20


 


 


 


    18


 


 


 


    35


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Includes intercompany transactions of 1 million,
    2 million, and 19 million tons in 2009, 2008, and
    2007, respectively, primarily related to synfuel operations in
    2007.




 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 




 


 


    (in Millions)


 



 






    Production Tax Credits Generated (Allocated to DTE
    Energy)



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Coke Battery(1)



 


    $


    5


 


 


    $


    5


 


 


    $


    5


 





    Steel Industry Fuels(2)



 


 


    4


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 





    Power Generation



 


 


    2


 


 


 


    2


 


 


 


    2


 





    Landfill Gas Recovery



 


 


    1


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    3


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Tax laws enabling production tax credits related to two coke
    battery facilities expired on December 31, 2009.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    IRS regulations enabling the steel industry fuel tax credits are
    scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010.






    
    17



Table of Contents




 



    Strategy
    and Competition 


 


    Power and Industrial Projects will continue leveraging its
    energy-related operating experience and project management
    capability to develop and grow our steel; renewable power;
    on-site
    energy; coal transportation, marketing, storage and blending;
    landfill gas recovery; and reduced emission fuel businesses. We
    also will continue to pursue opportunities to provide asset
    management and operations services to third parties. There are
    limited competitors for our existing disparate businesses who
    provide similar products and services.


 


    We anticipate building around our core strengths in the markets
    where we operate. In determining the markets in which to
    compete, we examine closely the regulatory and competitive
    environment, the number of competitors and our ability to
    achieve sustainable margins. We plan to maximize the
    effectiveness of our inter-related businesses as we expand. As
    we pursue growth opportunities, our first priority will be to
    achieve value-added returns.


 


    We intend to focus on the following areas for growth:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Acquiring and developing landfill gas recovery facilities,
    renewable energy projects, and other energy projects qualifying
    for tax credits; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Providing operating services to owners of industrial and power
    plants.





 


    After experiencing a weakened U.S. economy including
    constricted capital and credit markets, we expect a return to
    normal demand for our steel-related products in 2010 improving
    the financial performance of our coke battery and pulverized
    coal operations. In addition, our two primary automotive
    customers, General Motors and Chrysler, have emerged from
    bankruptcy and we continue providing onsite products and
    services. We will continue to monitor the steel and automotive
    industries closely during 2010.


 


    Our Coal Transportation and Marketing business will continue to
    leverage its existing business in 2010. Trends such as carbon
    and greenhouse gas legislation, railroad and mining
    consolidation and the lack of certainty in developing new mines
    could have an impact on how we compete in the future. In 2011,
    our existing long-term rail transportation contract, which is at
    rates significantly below the current market, will expire and we
    anticipate a decrease in transportation-related revenue of
    approximately $120 million as a result. We will continue to
    work with suppliers and the railroads to promote secure and
    competitive access to coal to meet the energy requirements of
    our customers. We will seek to build our capacity to transport,
    store and blend greater amounts of coal and expect to continue
    to grow our business in a manner consistent with, and
    complementary to, the growth of our other business segments.


 



    ENERGY
    TRADING


 



    Description
    


 


    Energy Trading focuses on physical and financial power and gas
    marketing and trading, structured transactions, enhancement of
    returns from DTE Energy’s asset portfolio, optimization of
    contracted natural gas pipeline transportation and storage, and
    power transmission and generating capacity positions. Our
    customer base is predominantly utilities, local distribution
    companies, pipelines, and other marketing and trading companies.
    We enter into derivative financial instruments as part of our
    marketing and hedging activities. Most of the derivative
    financial instruments are accounted for under the
    mark-to-market
    method, which results in the recognition in earnings of
    unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair value of
    the derivatives. We utilize forwards, futures, swaps and option
    contracts to mitigate risk associated with our marketing and
    trading activity as well as for proprietary trading within
    defined risk guidelines. Energy Trading also provides commodity
    risk management services to the other businesses within DTE
    Energy.


 


    Significant portions of the electric and gas marketing and
    trading portfolio are economically hedged. The portfolio
    includes financial instruments and gas inventory, as well as
    contracted natural gas pipelines and storage and power
    transmission and generation capacity positions. Most financial
    instruments are deemed derivatives; however, gas inventory,
    power transmission, pipelines and certain storage assets are not
    derivatives. As a result, this segment may experience earnings
    volatility as derivatives are
    marked-to-market
    without revaluing the underlying non-derivative contracts and
    assets. This results in gains and losses that are





    
    18



Table of Contents





    recognized in different accounting periods. We may incur
    mark-to-market
    gains or losses in one period that could reverse in subsequent
    periods.


 



    Regulation


 


    Energy Trading has market-based rate authority from the FERC to
    sell power and authority from FERC to sell natural gas at market
    prices. Energy Trading is subject to FERC reporting requirements
    and market behavior rules. Energy Trading also complies with
    position limits and reporting requirements related to financial
    trading set by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.


 



    Strategy
    and Competition 


 


    Our strategy for the energy trading business is to deliver
    value-added services to our customers. We seek to manage this
    business in a manner consistent with and complementary to the
    growth of our other business segments. We focus on physical
    marketing and the optimization of our portfolio of energy
    assets. We compete with electric and gas marketers, financial
    institutions, traders, utilities and other energy providers. The
    trading business is dependent upon the availability of capital
    and an investment grade credit rating. The Company believes it
    has ample available capital capacity to support Energy Trading
    activities. We monitor our use of capital closely to ensure that
    our commitments do not exceed capacity. A material credit
    restriction would negatively impact our financial performance.
    Competitors with greater access to capital or at a lower cost
    may have a competitive advantage. We have risk management and
    credit processes to monitor and mitigate risk.


 



    CORPORATE &
    OTHER


 



    Description


 


    Corporate & Other includes various holding company
    activities and holds certain non-utility debt and energy-related
    investments.


 



    DISCONTINUED
    OPERATIONS


 



    Synthetic
    Fuel


 



    Description


 


    Due to the expiration of synfuel production tax credits at the
    end of 2007, the Synthetic Fuel business ceased operations and
    was classified as a discontinued operation as of
    December 31, 2007. Synfuel plants chemically changed coal
    and waste coal into a synthetic fuel as determined under the
    Internal Revenue Code. Production tax credits were provided for
    the production and sale of solid synthetic fuel produced from
    coal and were available through December 31, 2007.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2007


 




 


 


    (in Millions)


 



 






    Production Tax Credits Generated



 


 


 


 





    Allocated to DTE Energy



 


    $


    21


 





    Allocated to partners



 


 


    186


 




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


    $


    207


 




 


 


 


 


 








 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS


 


    We are subject to extensive environmental regulation. Additional
    costs may result as the effects of various substances on the
    environment are studied and governmental regulations are
    developed and implemented. Actual costs to comply could vary
    substantially. We expect to continue recovering environmental
    costs related





    
    19



Table of Contents





    to utility operations through rates charged to our customers.
    The following table summarizes our estimated significant future
    environmental expenditures based upon current regulations:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Electric


 


 


    Gas


 


 


    Total


 




 


 


    (in Millions)


 



 






    Air



 


    $


    2,200


 


 


    $


    —


 


 


    $


    2,200


 





    Water



 


 


    55


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    55


 





    MGP sites



 


 


    5


 


 


 


    36


 


 


 


    41


 





    Other sites



 


 


    21


 


 


 


    2


 


 


 


    23


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Estimated total future expenditures through 2019



 


    $


    2,281


 


 


    $


    38


 


 


    $


    2,319


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Estimated 2010 expenditures



 


    $


    82


 


 


    $


    5


 


 


    $


    87


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Estimated 2011 expenditures



 


    $


    253


 


 


    $


    6


 


 


    $


    259


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Air — Detroit Edison is subject to the EPA
    ozone transport and acid rain regulations that limit power plant
    emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Since 2005, EPA
    and the State of Michigan have issued additional emission
    reduction regulations relating to ozone, fine particulate,
    regional haze and mercury air pollution. The new rules will lead
    to additional controls on fossil-fueled power plants to reduce
    nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions. Further,
    additional rulemakings are expected over the next few years
    which could require additional controls for sulfur dioxide,
    nitrogen oxides and hazardous air pollutants. It is not possible
    to quantify the impact of those expected rulemakings at this
    time.


 


    Water — In response to an EPA regulation,
    Detroit Edison is required to examine alternatives for reducing
    the environmental impacts of the cooling water intake structures
    at several of its facilities. Based on the results of completed
    studies and expected future studies, Detroit Edison may be
    required to perform some mitigation activities, including the
    possible installation of additional control technologies to
    reduce the environmental impact of the intake structures.
    However, a January 2007 circuit court decision remanded back to
    the EPA several provisions of the federal regulation, resulting
    in a delay in complying with the regulation. In 2008, the
    U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review the remanded
    cost-benefit analysis provision of the rule and in April 2009
    upheld EPA’s use of this provision in determining best
    available technology for reducing environmental impacts.
    Concurrently, the EPA continues to develop a revised rule, a
    draft of which is expected to be published by summer 2010. The
    EPA has also proposed an information collection request to begin
    a review of steam electric effluent guidelines. It is not
    possible at this time to quantify the impacts of these
    developing requirements.


 


    Manufactured Gas Plant (MGP) and Other Sites —
    Prior to the construction of major interstate natural gas
    pipelines, gas for heating and other uses was manufactured
    locally from processes involving coal, coke or oil. The
    facilities, which produced gas for heating and other uses, have
    been designated as MGP sites. Gas Utility owns, or previously
    owned, fifteen such former MGP sites. Detroit Edison owns, or
    previously owned, three former MGP sites. In addition to the MGP
    sites, we are also in the process of cleaning up other sites
    where contamination is present as a result of historical and
    ongoing utility operations. These other sites include an
    engineered ash storage facility, electrical distribution
    substations, gas pipelines, and underground and aboveground
    storage tank locations. Cleanup activities associated with these
    sites will be conducted over the next several years.


 


    Landfill— Detroit Edison owns and operates a
    permitted engineered ash storage facility at the Monroe Power
    Plant to dispose of fly ash from the coal fired power plant.
    Detroit Edison performed an engineering analysis in 2009 and
    identified the need for embankment side slope repairs and
    reconstruction.


 


    The EPA has expressed its intentions to develop new federal
    regulations for coal ash under the authority of the Resources
    Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). A proposed regulation is
    expected in the first quarter of 2010. Among the options EPA is
    currently considering, is a ruling that may designate coal ash
    as a “Hazardous Waste” as defined by RCRA. However,
    agencies and legislatures have urged EPA to regulate coal ash as
    a non-hazardous waste. If EPA were to designate coal ash as a
    hazardous waste, the agency could apply some, or all, of the
    disposal and reuse standards that have been applied to other
    existing hazardous wastes.





    
    20



Table of Contents





    Some of the regulatory actions currently being contemplated
    could have a material adverse impact on our operations and
    financial position and the rates we charge our customers.


 


    Global Climate Change — Climate regulation
    and/or
    legislation is being proposed and discussed within the
    U.S. Congress and the EPA. On June 26, 2009, the
    U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean
    Energy and Security Act (ACESA). The ACESA includes a cap and
    trade program that would start in 2012 and provides for costs to
    emit greenhouse gases. Despite action by the Senate
    Environmental and Public Works Committee to pass a similar but
    more stringent bill in October 2009, full Senate action on a
    climate bill is not expected before the spring of 2010.
    Meanwhile, the EPA is beginning to implement regulatory actions
    under the Clean Air Act to address emission of greenhouse gases.
    Pending or future legislation or other regulatory actions could
    have a material impact on our operations and financial position
    and the rates we charge our customers. Impacts include
    expenditures for environmental equipment beyond what is
    currently planned, financing costs related to additional capital
    expenditures and the purchase of emission allowances from market
    sources. We would seek to recover these incremental costs
    through increased rates charged to our utility customers.
    Increased costs for energy produced from traditional sources
    could also increase the economic viability of energy produced
    from renewable
    and/or
    nuclear sources and energy efficiency initiatives and the
    development of market-based trading of carbon offsets providing
    business opportunities for our utility and non-utility segments.
    It is not possible to quantify these impacts on DTE Energy or
    its customers at this time.


 


    Non-utility — Our non-utility affiliates are
    subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations
    dealing with the protection of the environment from various
    pollutants. Our non-utility affiliates are substantially in
    compliance with all environmental requirements.


 


    See Notes 12 and 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this Report and Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this Report.


 



    EMPLOYEES


 


    We had 10,244 employees as of December 31, 2009, of
    which 5,186 were represented by unions. The majority of our
    union employees are under contracts that expire in June and
    October 2010 and August 2012.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    There are various risks associated with the operations of DTE
    Energy’s utility and non-utility businesses. To provide a
    framework to understand the operating environment of DTE Energy,
    we are providing a brief explanation of the more significant
    risks associated with our businesses. Although we have tried to
    identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in
    the future. Each of the following risks could affect our
    performance.


 


    Regional and national economic conditions can have an
    unfavorable impact on us.  Our utility and
    non-utility businesses follow the economic cycles of the
    customers we serve. Our utilities and certain non-utility
    businesses provide services to the domestic automotive and steel
    industries which have undergone considerable financial distress,
    exacerbating the decline in regional economic conditions. Should
    national or regional economic conditions further decline,
    reduced volumes of electricity and gas, and demand for energy
    services we supply, collections of accounts receivable and
    potentially higher levels of lost or stolen gas will result in
    decreased earnings and cash flow.


 


    Adverse changes in our credit ratings may negatively affect
    us.  Regional and national economic
    conditions, increased scrutiny of the energy industry and
    regulatory changes, as well as changes in our economic
    performance, could result in credit agencies reexamining our
    credit rating. While credit ratings reflect the opinions of the
    credit agencies issuing such ratings and may not necessarily
    reflect actual performance, a downgrade in our credit rating
    below investment grade could restrict or discontinue our ability
    to access capital markets and could result in an increase in our
    borrowing costs, a reduced level of capital expenditures and
    could impact future earnings and cash flows. In addition, a
    reduction in credit rating may





    
    21



Table of Contents





    require us to post collateral related to various physical or
    financially settled contracts for the purchase of energy-related
    commodities, products and services, which could impact our
    liquidity.


 


    Our ability to access capital markets is
    important.  Our ability to access capital markets
    is important to operate our businesses. In the past, turmoil in
    credit markets has constrained, and may again in the future
    constrain, our ability as well as the ability of our
    subsidiaries to issue new debt, including commercial paper, and
    refinance existing debt at reasonable interest rates. In
    addition, the level of borrowing by other energy companies and
    the market as a whole could limit our access to capital markets.
    We have substantial amounts of credit facilities that expire in
    2010. We intend to seek to renew the facilities on or before the
    expiration dates. However, we cannot predict the outcome of
    these efforts, which could result in a decrease in amounts
    available
    and/or an
    increase in our borrowing costs and negatively impact our
    financial performance.


 


    Poor investment performance of pension and other
    postretirement benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting
    benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and
    results of operations.  Our costs of providing
    non-contributory defined benefit pension plans and other
    postretirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of
    factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, the level
    of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding
    levels of the plans, future government regulation, and our
    required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. The
    performance of the debt and equity markets affects the value of
    assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations
    under our plans. We have significant benefit obligations and
    hold significant assets in trust to satisfy these obligations.
    These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield
    uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return
    rates. A decline in the market value of the pension and
    postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding
    requirements under our pension and postretirement benefit plans
    if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in the
    foreseeable future. Additionally, our pension and postretirement
    benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest
    rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase,
    potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements.
    Also, if future increases in pension and postretirement benefit
    costs as a result of reduced plan assets are not recoverable
    from Detroit Edison or MichCon customers, the results of
    operations and financial position of our company could be
    negatively affected. Without sustained growth in the plan
    investments over time to increase the value of our plan assets,
    we could be required to fund our plans with significant amounts
    of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material
    impact on our cash flows, financial position, or results of
    operations.


 


    If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to
    record a charge to earnings.  We annually review
    the carrying value of goodwill associated with acquisitions made
    by the Company for impairment. Factors that may be considered
    for purposes of this analysis include any change in
    circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill
    may not be recoverable such as a decline in stock price and
    market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth
    rates in our industry. We cannot predict the timing, strength or
    duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery,
    worldwide or in the economy or markets in which we operate,
    however, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
    the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, the
    Company may take a non-cash impairment charge, which could
    potentially materially impact our results of operations and
    financial position.


 


    Our participation in energy trading markets subjects us to
    risk.  Events in the energy trading industry have
    increased the level of scrutiny on the energy trading business
    and the energy industry as a whole. In certain situations we may
    be required to post collateral to support trading operations,
    which could be substantial. If access to liquidity to support
    trading activities is curtailed, we could experience decreased
    earnings potential and cash flows. Energy trading activities
    take place in volatile markets and expose us to risks related to
    commodity price movements. We routinely have speculative trading
    positions in the market, within strict policy guidelines we set,
    resulting from the management of our business portfolio. To the
    extent speculative trading positions exist, fluctuating
    commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results
    and financial position. We manage our exposure by establishing
    and enforcing strict risk limits and risk management procedures.
    During periods of extreme volatility, these risk limits and risk
    management procedures may not work as planned and cannot
    eliminate all risks associated with these activities. As a
    result, we cannot predict the impact that our energy trading and
    risk management decisions may have on our business, operating
    results or financial position.




    
    22



Table of Contents





    We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom we
    do business.  Adverse economic conditions
    affecting, or financial difficulties of, counterparties with
    whom we do business could impair the ability of these
    counterparties to pay for our services or fulfill their
    contractual obligations, or cause them to delay such payments or
    obligations. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments
    on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could
    adversely affect our cash flows, financial position, or results
    of operations.


 


    We are subject to rate regulation.  Electric
    and gas rates for our utilities are set by the MPSC and the FERC
    and cannot be increased without regulatory authorization. We may
    be negatively impacted by new regulations or interpretations by
    the MPSC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies. Our ability to
    recover costs may be impacted by the time lag between the
    incurrence of costs and the recovery of the costs in
    customers’ rates. Our regulators also may decide to
    disallow recovery of certain costs in customers’ rates if
    they determine that those costs do not meet the standards for
    recovery under our governing laws and regulations. The State of
    Michigan will elect a new governor and legislature in 2010 and
    we cannot predict the outcome of that election. We cannot
    predict whether election results or changes in political
    conditions will affect the regulations or interpretations
    affecting our utilities. New legislation, regulations or
    interpretations could change how our business operates, impact
    our ability to recover costs through rate increases or require
    us to incur additional expenses.


 


    We may be required to refund amounts we collect under
    self-implemented rates.  Michigan law allows our
    utilities to self-implement rate changes six months after a rate
    filing, subject to certain limitations. However, if the final
    rate case order provides for lower rates than we have
    self-implemented, we must refund the difference, with interest.
    We have self-implemented rates in the past and have been ordered
    to make refunds to customers. Our financial performance may be
    negatively affected if the MPSC sets lower rates in future rate
    cases than those we have self-implemented, thereby requiring us
    to issue refunds. We cannot predict what rates an MPSC order
    will adopt in future rate cases.


 


    Michigan’s electric Customer Choice program could
    negatively impact our financial performance.  The
    electric Customer Choice program, as originally contemplated in
    Michigan, anticipated an eventual transition to a totally
    deregulated and competitive environment where customers would be
    charged market-based rates for their electricity. The State of
    Michigan currently experiences a hybrid market, where the MPSC
    continues to regulate electric rates for our customers, while
    alternative electric suppliers charge market-based rates. In
    addition, such regulated electric rates for certain groups of
    our customers exceed the cost of service to those customers. Due
    to distorted pricing mechanisms during the initial
    implementation period of electric Customer Choice, many
    commercial customers chose alternative electric suppliers. MPSC
    rate orders and recent energy legislation enacted by the State
    of Michigan are phasing out the pricing disparity over five
    years and have placed a cap on the total potential Customer
    Choice related migration. However, even with the electric
    Customer Choice-related relief received in recent Detroit Edison
    rate orders and the legislated 10 percent cap on
    participation in the electric Customer Choice program, there
    continues to be financial risk associated with the electric
    Customer Choice program. Electric Customer Choice migration is
    sensitive to market price and bundled electric service price
    increases.


 


    Weather significantly affects
    operations.  Deviations from normal hot and cold
    weather conditions affect our earnings and cash flow. Mild
    temperatures can result in decreased utilization of our assets,
    lowering income and cash flow. Ice storms, tornadoes, or high
    winds can damage the electric distribution system infrastructure
    and require us to perform emergency repairs and incur material
    unplanned expenses. The expenses of storm restoration efforts
    may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process.


 


    Operation of a nuclear facility subjects us to
    risk.  Ownership of an operating nuclear
    generating plant subjects us to significant additional risks.
    These risks include, among others, plant security, environmental
    regulation and remediation, and operational factors that can
    significantly impact the performance and cost of operating a
    nuclear facility. While we maintain insurance for various
    nuclear-related risks, there can be no assurances that such
    insurance will be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of
    an accident or business interruption at our nuclear generating
    plant, which may affect our financial performance.


 


    Construction and capital improvements to our power facilities
    subject us to risk.  We are managing ongoing and
    planning future significant construction and capital improvement
    projects at multiple power





    
    23



Table of Contents





    generation and distribution facilities. Many factors that could
    cause delay or increased prices for these complex projects are
    beyond our control, including the cost of materials and labor,
    subcontractor performance, timing and issuance of necessary
    permits, construction disputes and weather conditions. Failure
    to complete these projects on schedule and on budget for any
    reason could adversely affect our financial performance and
    operations at the affected facilities.


 


    The supply
    and/or price
    of energy commodities
    and/or
    related services may impact our financial
    results.  We are dependent on coal for much of our
    electrical generating capacity. Price fluctuations, fuel supply
    disruptions and increases in transportation costs could have a
    negative impact on the amounts we charge our utility customers
    for electricity and on the profitability of our non-utility
    business. Our access to natural gas supplies is critical to
    ensure reliability of service for our utility gas customers. We
    have hedging strategies and regulatory recovery mechanisms in
    place to mitigate negative fluctuations in commodity supply
    prices, but there can be no assurances that our financial
    performance will not be negatively impacted by price
    fluctuations. The price of natural gas also impacts the market
    for our non-utility businesses that compete with utilities and
    alternative electric suppliers.


 


    The supply
    and/or price
    other industrial raw and finished inputs
    and/or
    related services may impact our financial
    results.  We are dependent on supplies of certain
    commodities, such as copper and limestone, among others, and
    industrial materials and services in order to maintain
    day-to-day
    operations and maintenance of our facilities. Price fluctuations
    or supply interruptions for these commodities and other items
    could have a negative impact on the amounts we charge our
    customers for our utility products and on the profitability of
    our non-utility businesses.


 


    Unplanned power plant outages may be
    costly.  Unforeseen maintenance may be required to
    safely produce electricity or comply with environmental
    regulations. As a result of unforeseen maintenance, we may be
    required to make spot market purchases of electricity that
    exceed our costs of generation. Our financial performance may be
    negatively affected if we are unable to recover such increased
    costs.


 


    Our estimates of gas reserves are subject to
    change.  While we cannot provide absolute
    assurance that our estimates of our Barnett gas reserves are
    accurate, great care is exercised in utilizing historical
    information and assumptions to develop reasonable estimates of
    future production and cash flow. We estimate proved gas reserves
    and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves.
    There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating
    quantities of proved gas reserves and cash flows attributable to
    such reserves, including factors beyond our control. Reserve
    engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground
    accumulations of gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner.
    The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of
    cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the
    available data, assumptions regarding expenditures for future
    development and exploration activities, and of engineering and
    geological interpretation and judgment. Additionally, reserves
    and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or
    upward revisions, based upon production history, development and
    exploration activities and prices of gas. Actual future
    production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating
    expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of
    cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the
    assumptions and underlying information we used.


 


    Our ability to utilize production tax credits may be
    limited.  To reduce U.S. dependence on
    imported oil, the Internal Revenue Code provides production tax
    credits as an incentive for taxpayers to produce fuels and
    electricity from alternative sources. We have generated
    production tax credits from synfuel, coke production, landfill
    gas recovery, biomass fired electric generation, reduced
    emission fuel, steel industry fuel and gas production
    operations. We have received favorable private letter rulings on
    all of the synfuel facilities. All production tax credits taken
    after 2006 are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service
    (IRS). If our production tax credits were disallowed in whole or
    in part as a result of an IRS audit, there could be additional
    tax liabilities owed for previously recognized tax credits that
    could significantly impact our earnings and cash flows. We have
    also provided certain guarantees and indemnities in conjunction
    with the sales of interests in the synfuel facilities.


 


    We rely on cash flows from subsidiaries.  DTE
    Energy is a holding company. Cash flows from our utility and
    non-utility subsidiaries are required to pay interest expenses
    and dividends on DTE Energy debt and





    
    24



Table of Contents





    securities. Should a major subsidiary not be able to pay
    dividends or transfer cash flows to DTE Energy, our ability to
    pay interest and dividends would be restricted.


 


    Environmental laws and liability may be
    costly.  We are subject to numerous environmental
    regulations. These regulations govern air emissions, water
    quality, wastewater discharge and disposal of solid and
    hazardous waste. Compliance with these regulations can
    significantly increase capital spending, operating expenses and
    plant down times. These laws and regulations require us to seek
    a variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and
    other regulatory approvals. We could be required to install
    expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease
    activities based on these regulations. Additionally, we may
    become a responsible party for environmental cleanup at sites
    identified by a regulatory body. We cannot predict with
    certainty the amount and timing of future expenditures related
    to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating
    clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying
    liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and
    several liability on potentially responsible parties.


 


    We may also incur liabilities as a result of potential future
    requirements to address climate change issues. Proposals for
    voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed
    both in the United States and worldwide to reduce greenhouse
    gases such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil
    fuels. If increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions are
    implemented, the operations of our fossil-fuel generation assets
    and our unconventional gas production assets may be
    significantly impacted. Since there can be no assurances that
    environmental costs may be recovered through the regulatory
    process, our financial performance may be negatively impacted as
    a result of environmental matters.


 


    Renewable portfolio standards and energy efficiency programs
    may affect our business.  We are subject to
    Michigan and potential future federal legislation and regulation
    requiring us to secure sources of renewable energy. Under the
    current Michigan legislation we will be required in the future
    to provide a specified percentage of our power from Michigan
    renewable energy sources. We are developing a strategy for
    complying with the existing state legislation, but we do not
    know what requirements may be added by federal legislation. We
    are actively engaged in developing renewable energy projects and
    identifying third party projects in which we can invest. We
    cannot predict the financial impact or costs associated with
    these future projects.


 


    We are also required by Michigan legislation to implement energy
    efficiency measures and provide energy efficiency customer
    awareness and education programs. These requirements necessitate
    expenditures and implementation of these programs creates the
    risk of reducing our revenues as customers decrease their energy
    usage. We do not know how these programs will impact our
    business and future operating results.


 


    Threats of terrorism or cyber attacks could affect our
    business.  We may be threatened by problems such
    as computer viruses or terrorism that may disrupt our operations
    and could harm our operating results. Our industry requires the
    continued operation of sophisticated information technology
    systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation
    of security measures, all of our technology systems are
    vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses,
    acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our information
    technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in
    a timely way, we might be unable to fulfill critical business
    functions, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operating results, and financial condition.


 


    In addition, our generation plants, gas pipeline and storage
    facilities and electrical distribution facilities in particular
    may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our
    ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy
    products. We have increased security as a result of past events
    and we may be required by our regulators or by the future
    terrorist threat environment to make investments in security
    that we cannot currently predict.


 


    We may not be fully covered by insurance.  We
    have a comprehensive insurance program in place to provide
    coverage for various types of risks, including catastrophic
    damage as a result of acts of God, terrorism or a combination of
    other significant unforeseen events that could impact our
    operations. Economic losses might not be covered in full by
    insurance or our insurers may be unable to meet contractual
    obligations.


 


    Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable
    information could adversely affect us.  In
    connection with our business we collect and retain personally
    identifiable information of our customers,





    
    25



Table of Contents





    shareholders and employees. Our customers, shareholders and
    employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal
    information, and the United States regulatory environment
    surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly
    demanding. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of
    customer, shareholder, employee or DTE Energy data by cybercrime
    or otherwise could adversely impact our reputation and could
    result in significant costs, fines and litigation.


 


    Benefits of continuous improvement initiatives could be less
    than we expect.  We have a continuous improvement
    program that is expected to result in significant cost savings.
    Actual results achieved through this program could be less than
    our expectations.


 


    A work interruption may adversely affect
    us.  Unions represent approximately 5,000 of our
    employees. A union choosing to strike would have an impact on
    our business. Contracts with several of our unions, including
    our contract with our largest union, representing about 3,800 of
    our employees, expire on different dates throughout 2010. In
    addition, our contracts with unions representing two small
    groups of employees expired on December 31, 2009 and
    another union is currently negotiating its first contract. We
    cannot predict the outcome of any of these contract
    negotiations, some of which have not yet commenced. We are
    unable to predict the effect a work stoppage would have on our
    costs of operation and financial performance.


 


    Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and
    other skilled professional and technical employees could have an
    adverse effect on our operations.  Our business is
    dependent on our ability to recruit, retain, and motivate
    employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is
    high and the inability to retain and attract these employees
    could adversely affect our business and future operating results.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B