Item 1A. of
    this Report. We are minimizing the impacts of changes in average
    customer usage through regulatory mechanisms which decouple our
    revenue levels from sales volumes.


 


    The electric Customer Choice program in Michigan allows all of
    our electric customers to purchase their electricity from
    alternative electric suppliers of generation services, subject
    to limits. Customers choosing to purchase power from alternative
    electric suppliers represented approximately 10% of retail sales
    in 2010 and 3% of retail sales in 2009 and 2008. Customers
    participating in the electric Customer Choice program consist
    primarily of industrial and commercial customers whose
    MPSC-authorized full service rates exceed their cost of service.
    MPSC rate orders and 2008 energy legislation enacted by the
    State of Michigan are adjusting the pricing disparity over five
    years and have placed a 10% cap on the total potential Customer
    Choice related migration, mitigating some of the unfavorable
    effects of electric Customer Choice on our financial
    performance. In addition, we have a Choice Incentive Mechanism,
    which is an over/under recovery mechanism that measures non-fuel
    revenues lost or gained as a result of fluctuations in electric
    Customer Choice sales. If annual electric Customer Choice sales
    exceed the baseline amount from Detroit Edison’s most
    recent rate case, 90 percent of its lost non-fuel revenues
    associated with sales above that level may be recovered from
    full service customers. If annual electric Customer Choice sales
    decrease below the baseline, the Company must refund
    90 percent of its increase in non-fuel revenues associated
    with sales below that level to full service customers. We expect
    that in 2011 customers choosing to purchase power from
    alternative electric suppliers will represent approximately 10%
    of retail sales.




    
    9



Table of Contents





    Competition in the regulated electric distribution business is
    primarily from the
    on-site
    generation of industrial customers and from distributed
    generation applications by industrial and commercial customers.
    We do not expect significant competition for distribution to any
    group of customers in the near term.


 



    GAS
    UTILITY


 



    Description


 


    Our Gas Utility segment consists of MichCon and Citizens.


 


    Revenue is generated by providing the following major classes of
    service: gas sales, end user transportation, intermediate
    transportation, and gas storage.


 



    Revenue
    by Service


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2010


 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 






    Gas sales



 


    $


    1,281


 


 


    $


    1,443


 


 


    $


    1,824


 





    End user transportation



 


 


    185


 


 


 


    144


 


 


 


    143


 





    Intermediate transportation



 


 


    69


 


 


 


    69


 


 


 


    73


 





    Storage and other



 


 


    113


 


 


 


    132


 


 


 


    112


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total Revenue



 


    $


    1,648


 


 


    $


    1,788


 


 


    $


    2,152


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Gas sales — Includes the sale and delivery of
    natural gas primarily to residential and small-volume commercial
    and industrial customers.




 



     
        • 

    
    End user transportation — Gas delivery service
    provided primarily to large-volume commercial and industrial
    customers. Additionally, the service is provided to residential
    customers, and small-volume commercial and industrial customers
    who have elected to participate in our Customer Choice program.
    End user transportation customers purchase natural gas directly
    from producers or brokers and utilize our pipeline network to
    transport the gas to their facilities or homes.




 



     
        • 

    
    Intermediate transportation — Gas delivery
    service is provided to producers, brokers and other gas
    companies that own the natural gas, but are not the ultimate
    consumers. Intermediate transportation customers utilize our
    gathering and high-pressure transportation system to transport
    the gas to storage fields, processing plants, pipeline
    interconnections or other locations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Storage and other — Includes revenues from gas
    storage, appliance maintenance, facility development and other
    energy-related services.





 


    Our gas sales, end user transportation and intermediate
    transportation volumes, revenues and net income are impacted by
    weather. Given the seasonal nature of our business, revenues and
    net income are concentrated in the first and fourth quarters of
    the calendar year. By the end of the first quarter, the heating
    season is largely over, and we typically realize substantially
    reduced revenues and earnings in the second quarter and losses
    in the third quarter. We are minimizing the impacts of changes
    in average customer usage through regulatory mechanisms which
    decouple our revenue levels from sales volumes.


 


    Our operations are not dependent upon a limited number of
    customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would not
    have a material adverse effect on our Gas Utility segment.


 



    Natural
    Gas Supply


 


    Our gas distribution system has a planned maximum daily send-out
    capacity of 2.4 Bcf, with approximately 65% of the volume
    coming from underground storage for 2010. Peak-use requirements
    are met through utilization of our storage facilities, pipeline
    transportation capacity, and purchased gas supplies. Because of
    our geographic diversity of supply and our pipeline
    transportation and storage capacity, we are able to reliably
    meet our supply





    
    10



Table of Contents





    requirements. We believe natural gas supply and pipeline
    capacity will be sufficiently available to meet market demands
    in the foreseeable future.


 


    We purchase natural gas supplies in the open market by
    contracting with producers and marketers, and we maintain a
    diversified portfolio of natural gas supply contracts. Supplier,
    producing region, quantity, and available transportation
    diversify our natural gas supply base. We obtain our natural gas
    supply from various sources in different geographic areas (Gulf
    Coast, Mid-Continent, Canada and Michigan) under agreements that
    vary in both pricing and terms. Gas supply pricing is generally
    tied to the New York Mercantile Exchange and published price
    indices to approximate current market prices combined with MPSC
    approved fixed price supplies with varying terms and volumes
    through 2014.


 


    We are directly connected to interstate pipelines, providing
    access to most of the major natural gas supply producing regions
    in the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and Canadian regions. Our
    primary long-term transportation supply contracts are as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Availability
    


 


    Contract
    




 


 


    (MMcf/d)


 


    Expiration



 






    Vector Pipeline L.P. 



 


 


    50


 


 


 


    2012


 





    Great Lakes Gas Transmission L.P. 



 


 


    80


 


 


 


    2013


 





    Viking Gas Transmission Company



 


 


    51


 


 


 


    2013


 





    ANR Pipeline Company



 


 


    195


 


 


 


    2017


 





    Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Company



 


 


    75


 


 


 


    2029


 








 



    Properties


 


    We own distribution, storage and transportation properties that
    are located in the State of Michigan. Our distribution system
    includes approximately 19,000 miles of distribution mains,
    approximately 1,036,000 service lines and approximately
    1,319,000 active meters. We own approximately 2,000 miles
    of transportation lines that deliver natural gas to the
    distribution districts and interconnect our storage fields with
    the sources of supply and the market areas.


 


    We own properties relating to four underground natural gas
    storage fields with an aggregate working gas storage capacity of
    approximately 134 Bcf. These facilities are important in
    providing reliable and cost-effective service to our customers.
    In addition, we sell storage services to third parties. Most of
    our distribution and transportation property is located on
    property owned by others and used by us through easements,
    permits or licenses. Substantially all of our property is
    subject to the lien of a mortgage.


 


    We own 602 miles of transportation and gathering
    (non-utility) pipelines in the northern lower peninsula of
    Michigan. We lease a portion of our pipeline system to the
    Vector Pipeline Partnership (an affiliate) through a capital
    lease arrangement. See Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements in Item 8 of the Report.


 



    Regulation


 


    MichCon’s business is subject to the regulatory
    jurisdiction of the MPSC, which issues orders pertaining to
    rates, recovery of certain costs, including the costs of
    regulatory assets, conditions of service, accounting and
    operating-related matters. MichCon’s MPSC-approved rates
    charged to customers have historically been designed to allow
    for the recovery of costs, plus an authorized rate of return on
    our investments. MichCon operates natural gas storage and
    transportation facilities in Michigan as intrastate facilities
    regulated by the MPSC and provides intrastate storage and
    transportation services pursuant to an MPSC-approved tariff.


 


    MichCon also provides interstate storage and transportation
    services in accordance with an Operating Statement on file with
    the FERC. The FERC’s jurisdiction is limited and extends to
    the rates, non-discriminatory requirements and terms and
    conditions applicable to storage and transportation provided by
    MichCon in interstate markets. FERC granted MichCon authority to
    provide storage and related services in interstate commerce at
    market-based rates. MichCon provides transportation services in
    interstate commerce at cost-based rates approved by the MPSC and
    filed with the FERC.


 


    We are subject to the requirements of other regulatory agencies
    with respect to safety, the environment and health.


 


    See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this Report.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Energy
    Assistance Program


 


    Energy assistance programs, funded by the federal government and
    the State of Michigan, remain critical to MichCon’s ability
    to control its uncollectible accounts receivable and collections
    expenses. MichCon’s uncollectible accounts receivable
    expense is directly affected by the level of government-funded
    assistance its qualifying customers receive. We work
    continuously with the State of Michigan and others to determine
    whether the share of funding allocated to our customers is
    representative of the number of low-income individuals in our
    service territory.


 



    Strategy
    and Competition


 


    Our strategy is to be the preferred provider of natural gas in
    Michigan. We expect future sales volumes to decline as a result
    of economic conditions, a decrease in the number of customers,
    reduced natural gas usage by customers due to more efficient
    furnaces and appliances, and an increased emphasis on
    conservation of energy usage. We are minimizing the impacts of
    changes in average customer usage through regulatory mechanisms
    which decouple our revenue levels from sales volumes. We
    continue to provide energy-related services that capitalize on
    our expertise, capabilities and efficient systems. We continue
    to focus on lowering our operating costs by improving operating
    efficiencies.


 


    Competition in the gas business primarily involves other natural
    gas providers, as well as providers of alternative fuels and
    energy sources. The primary focus of competition for end user
    transportation is cost and reliability. Some large commercial
    and industrial customers have the ability to switch to
    alternative fuel sources such as coal, electricity, oil and
    steam. If these customers were to choose an alternative fuel
    source, they would not have a need for our end-user
    transportation service. In addition, some of these customers
    could bypass our pipeline system and have their gas delivered
    directly from an interstate pipeline. We compete against
    alternative fuel sources by providing competitive pricing and
    reliable service, supported by our storage capacity.


 


    Our extensive transportation pipeline system has enabled us to
    market 400 to 500 Bcf annually for intermediate storage and
    transportation services for Michigan gas producers, marketers,
    distribution companies and other pipeline companies. We operate
    in a central geographic location with connections to major
    Midwestern interstate pipelines that extend throughout the
    Midwest, eastern United States and eastern Canada.


 


    MichCon’s storage capacity is used to store natural gas for
    delivery to MichCon’s customers as well as sold to third
    parties, under a variety of arrangements for periods up to three
    years. Prices for storage arrangements for shorter periods are
    generally higher, but more volatile than for longer periods.
    Prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and natural
    gas pricing.


 



    GAS
    STORAGE AND PIPELINES


 



    Description


 


    Gas Storage and Pipelines owns partnership interests in two
    interstate transmission pipelines and two natural gas storage
    fields. The pipeline and storage assets are primarily supported
    by long-term, fixed-price revenue contracts. We have a
    partnership interest in Vector Pipeline (Vector), an interstate
    transportation pipeline, which connects Michigan to Chicago and
    Ontario. We also hold partnership interests in Millennium
    Pipeline Company which indirectly connects southern New York
    State to Upper Midwest/Canadian supply, while providing
    transportation service into the New York City markets. We have
    storage assets in Michigan capable of storing up to 90 Bcf
    in natural gas storage fields located in Southeast Michigan. The
    Washington 10 and 28 storage facilities are high deliverability
    storage fields having bi-directional interconnections with
    Vector Pipeline and MichCon, providing our customers access to
    the Chicago, Michigan, other Midwest and Ontario markets. Our
    customers include various utilities, pipelines, and producers
    and marketers.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Properties


 


    The Gas Storage and Pipelines business holds the following
    property:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Property
    


 


 


 


 


 


 




    Classification


 


    % Owned


 


    Description


 


    Location



 






    Pipelines



 

 


 

 


 


 


 


 





    Vector Pipeline



 

 


    40%

 


 


    348-mile pipeline with 1,300 MMcf per day capacity


 


    IL, IN, MI & Ontario





    Millennium Pipeline



 

 


    26%

 


 


    182-mile pipeline with 525 MMcf per day capacity


 


    New York





    Storage



 

 


 

 


 


 


 


 





    Washington 10 (includes



 

 


 

 


 


 


 


 





    Shelby 2 Storage)



 

 


    100%

 


 


    74 Bcf of storage capacity


 


    MI





    Washington 28



 

 


    50%

 


 


    16 Bcf of storage capacity


 


    MI








 


    The assets of these businesses are well integrated with other
    DTE Energy operations. Pursuant to an operating agreement,
    MichCon provides physical operations, maintenance, and technical
    support for the Washington 28 and Washington 10 storage
    facilities.


 



    Regulation


 


    The Gas Storage and Pipelines business operates natural gas
    storage facilities in Michigan as intrastate facilities
    regulated by the MPSC and provides intrastate storage and
    related services pursuant to an MPSC-approved tariff. We also
    provide interstate services in accordance with an Operating
    Statement on file with the FERC. Vector and Millennium Pipelines
    provide interstate transportation services in accordance with
    their FERC-approved tariffs.


 



    Strategy
    and Competition 


 


    Our Gas Storage and Pipelines business expects to continue its
    steady growth plan by expanding existing assets and developing
    new assets that are typically supported with long-term customer
    commitments. The Gas Storage and Pipelines business focuses on
    asset development opportunities in the
    Midwest-to-Northeast
    region to supply natural gas to meet growing demand. We expect
    much of the growth in the demand for natural gas in the
    U.S. to occur within the Mid-Atlantic and New England
    regions. We forecast these regions will require incremental
    pipeline and gas storage infrastructure necessary to deliver gas
    volumes to meet growing demand. Vector is an interstate pipeline
    that is filling a large portion of that need, and is
    complemented by our Michigan storage facilities. Due to the
    proximity of the Millennium Pipeline to the Marcellus shale in
    Southern New York/Northern Pennsylvania, we anticipate that the
    Millennium Pipeline may have opportunities to expand in the
    future.


 



    UNCONVENTIONAL
    GAS PRODUCTION


 



    Description
    


 


    Our Unconventional Gas Production business is engaged in natural
    gas and oil exploration, development and production primarily
    within the Barnett shale in north Texas. Our acreage covers an
    area that produces high Btu gas which provides a significant
    contribution to revenues from the value of natural gas liquids
    extracted from the gas stream. During this period of low natural
    gas prices, these natural gas liquids, with prices correlated to
    crude oil prices, have provided a significant increase to our
    realized wellhead price. Our drilling efforts this year have and
    will continue to target liquids rich gas and oil producing
    locations. Total capital investment of $26 million and
    production of 5 Bcfe remained consistent with 2009. We
    executed on leasing opportunities to optimize our existing
    portfolio by acquiring acreage at attractive prices in 2010,
    bringing our total net acreage position to 70,246 acres,
    net of impairments and expirations.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    Properties
    and Other


 


    The following information pertains to our interests in the
    Barnett shale as of December 31:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2010


 


    2009


 


    2008



 






    Producing Wells(1)(2)(3)



 


 


    194


 


 


 


    174


 


 


 


    162


 





    Developed Lease Acreage(1)(3)(4)



 


 


    15,928


 


 


 


    14,968


 


 


 


    14,248


 





    Undeveloped Lease Acreage(1)(3)(5)



 


 


    54,318


 


 


 


    48,399


 


 


 


    46,187


 





    Production Volume (Bcfe)



 


 


    4.8


 


 


 


    5.0


 


 


 


    5.0


 





    Proved Reserves (Bcfe)(6)



 


 


    201


 


 


 


    234


 


 


 


    167


 





    Capital Expenditures (in millions)(3)



 


    $


    26


 


 


    $


    26


 


 


    $


    100


 





    Future Undiscounted Cash Flows (in millions)(7)



 


    $


    478


 


 


    $


    392


 


 


    $


    324


 





    Average Gas Price, excluding hedge contracts (per Mcf)



 


    $


    5.99


 


 


    $


    4.34


 


 


    $


    8.69


 





    Average Oil Price, excluding hedge contracts (per Barrel)



 


    $


    76.41


 


 


    $


    58.47


 


 


    $


    90.27


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Excludes the interest of others.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    Producing wells are the number of wells that are found to be
    capable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities such
    that proceeds from the sale of the production exceed production
    expenses and taxes.



 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    Excludes sold and impaired properties.



 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Developed lease acreage is the number of acres that are
    allocated or assignable to productive wells or wells capable of
    production.



 


    
    (5) 
    
    
    Undeveloped lease acreage is the number of acres on which wells
    have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit
    the production of commercial quantities of natural gas and oil
    regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.



 


    
    (6) 
    
    
    The decrease in proved reserves in 2010 is primarily due to
    removal of reserves that exceeded the five-year development
    limit for the Proved Undeveloped classification, and other
    revisions to estimates. The increases in proved reserves in 2009
    are primarily due to a definitional change in the disclosure
    rule issued by the SEC and technological improvements.



 


    
    (7) 
    
    
    Represents the standardized measure of undiscounted future net
    cash flows utilizing extensive estimates. The estimated future
    net cash flow computations should not be considered to represent
    our estimate of the expected revenues or the current value of
    existing proved reserves and do not include the impact of hedge
    contracts.




 



    Strategy
    and Competition


 


    Outlook — In the longer-term, we plan to
    continue to develop our holdings in the western portion of the
    Barnett shale and to seek opportunities for additional
    monetization of select properties when conditions are
    appropriate. Our strategy for 2011 is to maintain our focus on
    reducing operating expenses and optimizing production volume.
    Given the current outlook of low natural gas prices, drilling
    efforts will continue to target liquids rich gas and oil
    production. During 2011, we expect total capital investment of
    $25 million to drill approximately 20 new wells and
    continue to acquire select acreage and achieve production of
    approximately 6 Bcfe of natural gas, compared with
    5 Bcfe in 2010.


 


    We manage and operate our properties to maximize returns on
    investment and increase earnings. We expect to continue
    acquiring additional acreage at attractive prices providing
    opportunities to create value at low cost. We will target
    properties with liquids rich gas and oil potential and our
    drilling efforts will continue to be focused on these areas. Due
    to increased activity in other shale plays throughout the
    country, the availability of service providers has decreased
    somewhat. However, we do not expect this to have a significant
    impact on our drilling plans or operations, since most oilfield
    services have been secured for the next 12 months.


 


    From time to time, we may use financial derivative contracts to
    manage a portion of our exposure to changes in the price of
    natural gas and oil on our forecasted sales volume. At
    December 31, 2010, we had no long-term fixed





    
    14



Table of Contents





    price contracts relating to natural gas and had the following
    financial contracts in place with our Energy Trading affiliate
    related to our projected oil production:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2011



 






    Oil Volume (in MBbl)



 


 


    72


 





    Price (in Bbl)



 


    $


    93.28


 








 



    POWER AND
    INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS


 



    Description


 


    Power and Industrial Projects is comprised primarily of projects
    that deliver energy products and services to industrial,
    commercial and institutional customers; provide coal
    transportation and marketing; and sell electricity from
    biomass-fired energy projects. This business segment provides
    services using project assets usually located on or near the
    customers’ premises in the steel, automotive, pulp and
    paper, airport and other industries as follows:


 


    Steel, Steel Industry Fuel, and Petroleum
    Coke:  We produce metallurgical coke from two coke
    batteries with a capacity of 1.4 million tons per year. We
    have an investment in a third coke battery with a capacity of
    1.2 million tons per year. We are investors in steel
    industry fuel entities which sell steel industry fuel at three
    coke battery sites. Steel industry fuels facilities recycle tar
    decanter sludge, a byproduct of the coking process. Tax credits
    were generated in 2009 and 2010. The ability to generate tax
    credits from the steel industry fuel process expired at
    December 31, 2010. We also provide pulverized coal and
    petroleum coke to the steel, pulp and paper, and other
    industries.


 


    Onsite Energy:  We provide power generation,
    steam production, chilled water production, wastewater treatment
    and compressed air supply to industrial customers. This business
    segment provides utility-type services using project assets
    usually located on or near the customers’ premises in the
    automotive, airport and other industries.


 


    Wholesale Power and Renewables:  We own and
    operate three biomass-fired electric generating plants with a
    capacity of 133 MWs. We own two coal-fired power plants
    currently undergoing conversions to biomass with expected
    in-service dates of the fourth quarter of 2011 and the first
    quarter of 2013. We own one gas-fired peaking electric
    generating plant. The electric output is sold under long term
    power purchase agreements. We also develop landfill gas recovery
    systems that capture the gas and provide local utilities,
    industry and consumers with an opportunity to use a competitive,
    renewable source of energy, in addition to providing
    environmental benefits by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.


 


    Reduced Emission Fuel:  We deliver reduced
    emission fuel to utilities with coal-fired electric generation
    power plants. We own and operate five facilities that process
    raw coal into reduced emission fuel resulting in reductions in
    Nitrogen Oxide (NO) and Mercury (Hg) emissions. We began
    generating production tax credits from these facilities
    beginning in 2009 which will continue through 2019 upon
    achieving certain criteria, including entering into transactions
    with unrelated equity partners or third-party customers for the
    reduced emission fuel. We continue to optimize these facilities
    by seeking investors for facilities operating at Detroit Edison
    sites, and intend to relocate other facilities to alternative
    sites which may provide increased production and emission
    reduction opportunities in 2011 and future years. In January
    2011, the Company entered into an agreement to sell a membership
    interest in one of these reduced emission fuel facilities that
    is located at a Detroit Edison site.


 


    Coal Services:  The business provides coal
    transportation and related services including fuel to our
    customers with significant energy requirements which include
    electric utilities, merchant power producers, integrated steel
    mills and large industrial companies. We specialize in
    minimizing fuel costs and maximizing reliability of supply for
    those energy-intensive customers. We own and operate a coal
    transloading terminal which provides storage and blending for
    our customers. We also engage in coal marketing which includes
    the marketing and trading of physical coal and coal financial
    instruments, and forward contracts for the purchase and sale of
    emission allowances.




    
    15



Table of Contents






    Properties
    and Other


 


    The following are significant properties operated by the Power
    and Industrial projects segment:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Facility


 


    Location


 


    Service Type



 






    Steel



 


 


 


 





    Pulverized Coal Operations



 


    MI & MD


 


    Pulverized Coal





    Coke Production



 


    MI, PA & IN


 


    Metallurgical Coke Supply/Steel Industry Fuels





    Other Investment in Coke Production and Petroleum Coke



 


     IN & MS


 


    Metallurgical Coke Supply/Steel Industry Fuels, and Pulverized
    Petroleum Coke




 


 


 


 


 





    On-Site
    Energy



 


 


 


 





    Automotive



 


    Various sites in


 


    Electric Distribution, Chilled




 


 


    MI, IN, OH,
    NY & PA


 


    Water, Waste Water, Steam, Cooling Tower Water, Reverse Osmosis
    Water, Compressed Air, Mist and Dust Collectors,




 


 


 


 


    Steam and Chilled Water





    Airports



 


    MI & PA


 


    Electricity, Hot and Chilled Water




 


 


 


 


 





    Wholesale Power & Renewables



 


 


 


 





    Pulp and Paper



 


    AL


 


    Electric Generation and Steam





    Power Generation



 


    MI


 


    Electric Peaking





    Renewables



 


    CA & WI


 


    Electric Generation





    Landfill Gas Recovery



 


    Various U.S. Sites


 


    Electric generation




 


 


 


 


 





    Other Industries



 


 


 


 





    Reduced Emission Fuel



 


    MI


 


    Reduced Emission Fuel Supply





    Coal Terminaling



 


    IL


 


    Coal Terminal and Blending








 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2010


 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 






    Production Tax Credits Generated (Allocated to DTE Energy)



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Coke Battery(1)



 


    $


    —


 


 


    $


    5


 


 


    $


    5


 





    Steel Industry Fuels(2)



 


 


    29


 


 


 


    4


 


 


 


    —


 





    Power Generation



 


 


    2


 


 


 


    2


 


 


 


    2


 





    Landfill Gas Recovery



 


 


    1


 


 


 


    1


 


 


 


    —


 





    Reduced Emission Fuel



 


 


    1


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Tax laws enabling production tax credits related to two coke
    battery facilities expired on December 31, 2009.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    IRS regulations enabling the steel industry fuel tax credits
    expired on December 31, 2010.




 



    Regulation


 


    Certain electric generating facilities within Power and
    Industrial Projects have market-based rate authority from the
    FERC to sell power. The facilities are subject to FERC reporting
    requirements and market behavior rules. Certain Power and
    Industrial projects are also subject to the applicable laws,
    rules and regulations related to the Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission, U.S. Department of Homeland Security and
    Department of Energy.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    Strategy
    and Competition 


 


    Power and Industrial Projects will continue leveraging its
    energy-related operating experience and project management
    capability to develop and grow our steel; renewable power;
    on-site
    energy; coal marketing, storage and blending; landfill gas
    recovery; and reduced emission fuel businesses. We also will
    continue to pursue opportunities to provide asset management and
    operations services to third parties. There are limited
    competitors for our existing disparate businesses who provide
    similar products and services.


 


    We anticipate building around our core strengths in the markets
    where we operate. In determining the markets in which to
    compete, we examine closely the regulatory and competitive
    environment, new and pending legislation, the number of
    competitors and our ability to achieve sustainable margins. We
    plan to maximize the effectiveness of our inter-related
    businesses as we expand. As we pursue growth opportunities, our
    first priority will be to achieve value-added returns.


 


    We intend to focus on the following areas for growth:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Monetizing and relocating our reduced emission fuel facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Acquiring and developing landfill gas recovery facilities,
    renewable energy projects, and other energy projects which may
    qualify for tax credits; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Providing operating services to owners of industrial and power
    plants.





 


    Our Coal Transportation and Marketing business will continue to
    leverage its existing business in 2011. Trends such as railroad
    and mining consolidation and the lack of certainty in developing
    new mines could have an impact on how we compete in the future.
    Effective January 1, 2011, our existing long-term rail
    transportation contract, at rates significantly below the
    current market, expired and we anticipate a decrease in
    transportation-related revenue of approximately
    $130 million as a result. We will continue to work with
    suppliers and the railroads to promote secure and competitive
    access to coal to meet the energy requirements of our customers.


 



    ENERGY
    TRADING


 



    Description
    


 


    Energy Trading focuses on physical and financial power and gas
    marketing and trading, structured transactions, enhancement of
    returns from DTE Energy’s asset portfolio, optimization of
    contracted natural gas pipeline transportation and storage, and
    power transmission and generating capacity positions. Energy
    Trading also provides natural gas, power and ancillary services
    to various utilities which may include the management of
    associated storage and transportation contracts on the
    customers’ behalf. Our customer base is predominantly
    utilities, local distribution companies, pipelines, and other
    marketing and trading companies. We enter into derivative
    financial instruments as part of our marketing and hedging
    activities. These financial instruments are generally accounted
    for under the
    mark-to-market
    method, which results in the recognition in earnings of
    unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair value of
    the derivatives. We utilize forwards, futures, swaps and option
    contracts to mitigate risk associated with our marketing and
    trading activity as well as for proprietary trading within
    defined risk guidelines. Energy Trading also provides commodity
    risk management services to the other businesses within DTE
    Energy.


 


    Significant portions of the Energy Trading portfolio are
    economically hedged. Most financial instruments and physical
    power and gas contracts are deemed derivatives; whereas, gas
    inventory, power transmission, pipeline transportation and
    certain storage assets are not derivatives. As a result, this
    segment may experience earnings volatility as derivatives are
    marked-to-market
    without revaluing the underlying non-derivative contracts and
    assets. The segment’s strategy is to economically manage
    the price risk of these underlying non-derivative contracts and
    assets with futures, forwards, swaps and options. This results
    in gains and losses that are recognized in different interim and
    annual accounting periods.


 



    Regulation


 


    Energy Trading has market-based rate authority from the FERC to
    sell power and blanket authority from the FERC to sell natural
    gas at market prices. Energy Trading is subject to FERC
    reporting requirements and market





    
    17



Table of Contents





    behavior rules. Energy Trading is also subject to the applicable
    laws, rules and regulations related to the Commodity Futures
    Trading Commission, U.S. Department of Homeland Security
    and Department of Energy.


 



    Strategy
    and Competition 


 


    Our strategy for the energy trading business is to deliver
    value-added services to our customers. We seek to manage this
    business in a manner consistent with and complementary to the
    growth of our other business segments. We focus on physical
    marketing and the optimization of our portfolio of energy
    assets. We compete with electric and gas marketers, financial
    institutions, traders, utilities and other energy providers. The
    trading business is dependent upon the availability of capital
    and an investment grade credit rating. The Company believes it
    has ample available capital capacity to support Energy Trading
    activities. We monitor our use of capital closely to ensure that
    our commitments do not exceed capacity. A material credit
    restriction would negatively impact our financial performance.
    Competitors with greater access to capital or at a lower cost
    may have a competitive advantage. We have risk management and
    credit processes to monitor and mitigate risk.


 



    CORPORATE &
    OTHER


 



    Description


 


    Corporate & Other includes various holding company
    activities and holds certain non-utility debt and energy-related
    investments.


 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS


 


    We are subject to extensive environmental regulation. Additional
    costs may result as the effects of various substances on the
    environment are studied and governmental regulations are
    developed and implemented. Actual costs to comply could vary
    substantially. We expect to continue recovering environmental
    costs related to utility operations through rates charged to our
    customers. The following table summarizes our estimated
    significant future environmental expenditures based upon current
    regulations:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Electric


 


 


    Gas


 


 


    Non-Utility


 


 


    Total


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 






    Air



 


    $


    2,100


 


 


    $


    —


 


 


    $


    —


 


 


    $


    2,100


 





    Water



 


 


    55


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    13


 


 


 


    68


 





    MGP sites



 


 


    4


 


 


 


    36


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    40


 





    Other sites



 


 


    21


 


 


 


    1


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    22


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Estimated total future expenditures through 2020



 


    $


    2,180


 


 


    $


    37


 


 


    $


    13


 


 


    $


    2,230


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Estimated 2011 expenditures



 


    $


    239


 


 


    $


    11


 


 


    $


    3


 


 


    $


    253


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Estimated 2012 expenditures



 


    $


    276


 


 


    $


    7


 


 


    $


    7


 


 


    $


    290


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Air — Detroit Edison is subject to the EPA
    ozone transport and acid rain regulations that limit power plant
    emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Since 2005, the
    EPA and the State of Michigan have issued additional emission
    reduction regulations relating to ozone, fine particulate,
    regional haze and mercury air pollution. The new rules will lead
    to additional controls on fossil-fueled power plants to reduce
    nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions. Further,
    additional rulemakings are expected over the next few years
    which could require additional controls for sulfur dioxide,
    nitrogen oxides and hazardous air pollutants. It is not possible
    to quantify the impact of those expected rulemakings at this
    time.


 


    In July 2009, DTE Energy received a Notice of Violation/Finding
    of Violation (NOV/FOV) from the EPA alleging, among other
    things, that five Detroit Edison power plants violated New
    Source Performance standards, Prevention of Significant
    Deterioration requirements, and operating permit requirements
    under the Clean Air Act. An additional NOV/FOV was received in
    June 2010 related to a recent project and outage at Unit 2 of
    the Monroe Power Plant.




    
    18



Table of Contents





    On August 5, 2010, the United States Department of Justice,
    at the request of the EPA, brought a civil suit in the
    U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan
    against DTE Energy and Detroit Edison, related to the
    June 2010 NOV/FOV and the outage work performed at Unit 2
    of the Monroe Power Plant, but not relating to the July 2009
    NOV/FOV. Among other relief, the EPA requested the court to
    require Detroit Edison to install and operate the best available
    control technology at Unit 2 of the Monroe Power Plant. Further,
    the EPA requested the court to issue a preliminary injunction to
    require Detroit Edison to (i) begin the process of
    obtaining the necessary permits for the Monroe Unit 2
    modification and (ii) offset the pollution from Monroe Unit
    2 through emissions reductions from Detroit Edison’s fleet
    of coal-fired power plants until the new control equipment is
    operating. In January 2011, the EPA’s motion for
    preliminary injunction was denied and the liability phase of the
    civil suit has been scheduled for trial in May 2011.


 


    DTE Energy and Detroit Edison believe that the plants identified
    by the EPA, including Unit 2 of the Monroe Power Plant, have
    complied with all applicable federal environmental regulations.
    Depending upon the outcome of discussions with the EPA regarding
    the NOV/FOV and the result of the civil action, the Company
    could also be required to install additional pollution control
    equipment at some or all of the power plants in question,
    implement early retirement of facilities where control equipment
    is not economical, engage in supplemental environmental
    programs,
    and/or pay
    fines. The Company cannot predict the financial impact or
    outcome of this matter, or the timing of its resolution.


 


    Water — In response to an EPA regulation,
    Detroit Edison is required to examine alternatives for reducing
    the environmental impacts of the cooling water intake structures
    at several of its facilities. Based on the results of completed
    studies and expected future studies, Detroit Edison may be
    required to install additional control technologies to reduce
    the impacts of the water intakes. Initially, it was estimated
    that Detroit Edison could incur up to approximately
    $55 million in additional capital expenditures over the
    four to six years subsequent to 2008 to comply with these
    requirements. However, a January 2007 circuit court decision
    remanded back to the EPA several provisions of the federal
    regulation that has resulted in a delay in compliance dates. The
    decision also raised the possibility that Detroit Edison may
    have to install cooling towers at some facilities at a cost
    substantially greater than was initially estimated for other
    mitigative technologies. In 2008, the Supreme Court agreed to
    review the remanded cost-benefit analysis provision of the rule
    and in April 2009 upheld the EPA’s use of this provision in
    determining best technology available for reducing environmental
    impacts. Concurrently, the EPA continues to develop a revised
    rule, a draft of which is expected to be published in the first
    quarter of 2011, with a final rule scheduled for mid-2012. The
    EPA has also issued an information collection request to begin a
    review of steam electric effluent guidelines. It is not possible
    at this time to quantify the impacts of these developing
    requirements.


 


    Manufactured Gas Plant (MGP) and Other Sites —
    Prior to the construction of major interstate natural gas
    pipelines, gas for heating and other uses was manufactured
    locally from processes involving coal, coke or oil. The
    facilities, which produced gas, have been designated as MGP
    sites. Gas Utility owns, or previously owned, fifteen such
    former MGP sites. Detroit Edison owns, or previously owned,
    three former MGP sites. In addition to the MGP sites, we are
    also in the process of cleaning up other sites where
    contamination is present as a result of historical and ongoing
    utility operations. These other sites include an engineered ash
    storage facility, electrical distribution substations, gas
    pipelines, and underground and aboveground storage tank
    locations. Cleanup activities associated with these sites will
    be conducted over the next several years.


 


    Any significant change in assumptions, such as remediation
    techniques, nature and extent of contamination and regulatory
    requirements, could impact the estimate of remedial action costs
    for the sites and affect the Company’s financial position
    and cash flows. The Company anticipates the cost amortization
    methodology approved by the MPSC for MichCon, which allows
    MichCon to amortize the MGP costs over a ten-year period
    beginning with the year subsequent to the year the MGP costs
    were incurred, and the cost deferral and rate recovery mechanism
    for Citizens Fuel Gas approved by the City of Adrian, will
    prevent environmental costs from having a material adverse
    impact on the Company’s results of operations.


 


    Landfill — Detroit Edison owns and operates a
    permitted engineered ash storage facility at the Monroe Power
    Plant to dispose of fly ash from the coal fired power plant.
    Detroit Edison performed an engineering analysis in 2009 and
    identified the need for embankment side slope repairs and
    reconstruction.




    
    19



Table of Contents





    The EPA has published proposed rules to regulate coal ash under
    the authority of the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act
    (RCRA). The proposed rule published on June 21, 2010
    contains two primary regulatory options to regulate coal ash
    residue. The EPA is currently considering either, to designate
    coal ash as a “Hazardous Waste” as defined by RCRA or
    to regulate coal ash as non-hazardous waste under RCRA. However,
    agencies and legislatures have urged the EPA to regulate coal
    ash as a non-hazardous waste. If the EPA were to designate coal
    ash as a hazardous waste, the agency could apply some, or all,
    of the disposal and reuse standards that have been applied to
    other existing hazardous wastes. Some of the regulatory actions
    currently being contemplated could have a significant impact on
    our operations and financial position and the rates we charge
    our customers. It is not possible to quantify the impact of
    those expected rulemakings at this time.


 



    Non-Utility


 


    The Company’s non-utility affiliates are subject to a
    number of environmental laws and regulations dealing with the
    protection of the environment from various pollutants.


 


    The Michigan coke battery facility received and responded to
    information requests from the EPA that resulted in the issuance
    of a Notice of Violation in June of 2007 alleging potential
    maximum achievable control technologies and new source review
    violations. The EPA is in the process of reviewing the
    Company’s position of demonstrated compliance and has not
    initiated escalated enforcement. At this time, the Company
    cannot predict the impact of this issue. Furthermore, the
    Michigan coke battery facility is the subject of an
    investigation by the MDNRE concerning visible emissions readings
    that resulted from the Company self reporting to the MDNRE
    questionable activities by an employee of a contractor hired by
    the Company to perform the visible emissions readings. At this
    time, the Company cannot predict the impact of this
    investigation.


 


    The Company is also in the process of settling historical air
    and water violations at its coke battery facility located in
    Pennsylvania. At this time, the Company cannot predict the
    impact of this settlement. The Company received two notices of
    violation from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
    Protection in 2010 alleging violations of the permit for the
    Pennsylvania coke battery facility in connection with coal pile
    storm water runoff. The Company has implemented best management
    practices to address this issue and is currently seeking a
    permit from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
    Protection to upgrade its wastewater treatment technology to a
    biological treatment facility. The Company’s non-utility
    affiliates are substantially in compliance with all
    environmental requirements, other than as noted above.


 



    Global
    Climate Change


 


    Climate regulation
    and/or
    legislation is being proposed and discussed within the
    U.S. Congress and the EPA. Despite passage of a greenhouse
    gas cap and trade bill by the U.S. House in June 2009, the
    Senate has been unable to pass a similar climate bill. A
    greenhouse gas cap and trade program is not expected to be
    included in energy or climate bills to be considered by the
    112th Congress. Meanwhile, the EPA is beginning to implement
    regulatory actions under the Clean Air Act to address emission
    of greenhouse gases. The EPA regulation of greenhouse gases
    (GHGs) begins in 2011 requiring the best available control
    technology (BACT) for major sources or modifications to existing
    major sources that cause significant increases in GHG emissions.
    The impact of this rule is uncertain until BACT is better
    defined by the permitting agencies. Pending or future
    legislation or other regulatory actions could have a material
    impact on our operations and financial position and the rates we
    charge our customers. Impacts include expenditures for
    environmental equipment beyond what is currently planned,
    financing costs related to additional capital expenditures, the
    purchase of emission offsets from market sources and the
    retirement of facilities where control equipment is not
    economical. We would seek to recover these incremental costs
    through increased rates charged to our utility customers.
    Increased costs for energy produced from traditional sources
    could also increase the economic viability of energy produced
    from renewable
    and/or
    nuclear sources and energy efficiency initiatives and the
    development of market-based trading of carbon offsets providing
    business opportunities for our utility and non-utility segments.
    It is not possible to quantify these impacts on DTE Energy or
    its customers at this time.


 


    See Notes 12 and 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this Report and Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this Report.




    
    20



Table of Contents






    EMPLOYEES


 


    We had approximately 9,800 employees as of
    December 31, 2010, of which approximately 5,000 were
    represented by unions. There are several bargaining units for
    the Company’s represented employees. In the 2010 third
    quarter, a new three-year agreement was ratified covering
    approximately 3,800 represented employees. The majority of the
    remaining represented employees are under contracts that expire
    in June 2011 and August 2012.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    There are various risks associated with the operations of DTE
    Energy’s utility and non-utility businesses. To provide a
    framework to understand the operating environment of DTE Energy,
    we are providing a brief explanation of the more significant
    risks associated with our businesses. Although we have tried to
    identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in
    the future. Each of the following risks could affect our
    performance.


 


    Regional and national economic conditions can have an
    unfavorable impact on us.  Our utility and
    non-utility businesses follow the economic cycles of the
    customers we serve. Our utilities and certain non-utility
    businesses provide services to the domestic automotive and steel
    industries which have undergone considerable financial distress,
    exacerbating the decline in regional economic conditions. Should
    national or regional economic conditions further decline,
    reduced volumes of electricity and gas, and demand for energy
    services we supply, collections of accounts receivable and
    potentially higher levels of lost or stolen gas could result in
    decreased earnings and cash flow.


 


    We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom we
    do business.  Adverse economic conditions
    affecting, or financial difficulties of, counterparties with
    whom we do business could impair the ability of these
    counterparties to pay for our services or fulfill their
    contractual obligations, or cause them to delay such payments or
    obligations. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments
    on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could
    adversely affect our cash flows, financial position, or results
    of operations.


 


    We are subject to rate regulation.  Electric
    and gas rates for our utilities are set by the MPSC and the FERC
    and cannot be changed without regulatory authorization. We may
    be negatively impacted by new regulations or interpretations by
    the MPSC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies. Our ability to
    recover costs may be impacted by the time lag between the
    incurrence of costs and the recovery of the costs in
    customers’ rates. Our regulators also may decide to
    disallow recovery of certain costs in customers’ rates if
    they determine that those costs do not meet the standards for
    recovery under our governing laws and regulations. The State of
    Michigan elected a new governor and legislature in November 2010
    and we cannot predict whether the resulting changes in political
    conditions will affect the regulations or interpretations
    affecting our utilities. New legislation, regulations or
    interpretations could change how our business operates, impact
    our ability to recover costs through rate increases or require
    us to incur additional expenses.


 


    We may be required to refund amounts we collect under
    self-implemented rates.  Michigan law allows our
    utilities to self-implement base rate changes six months after a
    rate filing, subject to certain limitations. However, if the
    final rate case order provides for lower rates than we have
    self-implemented, we must refund the difference, with interest.
    We have self-implemented rates in the past and have been ordered
    to make refunds to customers. Our financial performance may be
    negatively affected if the MPSC sets lower rates in future rate
    cases than those we have self-implemented, thereby requiring us
    to issue refunds. We cannot predict what rates an MPSC order
    will adopt in future rate cases.


 


    Michigan’s electric Customer Choice program could
    negatively impact our financial performance.  The
    electric Customer Choice program, as originally contemplated in
    Michigan, anticipated an eventual transition to a totally
    deregulated and competitive environment where customers would be
    charged market-based rates for their electricity. The State of
    Michigan currently experiences a hybrid market, where the MPSC
    continues to regulate electric rates for our customers, while
    alternative electric suppliers charge market-based rates. In
    addition, such regulated electric rates for certain groups of
    our customers exceed the cost of service to those customers. Due
    to distorted pricing mechanisms during the initial
    implementation period of electric Customer Choice, many
    commercial customers chose alternative electric suppliers. MPSC
    rate orders and 2008 energy legislation enacted by the State of
    Michigan are phasing out the pricing disparity over five years
    and have placed a cap on the total





    
    21



Table of Contents





    potential Customer Choice related migration. However, even with
    the electric Customer Choice-related relief received in recent
    Detroit Edison rate orders and the legislated 10 percent
    cap on participation in the electric Customer Choice program,
    there continues to be financial risk associated with the
    electric Customer Choice program. Electric Customer Choice
    migration is sensitive to market price and full service electric
    price changes.


 


    Environmental laws and liability may be
    costly.  We are subject to numerous environmental
    regulations. These regulations govern air emissions, water
    quality, wastewater discharge and disposal of solid and
    hazardous waste. Compliance with these regulations can
    significantly increase capital spending, operating expenses and
    plant down times. These laws and regulations require us to seek
    a variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and
    other regulatory approvals. We could be required to install
    expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease
    activities based on these regulations. Additionally, we may
    become a responsible party for environmental cleanup at sites
    identified by a regulatory body. We cannot predict with
    certainty the amount and timing of future expenditures related
    to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating
    clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying
    liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and
    several liability on potentially responsible parties.


 


    We may also incur liabilities as a result of potential future
    requirements to address climate change issues. Proposals for
    voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed
    both in the United States and worldwide to reduce greenhouse
    gases such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil
    fuels. If increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions are
    implemented, the operations of our fossil-fuel generation assets
    and our unconventional gas production assets may be
    significantly impacted. Since there can be no assurances that
    environmental costs may be recovered through the regulatory
    process, our financial performance may be negatively impacted as
    a result of environmental matters.


 


    Adverse changes in our credit ratings may negatively affect
    us.  Regional and national economic
    conditions, increased scrutiny of the energy industry and
    regulatory changes, as well as changes in our economic
    performance, could result in credit agencies reexamining our
    credit rating. While credit ratings reflect the opinions of the
    credit agencies issuing such ratings and may not necessarily
    reflect actual performance, a downgrade in our credit rating
    below investment grade could restrict or discontinue our ability
    to access capital markets and could result in an increase in our
    borrowing costs, a reduced level of capital expenditures and
    could impact future earnings and cash flows. In addition, a
    reduction in credit rating may require us to post collateral
    related to various physical or financially settled contracts for
    the purchase of energy-related commodities, products and
    services, which could impact our liquidity.


 


    Our ability to access capital markets is
    important.  Our ability to access capital markets
    is important to operate our businesses. In the past, turmoil in
    credit markets has constrained, and may again in the future
    constrain, our ability as well as the ability of our
    subsidiaries to issue new debt, including commercial paper, and
    refinance existing debt at reasonable interest rates. In
    addition, the level of borrowing by other energy companies and
    the market as a whole could limit our access to capital markets.
    We have substantial amounts of credit facilities that expire in
    2012 and 2013. We intend to seek to renew the facilities on or
    before the expiration dates. However, we cannot predict the
    outcome of these efforts, which could result in a decrease in
    amounts available
    and/or an
    increase in our borrowing costs and negatively impact our
    financial performance.


 


    Poor investment performance of pension and other
    postretirement benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting
    benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and
    results of operations.  Our costs of providing
    non-contributory defined benefit pension plans and other
    postretirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of
    factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, the level
    of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding
    levels of the plans, future government regulation, and our
    required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. The
    performance of the debt and equity markets affects the value of
    assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations
    under our plans. We have significant benefit obligations and
    hold significant assets in trust to satisfy these obligations.
    These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield
    uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return
    rates. A decline in the market value of the pension and
    postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding
    requirements under our pension and postretirement benefit plans
    if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in the
    foreseeable future. Additionally, our pension and postretirement
    benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest
    rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase,





    
    22



Table of Contents





    potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements.
    Also, if future increases in pension and postretirement benefit
    costs as a result of reduced plan assets are not recoverable
    from Detroit Edison or MichCon customers, the results of
    operations and financial position of our company could be
    negatively affected. Without sustained growth in the plan
    investments over time to increase the value of our plan assets,
    we could be required to fund our plans with significant amounts
    of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material
    impact on our cash flows, financial position, or results of
    operations.


 


    If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to
    record a charge to earnings.  We annually review
    the carrying value of goodwill associated with acquisitions made
    by the Company for impairment. Factors that may be considered
    for purposes of this analysis include any change in
    circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill
    may not be recoverable such as a decline in stock price and
    market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth
    rates in our industry. We cannot predict the timing, strength or
    duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery,
    worldwide or in the economy or markets in which we operate;
    however, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
    the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, the
    Company may take a non-cash impairment charge, which could
    potentially materially impact our results of operations and
    financial position.


 


    Weather significantly affects
    operations.  Deviations from normal hot and cold
    weather conditions affect our earnings and cash flow. Mild
    temperatures can result in decreased utilization of our assets,
    lowering income and cash flow. Ice storms, tornadoes, or high
    winds can damage the electric distribution system infrastructure
    and require us to perform emergency repairs and incur material
    unplanned expenses. The expenses of storm restoration efforts
    may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process.


 


    Operation of a nuclear facility subjects us to
    risk.  Ownership of an operating nuclear
    generating plant subjects us to significant additional risks.
    These risks include, among others, plant security, environmental
    regulation and remediation, and operational factors that can
    significantly impact the performance and cost of operating a
    nuclear facility. While we maintain insurance for various
    nuclear-related risks, there can be no assurances that such
    insurance will be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of
    an accident or business interruption at our nuclear generating
    plant, which may affect our financial performance.


 


    Construction and capital improvements to our power facilities
    subject us to risk.  We are managing ongoing and
    planning future significant construction and capital improvement
    projects at multiple power generation and distribution
    facilities. Many factors that could cause delay or increased
    prices for these complex projects are beyond our control,
    including the cost of materials and labor, subcontractor
    performance, timing and issuance of necessary permits,
    construction disputes and weather conditions. Failure to
    complete these projects on schedule and on budget for any reason
    could adversely affect our financial performance and operations
    at the affected facilities.


 


    The supply
    and/or price
    of energy commodities
    and/or
    related services may impact our financial
    results.  We are dependent on coal for much of our
    electrical generating capacity. Price fluctuations, fuel supply
    disruptions and increases in transportation costs could have a
    negative impact on the amounts we charge our utility customers
    for electricity and on the profitability of our non-utility
    businesses. Our access to natural gas supplies is critical to
    ensure reliability of service for our utility gas customers. We
    have hedging strategies and regulatory recovery mechanisms in
    place to mitigate negative fluctuations in commodity supply
    prices, but there can be no assurances that our financial
    performance will not be negatively impacted by price
    fluctuations. The price of energy also impacts the market for
    our non-utility businesses that compete with utilities and
    alternative electric suppliers.


 


    The supply
    and/or price
    of other industrial raw and finished inputs
    and/or
    related services may impact our financial
    results.  We are dependent on supplies of certain
    commodities, such as copper and limestone, among others, and
    industrial materials and services in order to maintain
    day-to-day
    operations and maintenance of our facilities. Price fluctuations
    or supply interruptions for these commodities and other items
    could have a negative impact on the amounts we charge our
    customers for our utility products and on the profitability of
    our non-utility businesses.


 


    Unplanned power plant outages may be
    costly.  Unforeseen maintenance may be required to
    safely produce electricity or comply with environmental
    regulations. As a result of unforeseen maintenance, we may be
    required to





    
    23



Table of Contents





    make spot market purchases of electricity that exceed our costs
    of generation. Our financial performance may be negatively
    affected if we are unable to recover such increased costs.


 


    Our estimates of gas reserves are subject to
    change.  While great care is exercised in
    utilizing historical information and assumptions to develop
    reasonable estimates of future production and cash flow, we
    cannot provide absolute assurance that our estimates of our
    Barnett gas reserves are accurate. We estimate proved gas
    reserves and the future net cash flows attributable to those
    reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in
    estimating quantities of proved gas reserves and cash flows
    attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond our
    control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of
    estimating underground accumulations of gas that cannot be
    measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of
    quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such
    reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions
    regarding expenditures for future development and exploration
    activities, and of engineering and geological interpretation and
    judgment. Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be
    subject to material downward or upward revisions, based upon
    production history, development and exploration activities and
    prices of gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes,
    development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of
    recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such
    reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and
    underlying information we used.


 


    Our ability to utilize production tax credits may be
    limited.  To reduce U.S. dependence on
    imported oil, the Internal Revenue Code provides production tax
    credits as an incentive for taxpayers to produce fuels and
    electricity from alternative sources. We have generated
    production tax credits from coke production, landfill gas
    recovery; biomass fired electric generation, reduced emission
    fuel, steel industry fuel and gas production operations. All
    production tax credits taken after 2008 are subject to audit by
    the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). If our production tax
    credits were disallowed in whole or in part as a result of an
    IRS audit, there could be additional tax liabilities owed for
    previously recognized tax credits that could significantly
    impact our earnings and cash flows.


 


    We rely on cash flows from subsidiaries.  DTE
    Energy is a holding company. Cash flows from our utility and
    non-utility subsidiaries are required to pay interest expenses
    and dividends on DTE Energy debt and securities. Should a major
    subsidiary not be able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows
    to DTE Energy, our ability to pay interest and dividends would
    be restricted.


 


    Renewable portfolio standards and energy efficiency programs
    may affect our business.  We are subject to
    Michigan and potential future federal legislation and regulation
    requiring us to secure sources of renewable energy. Under the
    current Michigan legislation we will be required in the future
    to provide a specified percentage of our power from Michigan
    renewable energy sources. We are developing a strategy for
    complying with the existing state legislation, but we do not
    know what requirements may be added by federal legislation. We
    are actively engaged in developing renewable energy projects and
    identifying third party projects in which we can invest. We
    cannot predict the financial impact or costs associated with
    these future projects.


 


    We are also required by Michigan legislation to implement energy
    efficiency measures and provide energy efficiency customer
    awareness and education programs. These requirements necessitate
    expenditures and implementation of these programs creates the
    risk of reducing our revenues as customers decrease their energy
    usage. We do not know how these programs will impact our
    business and future operating results.


 


    Threats of terrorism or cyber attacks could affect our
    business.  We may be threatened by problems such
    as computer viruses or terrorism that may disrupt our operations
    and could harm our operating results. Our industry requires the
    continued operation of sophisticated information technology
    systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation
    of security measures, all of our technology systems are
    vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses,
    acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our information
    technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in
    a timely way, we might be unable to fulfill critical business
    functions, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operating results, and financial condition.


 


    In addition, our generation plants, gas pipeline and storage
    facilities and electrical distribution facilities in particular
    may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our
    ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy
    products. We have increased security as a result of past events
    and we may be required by our regulators or by the future
    terrorist threat environment to make investments in security
    that we cannot currently predict.




    
    24



Table of Contents





    Our participation in energy trading markets subjects us to
    risk.  Events in the energy trading industry have
    increased the level of scrutiny on the energy trading business
    and the energy industry as a whole. In certain situations we may
    be required to post collateral to support trading operations,
    which could be substantial. If access to liquidity to support
    trading activities is curtailed, we could experience decreased
    earnings potential and cash flows. Energy trading activities
    take place in volatile markets and expose us to risks related to
    commodity price movements. We routinely have speculative trading
    positions in the market, within strict policy guidelines we set,
    resulting from the management of our business portfolio. To the
    extent speculative trading positions exist, fluctuating
    commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results
    and financial position. We manage our exposure by establishing
    and enforcing strict risk limits and risk management procedures.
    During periods of extreme volatility, these risk limits and risk
    management procedures may not work as planned and cannot
    eliminate all risks associated with these activities.


 


    We may not be fully covered by insurance.  We
    have a comprehensive insurance program in place to provide
    coverage for various types of risks, including catastrophic
    damage as a result of acts of God, terrorism or a combination of
    other significant unforeseen events that could impact our
    operations. Economic losses might not be covered in full by
    insurance or our insurers may be unable to meet contractual
    obligations.


 


    Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable
    information could adversely affect us.  In
    connection with our business we collect and retain personally
    identifiable information of our customers, shareholders and
    employees. Our customers, shareholders and employees expect that
    we will adequately protect their personal information, and the
    United States regulatory environment surrounding information
    security and privacy is increasingly demanding. A significant
    theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, shareholder, employee
    or DTE Energy data by cybercrime or otherwise could adversely
    impact our reputation and could result in significant costs,
    fines and litigation.


 


    A work interruption may adversely affect
    us.  Unions represent approximately 5,000 of our
    employees. A union choosing to strike would have an impact on
    our business. We are unable to predict the effect a work
    stoppage would have on our costs of operation and financial
    performance.


 


    Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and
    other skilled professional and technical employees could have an
    adverse effect on our operations.  Our business is
    dependent on our ability to recruit, retain, and motivate
    employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is
    high and the inability to retain and attract these employees
    could adversely affect our business and future operating results.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B