Item 1A. of
    this Report.


 


    The electric Customer Choice program in Michigan allows all of
    our electric customers to purchase their electricity from
    alternative electric suppliers of generation services. Customers
    choosing to purchase power from alternative electric suppliers
    represented approximately 3% of retail sales in 2008, 4% in 2007
    and 6% of



    
    10



Table of Contents




    such sales in 2006. Customers participating in the electric
    Customer Choice program consist primarily of industrial and
    commercial customers whose MPSC-authorized full service rates
    exceed their cost of service. MPSC rate orders and recent energy
    legislation enacted by the State of Michigan are phasing out the
    pricing disparity over five years and have placed a
    10 percent cap on the total potential Customer Choice
    related migration, mitigating some of the unfavorable effects of
    electric Customer Choice on our financial performance. Recent
    higher wholesale electric prices have also resulted in many
    former electric Customer Choice customers migrating back to
    Detroit Edison for electric generation service. When market
    conditions are favorable, we sell power into the wholesale
    market, in order to lower costs to full-service customers.


 


    Competition in the regulated electric distribution business is
    primarily from the
    on-site
    generation of industrial customers and from distributed
    generation applications by industrial and commercial customers.
    We do not expect significant competition for distribution to any
    group of customers in the near term. In 2008, the Michigan
    legislature passed a comprehensive reform package that requires
    Michigan utilities to serve ten percent of their retail sales
    from renewable energy sources by 2015. In December 2008, Detroit
    Edison issued a request for proposal to purchase Michigan-based
    renewable energy credits.


 



    GAS
    UTILITY


 



    Description


 


    Our Gas Utility segment consists of MichCon and Citizens.


 


    Revenue is generated by providing the following major classes of
    service: gas sales, end user transportation, intermediate
    transportation, and gas storage.


 



    Revenue
    by Service


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 


 


    2006


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 





    Gas sales



 


    $


    1,824


 


 


    $


    1,536


 


 


    $


    1,541


 





    End user transportation



 


 


    143


 


 


 


    140


 


 


 


    135


 





    Intermediate transportation



 


 


    73


 


 


 


    59


 


 


 


    69


 





    Storage and other



 


 


    112


 


 


 


    140


 


 


 


    104


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total Revenue



 


    $


    2,152


 


 


    $


    1,875


 


 


    $


    1,849


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Gas sales — Includes the sale and delivery of
    natural gas primarily to residential and small-volume commercial
    and industrial customers.




 



     
        • 

    
    End user transportation — Gas delivery service
    provided primarily to large-volume commercial and industrial
    customers. Additionally, the service is provided to residential
    customers, and small-volume commercial and industrial customers
    who have elected to participate in our Customer Choice program.
    End user transportation customers purchase natural gas directly
    from producers or brokers and utilize our pipeline network to
    transport the gas to their facilities or homes.




 



     
        • 

    
    Intermediate transportation — Gas delivery
    service provided to producers, brokers and other gas companies
    that own the natural gas, but are not the ultimate consumers.
    Intermediate transportation customers utilize our gathering and
    high-pressure transmission system to transport the gas to
    storage fields, processing plants, pipeline interconnections or
    other locations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Storage and other — Includes revenues from gas
    storage, appliance maintenance, facility development and other
    energy-related services.





 


    Our gas sales, end user transportation and intermediate
    transportation volumes, revenues and net income are impacted by
    weather. Given the seasonal nature of our business, revenues and
    net income are concentrated in the first and fourth quarters of
    the calendar year. By the end of the first quarter, the heating
    season is



    
    11



Table of Contents




    largely over, and we typically realize substantially reduced
    revenues and earnings in the second quarter and losses in the
    third quarter.


 


    Our operations are not dependent upon a limited number of
    customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would not
    have a material adverse effect on our Gas Utility segment.


 



    Natural
    Gas Supply


 


    Our gas distribution system has a planned maximum daily send-out
    capacity of 2.8 Bcf, with approximately 68% of the volume
    coming from underground storage for 2008. Peak-use requirements
    are met through utilization of our storage facilities, pipeline
    transportation capacity, and purchased gas supplies. Because of
    our geographic diversity of supply and our pipeline
    transportation and storage capacity, we are able to reliably
    meet our supply requirements. We believe natural gas supply and
    pipeline capacity will be sufficiently available to meet market
    demands in the foreseeable future.


 


    We purchase natural gas supplies in the open market by
    contracting with producers and marketers, and we maintain a
    diversified portfolio of natural gas supply contracts. Supplier,
    producing region, quantity, and available transportation
    diversify our natural gas supply base. We obtain our natural gas
    supply from various sources in different geographic areas (Gulf
    Coast, Mid-Continent, Canada and Michigan) under agreements that
    vary in both pricing and terms. Gas supply pricing is generally
    tied to NYMEX and published price indices to approximate current
    market prices.


 



    Properties


 


    We own distribution, transmission and storage properties that
    are located in the State of Michigan. Our distribution system
    includes approximately 19,000 miles of distribution mains,
    approximately 1,181,000 service lines and approximately
    1,324,000 active meters. We own approximately 2,000 miles
    of transmission lines that deliver natural gas to the
    distribution districts and interconnect our storage fields with
    the sources of supply and the market areas. We also own four
    carbon dioxide processing facilities.


 


    We own properties relating to four underground natural gas
    storage fields with an aggregate working gas storage capacity of
    approximately 132 Bcf. These facilities are important in
    providing reliable and cost-effective service to our customers.
    In addition, we sell storage services to third parties. Most of
    our distribution and transmission property is located on
    property owned by others and used by us through easements,
    permits or licenses. Substantially all of our property is
    subject to the lien of a mortgage.


 


    We are directly connected to interstate pipelines, providing
    access to most of the major natural gas producing regions in the
    Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and Canadian regions.


 


    Our primary long-term transportation contracts are as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Availability
    (MMcf/d)


 


    Contract Expiration



 





    Trunkline Gas Company



 


 


    10


 


 


 


    2009


 





    Viking Gas Transmission Company



 


 


    51


 


 


 


    2010


 





    TransCanada PipeLines Limited



 


 


    53


 


 


 


    2010


 





    Great Lakes Gas Transmission L.P. 



 


 


    30


 


 


 


    2011


 





    ANR Pipeline Company



 


 


    245


 


 


 


    2011


 





    Vector Pipeline L.P. 



 


 


    50


 


 


 


    2012


 





    Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Company



 


 


    75


 


 


 


    2029


 








 


    We own 830 miles of transportation and gathering
    (non-utility) pipelines in the northern lower peninsula of
    Michigan. Our Hawes pipeline project is currently under
    construction and will add an additional 10 miles of
    pipeline when completed in early 2009. We lease a portion of our
    pipeline system to the Vector Pipeline Partnership (an
    affiliate) through a capital-lease arrangement. See Note 14
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8
    of this Report.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Regulation


 


    We are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the MPSC, which
    issues orders pertaining to rates, recovery of certain costs,
    including the costs of regulatory assets, conditions of service,
    accounting and operating-related matters. MichCon’s
    MPSC-approved rates charged to customers have historically been
    designed to allow for the recovery of costs, plus an authorized
    rate of return on our investments. We are subject to the
    requirements of other regulatory agencies with respect to
    safety, the environment and health.


 


    See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this Report.


 



    Energy
    Assistance Program


 


    Energy assistance programs, funded by the federal government and
    the State of Michigan, remain critical to MichCon’s ability
    to control its uncollectible accounts receivable and collections
    expenses. MichCon’s uncollectible accounts receivable
    expense is directly affected by the level of government-funded
    assistance its qualifying customers receive. We work
    continuously with the State of Michigan and others to determine
    whether the share of funding allocated to our customers is
    representative of the number of low-income individuals in our
    service territory.


 



    Strategy
    and Competition


 


    Our strategy is to be the preferred provider of natural gas in
    Michigan. As a result of more efficient furnaces and appliances,
    and customer conservation due to high natural gas prices and
    economic conditions, we expect future sales volumes to decline.
    We continue to provide energy-related services that capitalize
    on our expertise, capabilities and efficient systems. We
    continue to focus on lowering our operating costs by improving
    operating efficiencies.


 


    Competition in the gas business primarily involves other natural
    gas providers, as well as providers of alternative fuels and
    energy sources. The primary focus of competition for end user
    transportation is cost and reliability. Some large commercial
    and industrial customers have the ability to switch to
    alternative fuel sources such as coal, electricity, oil and
    steam. If these customers were to choose an alternative fuel
    source, they would not have a need for our end-user
    transportation service. In addition, some of these customers
    could bypass our pipeline system and have their gas delivered
    directly from an interstate pipeline. We compete against
    alternative fuel sources by providing competitive pricing and
    reliable service, supported by our storage capacity.


 


    Our extensive transmission pipeline system has enabled us to
    market 400 to 500 Bcf annually for intermediate
    transportation services and storage services for Michigan gas
    producers, marketers, distribution companies and other pipeline
    companies. We operate in a central geographic location with
    connections to major Mid-western interstate pipelines that
    extend throughout the Midwest, eastern United States and eastern
    Canada.


 


    MichCon’s storage capacity is used to store natural gas for
    delivery to MichCon’s customers as well as sold to third
    parties, under a variety of arrangements for periods up to three
    years. Prices for storage arrangements for shorter periods are
    generally higher, but more volatile than for longer periods.
    Prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and natural
    gas pricing.


 



    NON-UTILITY
    OPERATIONS


 



    Gas
    Midstream


 



    Description


 


    Gas Midstream owns partnership interests in two interstate
    transmission pipelines and two natural gas storage fields. The
    pipeline and storage assets are primarily supported by
    long-term, fixed-price revenue contracts. We have a partnership
    interest in Vector Pipeline (Vector), an interstate transmission
    pipeline, which connects Michigan to Chicago and Ontario. We
    also hold partnership interests in Millennium Pipeline Company
    which indirectly connects southern New York State to Upper
    Midwest/Canadian supply, while



    
    13



Table of Contents




    providing transportation service into the New York City markets.
    We have storage assets in Michigan capable of storing up to
    87 Bcf in natural gas storage fields located in Southeast
    Michigan. The Washington 10 and 28 storage facilities are high
    deliverability storage fields having bi-directional
    interconnections with Vector Pipeline and MichCon providing our
    customers access to the Chicago, Michigan, other Midwest and
    Ontario market centers.


 


    Our customers include various utilities, pipelines, and
    producers and marketers.


 



    Properties


 


    The Gas Midstream business holds the following property:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Property Classification



 


    % Owned


 


 


    Description


 


    Location



 





    Pipelines



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Vector Pipeline



 


 


    40%


 


 


    348-mile pipeline with 1,200 MMcf per day capacity


 


    Midwest





    Millennium Pipeline (in service December 2008)



 


 


    26%


 


 


    182-mile pipeline with 525 MMcf per day capacity


 


    New York





    Storage



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Washington 10 (includes Shelby 2 Storage)



 


 


    100%


 


 


    71 Bcf of storage capacity


 


    Macomb Co, MI





    Washington 28



 


 


    50%


 


 


    16 Bcf of storage capacity


 


    Macomb Co, MI








 


    The assets of these businesses are well integrated with other
    DTE Energy operations. Pursuant to an operating agreement,
    MichCon provides physical operations, maintenance, and technical
    support for the Washington 28 and Washington 10 storage
    facilities.


 



    Strategy
    and Competition 


 


    Our Gas Midstream business expects to continue its steady growth
    plan. The Gas Midstream business focuses on asset development
    opportunities in the Midwest-to-Northeast region to supply
    natural gas to meet growing demand. We expect much of the growth
    in the demand for natural gas in the U.S. to occur within
    the Mid-Atlantic and New England regions. We forecast these
    regions will require incremental pipeline and gas storage
    infrastructure necessary to deliver gas volumes to meet growing
    demand. Vector is an interstate pipeline that is filling a large
    portion of that need, and is complemented by our Michigan
    storage facilities. We will complete the Shelby 2 storage field
    at our Washington 10 storage complex by 2010 with an additional
    3 Bcf of capacity additions. Once completed the combined
    capacity for Washington 10 and Washington 28 will be
    approximately 90 Bcf. Vector Pipeline received FERC
    approval in June 2008 to build an additional compressor station
    in Michigan and to expand the Vector Pipeline by approximately
    100 MMcf/d
    to 1.3 Bcf/d, with a proposed in-service date of
    November 1, 2009. Gas Midstream has a 26 percent
    ownership interest in Millennium Pipeline which is capable of
    transporting 525,000 dth/d of natural gas across the southern
    tier of New York towards New York City. Millennium was placed
    in-service December 2008. We plan to expand existing assets and
    develop new assets that are typically supported with long-term
    customer commitments.


 



    Unconventional
    Gas Production 


 



    Description
    


 


    Our Unconventional Gas Production business is engaged in natural
    gas exploration, development and production within the Barnett
    shale in north Texas. In June 2007, we sold our Antrim shale gas
    exploration and production business in the northern lower
    peninsula of Michigan for gross proceeds of $1.262 billion.
    In January 2008, we sold a portion of our Barnett shale
    properties for gross proceeds of approximately
    $260 million. The properties in the 2008 sale include
    75 Bcfe of proved reserves on approximately 11,000 net
    acres in the core area of the Barnett shale.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    In 2008, we added proved reserves of 23 Bcfe in the Barnett
    shale resulting in year-end total proved reserves of
    167 Bcfe. The Barnett shale wells yielded 5 Bcfe of
    production in 2008. Barnett shale leasehold acres increased to
    62,395 gross acres (60,435 net of interest of others)
    excluding impairments. We drilled a total of 37 wells in
    the Barnett shale acreage.


 


    Our Barnett Shale gas production requires processing to extract
    natural gas liquids. Therefore, our wells are dedicated to
    various gathering and processing companies in the
    Fort Worth Basin. The revenues received for all products
    are sold at prevailing market based prices.


 



    Properties


 


    Unconventional Gas Production owns interests in the following
    producing wells and acreage in the Barnett shale as of December
    31:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    2008


 


    2007


 


    2006




 


 


    Gross


 


    Net(1)


 


    Gross


 


    Net(1)


 


    Gross


 


    Net(1)



 





    Producing Wells (2)



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Barnett shale(3)



 


 


    156


 


 


 


    155


 


 


 


    120


 


 


 


    120


 


 


 


    83


 


 


 


    83


 





    Held for sale



 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    53


 


 


 


    33


 


 


 


    41


 


 


 


    27


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


    156


 


 


 


    155


 


 


 


    173


 


 


 


    153


 


 


 


    124


 


 


 


    110


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Developed Lease Acreage (4)



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Barnett shale(3)



 


 


    14,322


 


 


 


    14,248


 


 


 


    9,922


 


 


 


    9,880


 


 


 


    10,759


 


 


 


    10,693


 





    Held for sale



 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    7,379


 


 


 


    4,987


 


 


 


    5,679


 


 


 


    3,977


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


    14,322


 


 


 


    14,248


 


 


 


    17,301


 


 


 


    14,867


 


 


 


    16,438


 


 


 


    14,670


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Undeveloped Lease Acreage (5)



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Barnett shale(3)



 


 


    48,073


 


 


 


    46,187


 


 


 


    38,793


 


 


 


    38,066


 


 


 


    30,649


 


 


 


    27,613


 





    Held for sale



 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    7,447


 


 


 


    5,809


 


 


 


    7,073


 


 


 


    6,164


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


    48,073


 


 


 


    46,187


 


 


 


    46,240


 


 


 


    43,875


 


 


 


    37,722


 


 


 


    33,777


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Excludes the interest of others.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    Producing wells are the number of wells that are found to be
    capable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities such
    that proceeds from the sale of the production exceed production
    expenses and taxes.



 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    Excludes sold and impaired properties.



 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Developed lease acreage is the number of acres that are
    allocated or assignable to productive wells or wells capable of
    production.



 


    
    (5) 
    
    
    Undeveloped lease acreage is the number of acres on which wells
    have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit
    the production of commercial quantities of natural gas and oil
    regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.




 



    Strategy
    and Competition


 


    We manage and operate our Barnett shale gas properties to
    maximize returns on investment and increase earnings with the
    overriding goal of optimizing the cost of producing reserves and
    adding additional proved reserves. We will consider potential
    periodic monetizations where market conditions are appropriate.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    From time to time, we use financial derivative contracts to
    manage a portion of our exposure to changes in the price of
    natural gas on our forecasted natural gas sales. The following
    is a summary of the financial contracts in place at
    December 31, 2008 related to Barnett shale production:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    2009


 


    2010



 





    Long-term fixed price obligations



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Volume- Bcf



 


 


    2.0


 


 


 


    1.2


 





    Price- $/Mcf



 


    $


    7.42


 


 


    $


    7.16


 








 


    We continue to invest in our holdings in the Western portion of
    the Barnett shale and anticipate significant opportunities to
    develop our current position while accumulating additional
    acreage in and around our existing assets. Current economic
    conditions and depressed commodity prices have created
    challenges and opportunities in the Barnett shale. While
    operating margins are expected to be lower than 2008,
    opportunities exist to reduce operating, drilling and completion
    costs primarily due to the increased availability of drilling
    rigs and oil field service companies.


 


    In 2009, we expect to drill approximately 15 to 25 wells in
    the Barnett shale. Investment for the area is expected to be
    approximately $25 million during 2009.


 



    Power
    and Industrial Projects


 



    Description


 


    Power and Industrial Projects is comprised primarily of projects
    that deliver energy and utility-type services to steel,
    automotive and other industrial, commercial and institutional
    customers; provide coal transportation and marketing; and
    develop biomass energy projects. This business segment provides
    utility-type services using project assets usually located on or
    near the customers’ premises in the steel, automotive, pulp
    and paper, airport and other industries.


 


    These services include pulverized coal, petroleum coke and
    metallurgical coke supply, power generation, steam production,
    chilled water production, wastewater treatment and compressed
    air supply. We own and operate one gas-fired peaking electric
    generating plant, two biomass-fired electric generating plants
    and operate one coal-fired power plant under contract. A third
    biomass-fired electric generating plant is currently under
    development pending certain regulatory and management approvals
    with an expected in-service date of January 2010. Production tax
    credits related to two of the coke battery facilities were
    reinstated for the years 2006 through 2009. The coke battery
    facilities produce coke that is used in blast furnaces within
    the steel industry. Detroit Edison provides operations and
    maintenance services for the pulverized coal facility located at
    Detroit Edison’s River Rouge power plant.


 


    We also provide coal transportation services including fuel,
    transportation, storage, blending and rail equipment management
    services. Our external customers include electric utilities,
    merchant power producers, integrated steel mills and large
    industrial companies with significant energy requirements.
    Additionally, we participate in coal marketing and the purchase
    and sale of emissions credits. We own and operate a coal
    transloading terminal in South Chicago, Illinois.


 


    We develop, own and operate landfill gas recovery systems
    throughout the United States. Landfill gas, a byproduct of solid
    waste decomposition, is composed of approximately equal portions
    of methane and carbon dioxide. We develop landfill gas recovery
    systems that capture the gas and provide local utilities,
    industry and consumers with an opportunity to use a competitive,
    renewable source of energy, in addition to providing
    environmental benefits by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
    This business segment performs coal mine methane extraction, in
    which we recover methane gas from mine voids for processing and
    delivery to natural gas pipelines, industrial users or for small
    power generation projects. We own a coal mine methane gathering
    system and gas processing facility.


 


    Discontinuance of Planned Monetization of a Portion of our
    Power and Industrial Projects Business — During
    the third quarter of 2007, we announced our plans to sell a 50%
    interest in a portfolio of select Power and Industrial Projects.
    During 2008, the United States asset sale market weakened and
    challenges in



    
    16



Table of Contents




    the debt market persisted. As a result of these developments,
    our work on this planned monetization was discontinued.


 



    Properties


 


    The following are significant properties operated by the Power
    and Industrial projects segment:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Facility



 


    Location


 


    % Owned


 


    Service Type



 





    Steel



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    DTE PCI Enterprises Company



 


    River Rouge, MI


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Pulverized Coal





    DTE Sparrows Point



 


    Sparrows Point, MD


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Pulverized Coal





    EES Coke Battery



 


    River Rouge, MI


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Metallurgical Coke Supply





    DTE Shenango



 


    Pittsburgh, PA


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Metallurgical Coke Supply





    Indiana Harbor Coke Co.,



 


    East Chicago, IN


 


 


    14.8%


 


 


    Metallurgical Coke Supply





    Automotive



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    DTE Energy Center



 


    Various sites in


 


 


    50%


 


 


    Electric Distribution, Chilled




 


 


    MI, IN, OH


 


 


 


 


 


    Water, Waste Water, Compressed Air, Mist and Dust Collectors





    DTE Northwind



 


    Detroit, MI


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Steam and Chilled Water





    DTE Moraine



 


    Moraine, OH


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Compressed Air





    DTE Tonawanda



 


    Tonawanda, NY


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Chilled and Waste Water





    DTE Defiance



 


    Defiance, OH


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Steam, Cooling Tower Water, Chilled Water, Compressed Air





    DTE Heritage



 


    Dearborn, MI


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Electric Distribution





    DTE Dearborn



 


    Dearborn, MI


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Steam, Chilled Water, Compressed Air, Waste Water





    DTE Pontiac North



 


    Pontiac, MI


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Electric Generation  and Steam





    DTE Lordstown



 


    Lordstown, OH


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Steam, Chilled Water, Compressed Air, and Reverse Osmosis Water





    Pulp and Paper



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Mobile Energy Services



 


    Mobile, AL


 


 


    50%


 


 


    Electric Generation  and Steam





    Airport



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Metro Energy



 


    Romulus, MI


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Electricity, Hot and Chilled Water





    DTE Pittsburgh



 


    Pittsburgh, PA


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Hot and Chilled Water





    Other Industries



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    DTE PetCoke



 


    Vicksburg, MS


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Pulverized Petroleum Coke





    Power Generation



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    DTE East China (320MW)



 


    East China Twp, MI


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Natural Gas Generating Plant





    Woodland Biomass (25MW)



 


    Woodland, CA


 


 


    99%


 


 


    Wood Fired Power Plant





    DTE Stoneman (40MW)



 


    Cassville, WI


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Biomass Power Plant





    Coal Transportation and Marketing



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    DTE Chicago Fuels Terminal



 


    Chicago, IL


 


 


    100%


 


 


    Coal Terminal and Blending Plant









    
    17



Table of Contents





    Landfill
    Gas Recovery


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    2008


 


    2007


 


    2006



 





    Landfill Sites



 


 


    23


 


 


 


    28


 


 


 


    26


 





    Gas Produced (in Bcf)



 


 


    18.6


 


 


 


    23.5


 


 


 


    22.9


 








 



    Coal
    Transportation and Marketing


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    2008


 


    2007


 


    2006




 


 


    (In millions)



 





    Tons of Coal Shipped(1)



 


 


    18


 


 


 


    35


 


 


 


    34


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Includes intercompany transactions of 2 million,
    19 million, and 14 million tons in 2008, 2007, and
    2006, respectively, primarily related to synfuel operations in
    2007 and 2006.




 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Production Tax Credits Generated (Allocated to DTE Energy)



 


    2008


 


    2007


 


    2006


 


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 


 



 





    Coke Battery



 


    $


    5


 


 


    $


    5


 


 


    $


    6


 


 


 


 


 





    Power Generation



 


 


    2


 


 


 


    2


 


 


 


    1


 


 


 


 


 





    Landfill Gas Recovery



 


 


    —


 


 


 


    3


 


 


 


    5


 


 


 


 


 








 



    Strategy
    and Competition 


 


    Power and Industrial Projects will continue leveraging its
    energy-related operating experience and project management
    capability to develop and grow our steel; renewable power;
    on-site
    energy; coal transportation, marketing, storage and blending;
    and landfill gas recovery businesses. We also will continue to
    pursue opportunities to provide asset management and operations
    services to third parties.


 


    We anticipate building around our core strengths in the markets
    where we operate. In determining the markets in which to
    compete, we examine closely the regulatory and competitive
    environment, the number of competitors and our ability to
    achieve sustainable margins. We plan to maximize the
    effectiveness of our inter-related businesses as we expand from
    our current regional focus. As we pursue growth opportunities,
    our first priority will be to achieve value-added returns.


 


    We intend to focus on the following areas for growth:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Providing operating services to owners of industrial and power
    plants; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Acquiring and developing solid fuel-fired power plants, landfill
    gas recovery facilities, renewable energy projects, and other
    energy projects qualifying for tax credits.





 


    Due to a weakened U.S. economy including constricted
    capital and credit markets, we expect significantly lower demand
    for steel in 2009 impacting the financial performance of our
    coke battery and pulverized coal operations. In addition, the
    automotive sector has been severely impacted by the current
    economic situation and has resulted in curtailment of production
    and plant closings. We will continue to monitor the steel and
    automotive industries closely during 2009.


 


    Our Coal Transportation and Marketing business is one of the
    leading North American coal marketers. Trends such as railroad
    and mining consolidation and the lack of certainty in developing
    new mines by many mining firms could have an impact on how we
    compete in the future. In 2011, our existing long-term rail
    transportation contract which gives us a competitive advantage
    will expire. We will continue to work with suppliers and the
    railroads to promote secure and competitive access to coal to
    meet the energy requirements of our customers. We will seek to
    build our capacity to transport, store and blend greater amounts
    of coal and expect to continue to grow our business in a manner
    consistent with, and complementary to, the growth of our other
    business segments.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Energy
    Trading


 



    Description
    


 


    Energy Trading focuses on physical power and gas marketing and
    trading, structured transactions, enhancement of returns from
    DTE Energy’s asset portfolio, optimization of contracted
    natural gas pipeline transportation and storage, and power
    transmission and generating capacity positions. Our customer
    base is predominantly utilities, local distribution companies,
    pipelines, and other marketing and trading companies. We enter
    into derivative financial instruments as part of our marketing
    and hedging activities. Most of the derivative financial
    instruments are accounted for under the mark-to-market method,
    which results in the recognition of unrealized gains and losses
    from changes in the fair value of the derivatives. We utilize
    forwards, futures, swaps and option contracts to mitigate risk
    associated with our marketing and trading activity as well as
    for proprietary trading within defined risk guidelines. Energy
    Trading also provides commodity risk management services to the
    other businesses within DTE Energy.


 


    Significant portions of the electric and gas marketing and
    trading portfolio are economically hedged. The portfolio
    includes financial instruments and gas inventory, as well as
    contracted natural gas pipelines and storage and power
    generation capacity positions. Most financial instruments are
    deemed derivatives, however gas inventory, power transmission,
    pipelines and certain storage assets are not derivatives. As a
    result, this segment may experience earnings volatility as
    derivatives are marked-to-market without revaluing the
    underlying non-derivative contracts and assets. This results in
    gains and losses that are recognized in different accounting
    periods. We may incur mark-to-market gains or losses in one
    period that could reverse in subsequent periods.


 



    Strategy
    and Competition 


 


    Our strategy for the energy trading business is to deliver
    value-added services to our customers. We seek to manage this
    business in a manner consistent with and complementary to the
    growth of our other business segments. We focus on physical
    marketing and the optimization of our portfolio of energy
    assets. We compete with electric and gas marketers, traders,
    utilities and other energy providers. The trading business is
    dependent upon the availability of capital and an investment
    grade credit rating. A material credit restriction would
    negatively impact our financial performance. Competitors with
    greater access to capital or at a lower cost may have a
    competitive advantage. We have risk management and credit
    processes to monitor and mitigate risk.


 



    CORPORATE &
    OTHER


 



    Description


 


    Corporate & Other includes various holding company
    activities and holds certain non-utility debt and energy-related
    investments.


 



    DISCONTINUED
    OPERATIONS


 



    Synthetic
    Fuel


 



    Description


 


    The Synthetic Fuel business was presented as a non-utility
    segment through the third quarter of 2007. Due to the expiration
    of synfuel production tax credits at the end of 2007, the
    Synthetic Fuel business ceased operations and was classified as
    a discontinued operation as of December 31, 2007. Synfuel
    plants chemically changed coal and waste coal into a synthetic
    fuel as determined under the Internal Revenue Code. Production
    tax credits were provided for the production and sale of solid
    synthetic fuel produced from coal and were available through
    December 31, 2007. To optimize income and cash flow from
    the synfuel operations, we sold interests in all nine of the
    facilities, representing 91% of the total production capacity.
    The synthetic fuel plants generated operating losses that were
    offset by production tax credits.



    
    19



Table of Contents




    The value of a production tax credit was adjusted annually by an
    inflation factor and published annually by the Internal Revenue
    Service (IRS). The value of production tax credits for synthetic
    fuel was reduced when the Reference Price of a barrel of oil
    exceeded certain thresholds.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    2007


 


 


    2006


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 





    Production Tax Credits Generated



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Allocated to DTE Energy



 


    $


    21


 


 


    $


    23


 





    Allocated to partners



 


 


    186


 


 


 


    260


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


    $


    207


 


 


    $


    283


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS


 


    We are subject to extensive environmental regulation. Additional
    costs may result as the effects of various substances on the
    environment are studied and governmental regulations are
    developed and implemented. Actual costs to comply could vary
    substantially. We expect to continue recovering environmental
    costs related to utility operations through rates charged to our
    customers. The following table summarizes our estimated
    significant future environmental expenditures based upon current
    regulations:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Electric


 


 


    Gas


 


 


    Non-Utility


 


 


    Total


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 





    Air



 


    $


    2,800


 


 


    $


    —


 


 


    $


    —


 


 


    $


    2,800


 





    Water



 


 


    55


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    1


 


 


 


    53


 





    MGP sites



 


 


    3


 


 


 


    38


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    41


 





    Other sites



 


 


    9


 


 


 


    1


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    10


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Estimated total future expenditures through 2018



 


    $


    2,867


 


 


    $


    39


 


 


    $


    1


 


 


    $


    2,904


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Estimated 2009 expenditures



 


    $


    100


 


 


    $


    3


 


 


    $


    1


 


 


    $


    104


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Air — Detroit Edison is subject to the EPA
    ozone transport and acid rain regulations that limit power plant
    emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Since 2005, EPA
    and the State of Michigan have issued additional emission
    reduction regulations relating to ozone, fine particulate,
    regional haze and mercury air pollution. The new rules will lead
    to additional controls on fossil-fueled power plants to reduce
    nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions.


 


    Water — In response to an EPA regulation,
    Detroit Edison is required to examine alternatives for reducing
    the environmental impacts of the cooling water intake structures
    at several of its facilities. Based on the results of studies to
    be conducted over the next several years, Detroit Edison may be
    required to perform some mitigation activities, including the
    possible installation of additional control technologies to
    reduce the environmental impact of the intake structures.
    However, a January 2007 circuit court decision remanded back to
    the EPA several provisions of the federal regulation, resulting
    in a delay in complying with the regulation. In 2008, the
    U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review the remanded
    cost-benefit analysis provision of the rule. A decision is
    expected in the first quarter of 2009. Concurrently, the EPA
    continues to develop a revised rule, which is expected to be
    published in early 2009.


 


    Manufactured Gas Plant (MGP) and Other Sites —
    Prior to the construction of major interstate natural gas
    pipelines, gas for heating and other uses was manufactured
    locally from processes involving coal, coke or oil. The
    facilities, which produced gas for heating and other uses, have
    been designated as MGP sites. Gas Utility owns, or previously
    owned, fifteen such former MGP sites. In addition to the MGP
    sites, we are also in the process of cleaning up other
    contaminated sites. Detroit Edison conducted remedial
    investigations at contaminated sites, including three MGP sites,
    the area surrounding an ash landfill and several underground and
    aboveground storage tank locations. As a result of these
    determinations, we have recorded liabilities related to these
    sites. Cleanup activities associated with these sites will be
    conducted over the next several years.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    Non-utility — Our non-utility affiliates are
    subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations
    dealing with the protection of the environment from various
    pollutants. We are in the process of installing new
    environmental equipment at our coke battery facility in
    Michigan. We expect the project to be completed in the first
    half of 2009. Our non-utility affiliates are substantially in
    compliance with all environmental requirements.


 


    Global Climate Change — Proposals for voluntary
    initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed in the
    United States to reduce greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide,
    a by-product of burning fossil fuels. There may be legislative
    and or regulatory action to address the issue of changes in
    climate that may result from the build up of greenhouse gases,
    including carbon dioxide, in the atmosphere. We cannot predict
    the impact any legislative or regulatory action may have on our
    operations and financial position.


 


    See Notes 5 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this Report.


 



    EMPLOYEES


 


    We had 10,471 employees as of December 31, 2008, of
    which 5,331 were represented by unions. The majority of our
    union employees are under contracts that expire in June and
    October 2010 and August 2012.


 



    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF DTE ENERGY





     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Present
    




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Position
    





    Name



 



    Age(1)



 



    Present Position



 



    Held Since




 





    Anthony F. Earley, Jr. 



 

 


    59

 


 


    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


 


    8-1-98





    Gerard M. Anderson(2)



 

 


    50

 


 


    Chief Operating Officer and


 


    10-31-05




 


 

 


 

 


 


    President


 


    6-23-04





    David E. Meador(2)



 

 


    51

 


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


 


    6-23-04





    Lynne Ellyn



 

 


    57

 


 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer


 


    12-31-01





    Paul C. Hillegonds(3)



 

 


    59

 


 


    Senior Vice President


 


    5-16-05





    Steve E. Kurmas(2)



 

 


    52

 


 


    President and Chief Operating Officer, Detroit Edison


 


    12-08-08




 


 

 


 

 


 


    and Group President, DTE Energy


 


    12-08-08





    Bruce D. Peterson



 

 


    52

 


 


    Senior Vice President and General Counsel


 


    6-25-02





    Gerardo Norcia(2)



 

 


    45

 


 


    President and Chief Operating Officer, MichCon and


 


    6-28-07




 


 

 


 

 


 


    Group President, DTE Energy


 


    6-28-07





    Larry E. Steward



 

 


    56

 


 


    Vice President


 


    1-15-01





    Peter B. Oleksiak(2)



 

 


    42

 


 


    Vice President and Controller


 


    2-07-07





    Sandra K. Ennis(2)



 

 


    52

 


 


    Corporate Secretary


 


    8-4-05








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    As of December 31, 2008.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    These executive officers held various positions at DTE Energy
    for at least five or more years.



 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    For eight years prior to joining DTE Energy, Mr. Hillegonds
    was president of Detroit Renaissance, a private, non-profit
    executive leadership organization dedicated to the growth of the
    southeast Michigan economy.




 


    Under our Bylaws, the officers of DTE Energy are elected
    annually by the Board of Directors at a meeting held for such
    purpose, each to serve until the next annual meeting of
    directors or until their respective successors are chosen and
    qualified.


 


    Pursuant to Article VI of our Articles of Incorporation,
    directors of DTE Energy will not be personally liable to us or
    our shareholders in the performance of their duties to the full
    extent permitted by law.



    
    21



Table of Contents




    Article VII of our Articles of Incorporation provides that
    each current or former director or officer of DTE Energy, or
    each current and former employee or agent of the Company or a
    director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation,
    partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including
    the heirs, executors, administrators or estate of such person),
    shall be indemnified by us to the full extent permitted by the
    Michigan Business Corporation Act or any other applicable laws
    as presently or hereafter in effect. In addition, we have
    entered into indemnification agreements with all of our officers
    and directors; these agreements set forth procedures for claims
    for indemnification as well as contractually obligating us to
    provide indemnification to the maximum extent permitted by law.


 


    We and our directors and officers in their capacities as such
    are insured against liability for alleged wrongful acts (to the
    extent defined) under eight insurance policies providing
    aggregate coverage in the amount of $185 million.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    There are various risks associated with the operations of DTE
    Energy’s utility and non-utility businesses. To provide a
    framework to understand the operating environment of DTE Energy,
    we are providing a brief explanation of the more significant
    risks associated with our businesses. Although we have tried to
    identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in
    the future. Each of the following risks could affect our
    performance.


 


    Regional and national economic conditions can have an
    unfavorable impact on us.  Our utility and
    non-utility businesses follow the economic cycles of the
    customers we serve. Our utilities and certain non-utility
    businesses provide services to the domestic automotive industry
    which is under considerable financial distress, exacerbating the
    decline in regional economic conditions. Should national or
    regional economic conditions further decline, reduced volumes of
    electricity and gas, and demand for energy services we supply,
    collections of accounts receivable and potentially higher levels
    of lost or stolen gas will result in decreased earnings and cash
    flow.


 


    Adverse changes in our credit ratings may negatively affect
    us.  Regional and national economic
    conditions, increased scrutiny of the energy industry and
    regulatory changes, as well as changes in our economic
    performance, could result in credit agencies reexamining our
    credit rating. While credit ratings reflect the opinions of the
    credit agencies issuing such ratings and may not necessarily
    reflect actual performance, a downgrade in our credit rating
    could restrict or discontinue our ability to access capital
    markets and could result in an increase in our borrowing costs,
    a reduced level of capital expenditures and could impact future
    earnings and cash flows. In addition, a reduction in credit
    rating may require us to post collateral related to various
    physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase of
    energy-related commodities, products and services, which would
    impact our liquidity.


 


    Our ability to access capital markets at attractive interest
    rates is important.  Our ability to access capital
    markets is important to operate our businesses. In recent
    months, the global financial markets have experienced
    unprecedented instability. This systemic marketplace distress is
    impacting our access to capital and cost of capital. This recent
    turmoil in credit markets has constrained, and may again in the
    future constrain, our ability as well as the ability of our
    subsidiaries to issue new debt, including commercial paper, and
    refinance existing debt. We cannot predict the length of time
    the current worldwide credit situation will continue or the
    impact on our future operations and our ability to issue debt at
    reasonable interest rates. In addition, the level of borrowing
    by other energy companies and the market as a whole could limit
    our access to capital markets. We have substantial amounts of
    short-term credit facilities that expire in 2009. We intend to
    seek to renew the facilities on or before the expiration dates.
    However, we cannot predict the outcome of these efforts, which
    could result in a decrease in amounts available and/ or an
    increase in our borrowing costs and negatively impact our
    financial performance.


 


    Poor investment performance of pension and other
    postretirement benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting
    benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and
    results of operations.  Our costs of providing
    non-contributory defined benefit pension plans and other
    postretirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of
    factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, the level
    of interest rates used to measure



    
    22



Table of Contents




    the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future
    government regulation, and our required or voluntary
    contributions made to the plans. The performance of the capital
    markets affects the value of assets that are held in trust to
    satisfy future obligations under our plans. We have significant
    benefit obligations and hold significant assets in trust to
    satisfy these obligations. These assets are subject to market
    fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall
    below our projected return rates. A decline in the market value
    of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, as was
    experienced in 2008, will increase the funding requirements
    under our pension and postretirement benefit plans if the actual
    asset returns do not recover these declines in the foreseeable
    future. Additionally, our pension and postretirement benefit
    plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As
    interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially
    increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. Also, if
    future increases in pension and postretirement benefit costs as
    a result of reduced plan assets are not recoverable from Detroit
    Edison or MichCon customers, the results of operations and
    financial position of our company could be negatively affected.
    Without sustained growth in the plan investments over time to
    increase the value of our plan assets, we could be required to
    fund our plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash
    funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash
    flows, financial position, or results of operations.


 


    If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to
    record a charge to earnings.  We annually review
    the carrying value of goodwill associated with acquisitions made
    by the Company for impairment. Factors that may be considered
    for purposes of this analysis include any change in
    circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill
    may not be recoverable such as a decline in stock price and
    market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth
    rates in our industry. We cannot predict the timing, strength or
    duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery,
    worldwide or in the economy or markets in which we operate,
    however, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
    the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, the
    Company may take a non-cash impairment charge, which could
    potentially materially impact our results of operations and
    financial position.


 


    Our participation in energy trading markets subjects us to
    risk.  Events in the energy trading industry have
    increased the level of scrutiny on the energy trading business
    and the energy industry as a whole. In certain situations we may
    be required to post collateral to support trading operations,
    which could be substantial. If access to liquidity to support
    trading activities is curtailed, we could experience decreased
    earnings potential and cash flows.


 


    We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom we
    do business.  Adverse economic conditions
    affecting, or financial difficulties of, counterparties with
    whom we do business could impair the ability of these
    counterparties to pay for our services or fulfill their
    contractual obligations, or cause them to delay such payments or
    obligations. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments
    on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could
    adversely affect our cash flows, financial position, or results
    of operations.


 


    We may not be fully covered by insurance.  We
    have a comprehensive insurance program in place to provide
    coverage for various types of risks, catastrophic damage as a
    result of acts of God, terrorism, war or a combination of other
    significant unforeseen events that could impact our operations.
    Economic losses might not be covered in full by insurance or our
    insurers may be unable to meet contractual obligations.


 


    We are subject to rate regulation.  Electric
    and gas rates for our utilities are set by the MPSC and the FERC
    and cannot be increased without regulatory authorization. We may
    be negatively impacted by new regulations or interpretations by
    the MPSC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies. Our ability to
    recover costs may be impacted by the time lag between the
    incurrence of costs and the recovery of the costs in
    customers’ rates. New legislation, regulations or
    interpretations could change how our business operates, impact
    our ability to recover costs through rate increases or require
    us to incur additional expenses.


 


    Michigan’s electric Customer Choice program could
    negatively impact our financial performance.  The
    electric Customer Choice program, as originally contemplated in
    Michigan, anticipated an eventual transition to a totally
    deregulated and competitive environment where customers would be
    charged market-based rates for their electricity. The State of
    Michigan currently experiences a hybrid market, where the MPSC
    continues to regulate electric rates for our customers, while
    alternative electric suppliers charge market-based rates. In
    addition, such regulated electric rates for certain groups of
    our customers exceed the cost of service to those



    
    23



Table of Contents




    customers. Due to distorted pricing mechanisms during the
    initial implementation period of electric Customer Choice, many
    commercial customers chose alternative electric suppliers. MPSC
    rate orders and recent energy legislation enacted by the State
    of Michigan are phasing out the pricing disparity over five
    years and have placed a cap on the total potential Customer
    Choice related migration. Recent higher wholesale electric
    prices have also resulted in some former electric Customer
    Choice customers migrating back to Detroit Edison for electric
    generation service. However, even with the electric Customer
    Choice-related relief received in recent Detroit Edison rate
    orders and the legislated 10 percent cap on participation
    in the electric Customer Choice program, there continues to be
    financial risk associated with the electric Customer Choice
    program. Electric Customer Choice migration is sensitive to
    market price and bundled electric service price increases.


 


    Weather significantly affects
    operations.  Deviations from normal hot and cold
    weather conditions affect our earnings and cash flow. Mild
    temperatures can result in decreased utilization of our assets,
    lowering income and cash flow. Ice storms, tornadoes, or high
    winds can damage the electric distribution system infrastructure
    and require us to perform emergency repairs and incur material
    unplanned expenses. The expenses of storm restoration efforts
    may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process.


 


    Operation of a nuclear facility subjects us to
    risk.  Ownership of an operating nuclear
    generating plant subjects us to significant additional risks.
    These risks include, among others, plant security, environmental
    regulation and remediation, and operational factors that can
    significantly impact the performance and cost of operating a
    nuclear facility. While we maintain insurance for various
    nuclear-related risks, there can be no assurances that such
    insurance will be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of
    an accident or business interruption at our nuclear generating
    plant, which may affect our financial performance.


 


    The supply and price of fuel and other commodities and
    related transportation costs may impact our financial
    results.  We are dependent on coal for much of our
    electrical generating capacity. Price fluctuations, fuel supply
    disruptions and increases in transportation costs could have a
    negative impact on our ability to profitably generate
    electricity. Our access to natural gas supplies is critical to
    ensure reliability of service for our utility gas customers. We
    have hedging strategies and regulatory recovery mechanisms in
    place to mitigate negative fluctuations in commodity supply
    prices, but there can be no assurances that our financial
    performance will not be negatively impacted by price
    fluctuations. The price of natural gas also impacts the market
    for our non-utility businesses that compete with utilities and
    alternative electric suppliers. Increased transportation costs
    could also impact our non-utility businesses.


 


    Unplanned power plant outages may be
    costly.  Unforeseen maintenance may be required to
    safely produce electricity or comply with environmental
    regulations. As a result of unforeseen maintenance, we may be
    required to make spot market purchases of electricity that
    exceed our costs of generation. Our financial performance may be
    negatively affected if we are unable to recover such increased
    costs.


 


    Our estimates of gas reserves are subject to
    change.  While we cannot provide absolute
    assurance that our estimates of our Barnett gas reserves are
    accurate, great care is exercised in utilizing historical
    information and assumptions to develop reasonable estimates of
    future production and cash flow. We estimate proved gas reserves
    and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves.
    There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating
    quantities of proved gas reserves and cash flows attributable to
    such reserves, including factors beyond our control. Reserve
    engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground
    accumulations of gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner.
    The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of
    cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the
    available data, assumptions regarding expenditures for future
    development and exploration activities, and of engineering and
    geological interpretation and judgment. Additionally, reserves
    and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or
    upward revisions, based upon production history, development and
    exploration activities and prices of gas. Actual future
    production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating
    expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of
    cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the
    assumptions and underlying information we used.


 


    Our ability to utilize production tax credits may be
    limited.  To reduce U.S. dependence on
    imported oil, the Internal Revenue Code provides production tax
    credits as an incentive for taxpayers to produce fuels and
    electricity from alternative sources. We have generated
    production tax credits from the synfuel, coke



    
    24



Table of Contents




    production, landfill gas recovery, biomass fired electric
    generation and gas production operations. We have received
    favorable private letter rulings on all of the synfuel
    facilities. All production tax credits taken after 2003 are
    subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). If our
    production tax credits were disallowed in whole or in part as a
    result of an IRS audit, there could be additional tax
    liabilities owed for previously recognized tax credits that
    could significantly impact our earnings and cash flows. We have
    also provided certain guarantees and indemnities in conjunction
    with the sales of interests in the synfuel facilities.


 


    We rely on cash flows from subsidiaries.  DTE
    Energy is a holding company. Cash flows from our utility and
    non-utility subsidiaries are required to pay interest expenses
    and dividends on DTE Energy debt and securities. Should a major
    subsidiary not be able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows
    to DTE Energy, our ability to pay interest and dividends would
    be restricted.


 


    Environmental laws and liability may be
    costly.  We are subject to numerous environmental
    regulations. These regulations govern air emissions, water
    quality, wastewater discharge, and disposal of solid and
    hazardous waste. Compliance with these regulations can
    significantly increase capital spending, operating expenses and
    plant down times. These laws and regulations require us to seek
    a variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and
    other regulatory approvals. Additionally, we may become a
    responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified
    by a regulatory body. We cannot predict with certainty the
    amount and timing of future expenditures related to
    environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating
    clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying
    liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and
    several liability on potentially responsible parties.


 


    We may also incur liabilities as a result of potential future
    requirements to address climate change issues. Proposals for
    voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed
    both in the United States and worldwide to reduce greenhouse
    gases such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil
    fuels. If increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions are
    implemented, the operations of our fossil-fuel generation assets
    may be significantly impacted.


 


    Since there can be no assurances that environmental costs may be
    recovered through the regulatory process, our financial
    performance may be negatively impacted as a result of
    environmental matters.


 


    Terrorism could affect our business.  Damage to
    downstream infrastructure or our own assets by terrorism would
    impact our operations. We have increased security as a result of
    past events and further security increases are possible.


 


    Benefits of continuous improvement initiatives could be less
    than we expect.  We have a continuous improvement
    program that is expected to result in significant cost savings.
    Actual results achieved through this program could be less than
    our expectations.


 


    A work interruption may adversely affect
    us.  Unions represent approximately 5,000 of our
    employees. A union choosing to strike would have an impact on
    our business. We are unable to predict the effect a work
    stoppage would have on our costs of operation and financial
    performance.


 


    Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and
    other skilled professional and technical employees could have an
    adverse effect on our operations.  Our business is
    dependent on our ability to recruit, retain, and motivate
    employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is
    high and the inability to retain and attract these employees
    could adversely affect our business and future operating results.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B