. Risk FactorsThere are various risks associated with the operations of the Registrants' utility businesses and DTE Energy's non-utility businesses.  To provide a framework to understand the operating environment of the Registrants, below is a brief explanation of the more significant risks associated with their businesses.  Although the Registrants have tried to identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in the future.  Each of the following risks could affect performance.The Registrants are subject to rate regulation.  Electric and gas rates for the utilities are set by the MPSC and the FERC and cannot be changed without regulatory authorization.  The Registrants may be negatively impacted by new regulations or interpretations by the MPSC, the FERC, or other regulatory bodies.  The Registrants' ability to recover costs may be impacted by the time lag between the incurrence of costs and the recovery of the costs in customers' rates.  Regulators also may decide to disallow recovery of certain costs in customers' rates if they determine that those costs do not meet the standards for recovery under current governing laws and regulations.  The Registrants' utilities typically self-implement base rate changes six months after rate case filings, in accordance with Michigan law.  However, if the final rates authorized by regulators in the final rate order are lower than the amounts the Registrants collected during the self-implementation period, the Registrants must refund the difference with interest.  Regulators may also disagree with the Registrants' rate calculations under the various mechanisms that are intended to mitigate the risk to their utilities related to certain aspects of the business.  If the Registrants cannot agree with regulators on an appropriate reconciliation of those mechanisms, it may impact the Registrants' ability to recover certain costs through customer rates.  Regulators may also decide to eliminate these mechanisms in future rate cases, which may make it more difficult for the Registrants to recover their costs in the rates charged to customers.  The Registrants cannot predict what rates the MPSC will authorize in future rate cases.  New legislation, regulations, or interpretations could change how the business operates, impact the Registrants' ability to recover costs through rates or the timing of such recovery, or require the Registrants to incur additional expenses.  The outcome of the current Michigan energy policy reform legislative process could impact the Registrants' recovery of costs through rates.Changes to Michigan's electric retail access program could negatively impact the Registrants' financial performance.  The State of Michigan currently experiences a hybrid market, where the MPSC continues to regulate electric rates for DTE Electric customers, while alternative electric suppliers charge market-based rates.  MPSC rate orders, and energy legislation enacted by the State of Michigan in 2008, have placed a 10% cap on the total potential retail access migration.  However, even with the legislated 10% cap on participation, there continues to be legislative and financial risk associated with the electric retail access program.  Electric retail access migration is sensitive to market price and full service electric price changes.  The Registrants are required under current regulation to provide full service to retail access customers that choose to return, potentially resulting in the need for additional generating capacity.  The outcome of the current Michigan energy policy reform legislative process could impact the Registrants' recovery of costs through rates.The MISO regional energy market, including the State of Michigan, is expected to face capacity constraints beginning in 2016, due primarily to the retirement of coal-fired generation caused by increasingly stringent environmental requirements.  Significant investment in new natural gas-fired generation and renewables will be required.  Under the current regulatory structure, retail access customers do not fund capacity costs, potentially impacting electric supply reliability and utility customer affordability.Environmental laws and liability may be costly.  The Registrants are subject to, and affected by, numerous environmental regulations.  These regulations govern air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharge, and disposal of solid and hazardous waste.  Compliance with these regulations can significantly increase capital spending, operating expenses, and plant down times, and can negatively affect the affordability of the rates charged to customers.Uncertainty around future environmental regulations creates difficulty planning long-term capital projects in the Registrants' generation fleet and, for DTE Energy, gas distribution businesses.  These laws and regulations require the Registrants to seek a variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections, and other regulatory approvals.  The Registrants could be required to install expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease activities, including the retirement of certain generating plants, based on these regulations.  Additionally, the Registrants may become a responsible party for environmental cleanup at sites identified by a regulatory body.  The Registrants cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating cleanup costs.  There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on potentially responsible parties. 18The Registrants may also incur liabilities as a result of potential future requirements to address climate change issues.  Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce GHGs such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil fuels.  If increased regulations of GHG emissions are implemented, the operations of DTE Electric's fossil-fueled generation assets may be significantly impacted.  Since there can be no assurances that environmental costs may be recovered through the regulatory process, the Registrants' financial performance may be negatively impacted as a result of environmental matters.For DTE Energy, future environmental regulation of natural gas extraction techniques, including hydraulic fracturing, being discussed both at the United States federal level and by some states may affect the profitability of natural gas extraction businesses which could affect demand for, and profitability of, DTE Energy's gas transportation businesses.Operation of a nuclear facility subjects the Registrants to risk.  Ownership of an operating nuclear generating plant subjects the Registrants to significant additional risks.  These risks include, among others, plant security, environmental regulation and remediation, changes in federal nuclear regulation, increased capital expenditures to meet industry requirements, and operational factors that can significantly impact the performance and cost of operating a nuclear facility.  While the Registrants maintain insurance for various nuclear-related risks, there can be no assurances that such insurance will be sufficient to cover the Registrants' costs in the event of an accident or business interruption at the nuclear generating plant, which may affect the Registrants' financial performance.  In addition, while the Registrants have a nuclear decommissioning trust fund to finance the decommissioning of the nuclear generating plant, there can be no assurances that such fund will be sufficient to fund the cost of decommissioning.The supply and/or price of energy commodities and/or related services may impact the Registrants' financial results.  The Registrants are dependent on coal for much of their electrical generating capacity.  DTE Energy's access to natural gas supplies is critical to ensure reliability of service for utility gas customers.  DTE Energy's non-utility businesses are also dependent upon supplies and prices of energy commodities and services.  Price fluctuations, fuel supply disruptions, and changes in transportation costs, could have a negative impact on the amounts DTE Electric charges utility customers for electricity and DTE Gas charges utility customers for gas and on the profitability of DTE Energy's non-utility businesses.  The Registrants have hedging strategies and regulatory recovery mechanisms in place to mitigate some of the negative fluctuations in commodity supply prices in their utility and, for DTE Energy, non-utility businesses, but there can be no assurances that the Registrants' financial performance will not be negatively impacted by price fluctuations.  The price of energy also impacts the market for DTE Energy's non-utility businesses that compete with utilities and alternative electric suppliers.The supply and/or price of other industrial raw and finished inputs and/or related services may impact the Registrants' financial results.  The Registrants are dependent on supplies of certain commodities, such as copper and limestone, among others, and industrial materials, and services in order to maintain day-to-day operations and maintenance of their facilities.  Price fluctuations, or supply interruptions for these commodities and other items, could have a negative impact on the amounts charged to customers for the Registrants' utility products and, for DTE Energy, on the profitability of the non-utility businesses.Adverse changes in the Registrants' credit ratings may negatively affect them.  Regional and national economic conditions, increased scrutiny of the energy industry and regulatory changes, as well as changes in the Registrants' economic performance, could result in credit agencies reexamining their credit ratings.  While credit ratings reflect the opinions of the credit agencies issuing such ratings and may not necessarily reflect actual performance, a downgrade in the Registrants' credit ratings below investment grade could restrict or discontinue their ability to access capital markets and could result in an increase in their borrowing costs, a reduced level of capital expenditures, and could impact future earnings and cash flows.  In addition, a reduction in the Registrants' credit ratings may require them to post collateral related to various physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase of energy-related commodities, products, and services, which could impact their liquidity. 19Poor investment performance of pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets and other factors impacting benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact the Registrants' liquidity and results of operations.  The Registrants' costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, and the Registrants' required or voluntary contributions made to the plans.  The performance of the debt and equity markets affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Registrants' plans.  The Registrants have significant benefit obligations and hold significant assets in trust to satisfy these obligations.  These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants' projected return rates.  A decline in the market value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in the foreseeable future.  Additionally, the pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, resulting in increasing benefit expense and funding requirements.  Also, if future increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs as a result of reduced plan assets are not recoverable from the Registrants' utility customers, the results of operations and financial position of the Registrants could be negatively affected.  Without sustained growth in the plan investments over time to increase the value of plan assets, the Registrants could be required to fund these plans with significant amounts of cash.  Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on the Registrants' cash flows, financial position, or results of operations.The Registrants' ability to access capital markets is important.  The Registrants' ability to access capital markets is important to operate their businesses and to fund capital investments.  Turmoil in credit markets may constrain the Registrants' ability, as well as the ability of their subsidiaries, to issue new debt, including commercial paper, and refinance existing debt at reasonable interest rates.  In addition, the level of borrowing by other energy companies, and the market as a whole, could limit the Registrants' access to capital markets.  The Registrants' long-term revolving credit facilities do not expire until 2020, but the Registrants regularly access capital markets to refinance existing debt or fund new projects at the Registrants' utilities and DTE Energy's non-utility businesses, and the Registrants cannot predict the pricing or demand for those future transactions.Construction and capital improvements to the Registrants' power facilities and DTE Energy's distribution systems subject them to risk.  The Registrants are managing ongoing, and planning future, significant construction and capital improvement projects at multiple power generation and distribution facilities and DTE Energy's gas distribution system.  Many factors that could cause delays or increased prices for these complex projects are beyond the Registrants' control, including the cost of materials and labor, subcontractor performance, timing and issuance of necessary permits, construction disputes, and weather conditions.  Failure to complete these projects on schedule and on budget for any reason could adversely affect the Registrants' financial performance and operations at the affected facilities and businesses.DTE Energy's non-utility businesses may not perform to its expectations.  DTE Energy relies on non-utility operations for an increasing portion of earnings.  If DTE Energy's current and contemplated non-utility investments do not perform at expected levels, DTE Energy could experience diminished earnings and a corresponding decline in shareholder value.DTE Energy's participation in energy trading markets subjects it to risk.  Events in the energy trading industry have increased the level of scrutiny on the energy trading business and the energy industry as a whole.  In certain situations, DTE Energy may be required to post collateral to support trading operations, which could be substantial.  If access to liquidity to support trading activities is curtailed, DTE Energy could experience decreased earnings potential and cash flows.  Energy trading activities take place in volatile markets and expose DTE Energy to risks related to commodity price movements, deviations in weather, and other related risks.  DTE Energy's trading business routinely has speculative trading positions in the market, within strict policy guidelines DTE Energy sets, resulting from the management of DTE Energy's business portfolio.  To the extent speculative trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish DTE Energy's financial results and financial position.  DTE Energy manages its exposure by establishing and enforcing strict risk limits and risk management procedures.  During periods of extreme volatility, these risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities.DTE Energy's ability to utilize production tax credits may be limited.  To reduce U.S. dependence on imported oil, the Internal Revenue Code provides production tax credits as an incentive for taxpayers to produce fuels and electricity from alternative sources.  DTE Energy generated production tax credits from coke production, landfill gas recovery, reduced emission fuel, renewable energy generation, and gas production operations.  All production tax credits taken after 2013 are subject to audit by the IRS.  If DTE Energy's production tax credits were disallowed in whole or in part as a result of an IRS audit, there could be additional tax liabilities owed for previously recognized tax credits that could significantly impact DTE Energy's earnings and cash flows. 20Weather significantly affects operations.  At both utilities, deviations from normal hot and cold weather conditions affect the Registrants' earnings and cash flows.  Mild temperatures can result in decreased utilization of the Registrants' assets, lowering income and cash flows.  At DTE Electric, ice storms, tornadoes, or high winds can damage the electric distribution system infrastructure and power generation facilities and require it to perform emergency repairs and incur material unplanned expenses.  The expenses of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process.  DTE Gas can experience higher than anticipated expenses from emergency repairs on its gas distribution infrastructure required as a result of weather related issues.Unplanned power plant outages may be costly.  Unforeseen maintenance may be required to safely produce electricity or comply with environmental regulations.  As a result of unforeseen maintenance, the Registrants may be required to make spot market purchases of electricity that exceed the costs of generation.  The Registrants' financial performance may be negatively affected if unable to recover such increased costs.DTE Energy relies on cash flows from subsidiaries.  DTE Energy is a holding company.  Cash flows from the utility and non-utility subsidiaries are required to pay interest expenses and dividends on DTE Energy debt and securities.  Should a major subsidiary not be able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to DTE Energy, its ability to pay interest and dividends would be restricted.Renewable portfolio standards and energy efficiency programs may affect the Registrants' business.  The Registrants are subject to existing Michigan, and potential future, federal legislation and regulation requiring them to secure sources of renewable energy.  The Registrants have complied with the existing state legislation, but do not know what requirements may be added by federal legislation.  In addition, there could be additional state requirements increasing the percentage of power required to be provided by renewable energy sources.  The Registrants cannot predict the financial impact or costs associated with complying with potential future legislation and regulations.  Compliance with these requirements can significantly increase capital expenditures and operating expenses and can negatively affect the affordability of the rates charged to customers.The Registrants are also required by Michigan legislation to implement energy efficiency measures and provide energy efficiency customer awareness and education programs.  These requirements necessitate expenditures, and implementation of these programs creates the risk of reducing the Registrants' revenues as customers decrease their energy usage.  The Registrants cannot predict how these programs will impact their business and future operating results.Regional, national and international economic conditions can have an unfavorable impact on the Registrants.  The Registrants' utility and DTE Energy's non-utility businesses follow the economic cycles of the customers they serve and credit risk of counterparties they do business with.  Should the financial conditions of some of DTE Energy's significant customers deteriorate as a result of regional, national or international economic conditions, reduced volumes of electricity and gas, and demand for energy services DTE Energy supplies, collections of accounts receivable, reductions in federal and state energy assistance funding, and potentially higher levels of lost gas or stolen gas and electricity could result in decreased earnings and cash flows.Threats of terrorism or cyber-attacks could affect the Registrants' business.  The Registrants may be threatened by problems such as computer viruses or terrorism that may disrupt the Registrants' operations and could harm the Registrants' operating results.  The Registrants' industry requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  Despite implementation of security measures, all of the Registrants' technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes.  If the Registrants' information technology systems were to fail and they were unable to recover in a timely way, the Registrants might be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants' business, operating results, and financial condition.In addition, the Registrants' generation plants and electrical distribution facilities and, for DTE Energy, gas pipeline and storage facilities, in particular may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt the Registrants' ability to produce or distribute some portion of their products.  The Registrants have increased security as a result of past events and may be required by regulators or by the future terrorist threat environment to make investments in security that the Registrants cannot currently predict. 21Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information could adversely affect the Registrants.  In connection with the Registrant's businesses, they collect and retain personally identifiable information of their customers, shareholders, and employees.  Customers, shareholders, and employees expect that the Registrants will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding.  A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, shareholder, employee, or Registrant data by cybercrime or otherwise could adversely impact the Registrants' reputation and could result in significant costs, fines, and litigation.Failure to attract and retain key executive officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could have an adverse effect on the Registrants' operations.  The Registrants' businesses are dependent on their ability to attract and retain skilled employees.  Competition for skilled employees in some areas is high, and the inability to attract and retain these employees could adversely affect the Registrants' business and future operating results.  In addition, the Registrants have an aging utility workforce, and the failure of a successful transfer of knowledge and expertise could negatively impact their operations.A work interruption may adversely affect the Registrants.  There are several bargaining units for DTE Energy's approximately 4,900 and DTE Electric's approximately 2,600 represented employees.  The majority of represented employees are under contracts that expire in 2016 and 2017.  A union choosing to strike would have an impact on the Registrants' businesses.  The Registrants are unable to predict the effect a work stoppage would have on their costs of operations and financial performance.If DTE Energy's goodwill becomes impaired, it may be required to record a charge to earnings.  DTE Energy annually reviews the carrying value of goodwill associated with acquisitions it has made for impairment.  Factors that may be considered for purposes of this analysis include any change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of DTE Energy goodwill may not be recoverable, such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in the industry.  DTE Energy cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery, worldwide or in the economy or markets in which it operates; however, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, DTE Energy may take a non-cash impairment charge, which could potentially materially impact DTE Energy's results of operations and financial position.The Registrants' businesses have safety risks.  The Registrants' electric distribution system, power plants, wind energy equipment, and other facilities, and DTE Energy's gas distribution system, gas infrastructure, and other facilities, could be involved in incidents that result in injury, death or property loss to employees, customers, or the public.  Although the Registrants have insurance coverage for many potential incidents, depending upon the nature and severity of any incident, they could experience financial loss, damage to their reputation, and negative consequences from regulatory agencies or other public authorities.The Registrants may not be fully covered by insurance.  The Registrants have a comprehensive insurance program in place to provide coverage for various types of risks, including catastrophic damage as a result of acts of God, terrorism, or a combination of other significant unforeseen events that could impact the Registrants' operations.  Economic losses might not be covered in full by insurance, or the Registrants' insurers may be unable to meet contractual obligations.Item 1B