.  Risk FactorsThere are various risks associated with the operations of DTE Energy's utility and non-utility businesses.  To provide a framework to understand the operating environment of DTE Energy, we are providing a brief explanation of the more significant risks associated with our businesses.  Although we have tried to identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in the future.  Each of the following risks could affect our performance.We are subject to rate regulation.  Electric and gas rates for our utilities are set by the MPSC and the FERC and cannot be changed without regulatory authorization.  We may be negatively impacted by new regulations or interpretations by the MPSC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies.  Our ability to recover costs may be impacted by the time lag between the incurrence of costs and the recovery of the costs in customers' rates.  Our regulators also may decide to disallow recovery of certain costs in customers' rates if they determine that those costs do not meet the standards for recovery under our governing laws and regulations.  Our utilities typically self-implement base rate changes six months after rate case filings in accordance with Michigan law.  However, if the final rates authorized by our regulators in the final rate order are lower than the amounts we collected during the self-implementation period, we must refund the difference with interest.  Our regulators may also disagree with our rate calculations under the various tracking and decoupling mechanisms that are intended to mitigate the risk to our utilities of certain aspects of our business.  If we cannot agree with our regulators on an appropriate reconciliation of those mechanisms, it may impact our ability to recover certain costs through our customer rates.  Our regulators may also decide to eliminate more of these mechanisms in future rate cases, which may make it more difficult for us to recover our costs in the rates we charge customers.  We cannot predict what rates an MPSC order will adopt in future rate cases.  New legislation, regulations or interpretations could change how our business operates, impact our ability to recover costs through rates or require us to incur additional expenses.Changes to Michigan's electric Customer Choice program could negatively impact our financial performance.  The electric Customer Choice program, as originally contemplated in Michigan, anticipated an eventual transition to a totally deregulated and competitive environment where customers would be charged market-based rates for their electricity.  The State of Michigan currently experiences a hybrid market, where the MPSC continues to regulate electric rates for our customers, while alternative electric suppliers charge market-based rates.  In addition, such regulated electric rates for certain groups of our customers exceed the cost of service to those customers.  Due to distorted pricing mechanisms during the initial implementation period of electric Customer Choice, many commercial customers chose alternative electric suppliers.  MPSC rate orders and 2008 energy legislation enacted by the State of Michigan are phasing out the pricing disparity over five years and have placed a 10 percent cap on the total potential Customer Choice related migration.  However, even with the electric Customer Choice-related relief received in prior DTE Electric rate orders and the legislated 10 percent cap on participation in the electric Customer Choice program, there continues to be legislative and financial risk associated with the electric Customer Choice program.  Electric Customer Choice migration is sensitive to market price and full service electric price changes.Environmental laws and liability may be costly.  We are subject to and affected by numerous environmental regulations.  These regulations govern air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharge and disposal of solid and hazardous waste.  Compliance with these regulations can significantly increase capital spending, operating expenses and plant down times and can negatively affect the affordability of the rates we charge to our customers. Uncertainty around future environmental regulations creates difficulty planning long-term capital projects in our generation fleet and gas distribution businesses.  These laws and regulations require us to seek a variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other regulatory approvals.  We could be required to install expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease activities based on these regulations.  Additionally, we may become a responsible party for environmental cleanup at sites identified by a regulatory body.  We cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs.  There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on potentially responsible parties.16Table of ContentsWe may also incur liabilities as a result of potential future requirements to address climate change issues.  Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil fuels.  If increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions are implemented, the operations of our fossil-fuel generation assets may be significantly impacted.  Since there can be no assurances that environmental costs may be recovered through the regulatory process, our financial performance may be negatively impacted as a result of environmental matters. Future environmental regulation of natural gas extraction techniques including hydraulic fracturing being discussed both at the United States federal level and by some states may affect the profitability of natural gas extraction businesses which could affect demand for and profitability of our gas transportation businesses. Operation of a nuclear facility subjects us to risk. Ownership of an operating nuclear generating plant subjects us to significant additional risks.  These risks include, among others, plant security, environmental regulation and remediation, changes in federal nuclear regulation and operational factors that can significantly impact the performance and cost of operating a nuclear facility.  While we maintain insurance for various nuclear-related risks, there can be no assurances that such insurance will be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption at our nuclear generating plant, which may affect our financial performance.The supply and/or price of energy commodities and/or related services may impact our financial results.  We are dependent on coal for much of our electrical generating capacity.  Our access to natural gas supplies is critical to ensure reliability of service for our utility gas customers.  Our non-utility businesses, including our energy transportation business, are also dependent upon supplies and prices of energy commodities and services.  Price fluctuations, fuel supply disruptions and changes in transportation costs could have a negative impact on the amounts we charge our utility customers for electricity and gas and on the profitability of our non-utility businesses.  We have hedging strategies and regulatory recovery mechanisms in place to mitigate some of the negative fluctuations in commodity supply prices in our utility and non-utility businesses, but there can be no assurances that our financial performance will not be negatively impacted by price fluctuations.  The price of energy also impacts the market for our non-utility businesses that compete with utilities and alternative electric suppliers or provide energy transportation services.The supply and/or price of other industrial raw and finished inputs and/or related services may impact our financial results.  We are dependent on supplies of certain commodities, such as copper and limestone, among others, and industrial materials and services in order to maintain day-to-day operations and maintenance of our facilities.  Price fluctuations or supply interruptions for these commodities and other items could have a negative impact on the amounts we charge our customers for our utility products and on the profitability of our non-utility businesses.Adverse changes in our credit ratings may negatively affect us.  Regional and national economic conditions, increased scrutiny of the energy industry and regulatory changes, as well as changes in our economic performance, could result in credit agencies reexamining our credit rating.  While credit ratings reflect the opinions of the credit agencies issuing such ratings and may not necessarily reflect actual performance, a downgrade in our credit rating below investment grade could restrict or discontinue our ability to access capital markets and could result in an increase in our borrowing costs, a reduced level of capital expenditures and could impact future earnings and cash flows.  In addition, a reduction in our credit rating may require us to post collateral related to various physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase of energy-related commodities, products and services, which could impact our liquidity.Poor investment performance of pension and other postretirement benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations.  Our costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plans.  The performance of the debt and equity markets affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under our plans.  We have significant benefit obligations and hold significant assets in trust to satisfy these obligations.  These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates.  A decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements under our pension and postretirement benefit plans if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in the foreseeable future.  Additionally, our pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, resulting in increasing benefit expense and funding requirements.  Also, if future increases in pension and postretirement benefit costs as a result of reduced plan assets are not recoverable from our utility customers, the results of operations and financial position of our company could be negatively affected.  Without sustained growth in the plan investments over time to increase the value of 17Table of Contentsour plan assets, we could be required to fund our plans with significant amounts of cash.  Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, financial position, or results of operations.Our ability to access capital markets is important.  Our ability to access capital markets is important to operate our businesses.  In the past, turmoil in credit markets has constrained, and may again in the future constrain, our ability as well as the ability of our subsidiaries to issue new debt, including commercial paper, and refinance existing debt at reasonable interest rates.  In addition, the level of borrowing by other energy companies and the market as a whole could limit our access to capital markets.  Our long term revolving credit facilities do not expire until 2016, but we regularly access capital markets to refinance existing debt or fund new projects at our utilities and non-utility businesses, and we cannot predict the pricing or demand for those future transactions. Construction and capital improvements to our power facilities and distribution systems subject us to risk. We are managing ongoing and planning future significant construction and capital improvement projects at multiple power generation and distribution facilities and our gas distribution system.  Many factors that could cause delays or increased prices for these complex projects are beyond our control, including the cost of materials and labor, subcontractor performance, timing and issuance of necessary permits, construction disputes and weather conditions.  Failure to complete these projects on schedule and on budget for any reason could adversely affect our financial performance and operations at the affected facilities and businesses.Our non-utility businesses may not perform to our expectations.  We rely on our non-utility operations for an increasing portion of our earnings.  If our current and contemplated non-utility investments do not perform at expected levels, we could experience diminished earnings and a corresponding decline in our shareholder value.Our participation in energy trading markets subjects us to risk.  Events in the energy trading industry have increased the level of scrutiny on the energy trading business and the energy industry as a whole.  In certain situations we may be required to post collateral to support trading operations, which could be substantial.  If access to liquidity to support trading activities is curtailed, we could experience decreased earnings potential and cash flows.  Energy trading activities take place in volatile markets and expose us to risks related to commodity price movements.  We routinely have speculative trading positions in the market, within strict policy guidelines we set, resulting from the management of our business portfolio.  To the extent speculative trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results and financial position.  We manage our exposure by establishing and enforcing strict risk limits and risk management procedures.  During periods of extreme volatility, these risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities.Our ability to utilize production tax credits may be limited.  To reduce U.S. dependence on imported oil, the Internal Revenue Code provides production tax credits as an incentive for taxpayers to produce fuels and electricity from alternative sources.  We generated production tax credits from coke production, landfill gas recovery, biomass fired electric generation, reduced emission fuel, renewable energy generation, steel industry fuel and gas production operations.  All production tax credits taken after 2010 are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).  If our production tax credits were disallowed in whole or in part as a result of an IRS audit, there could be additional tax liabilities owed for previously recognized tax credits that could significantly impact our earnings and cash flows.Weather significantly affects operations.  Deviations from normal hot and cold weather conditions affect our earnings and cash flow.  Mild temperatures can result in decreased utilization of our assets, lowering income and cash flow. Ice storms, tornadoes, or high winds can damage the electric distribution system infrastructure and power generation facilities and require us to perform emergency repairs and incur material unplanned expenses.  The expenses of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process.Unplanned power plant outages may be costly.  Unforeseen maintenance may be required to safely produce electricity or comply with environmental regulations.  As a result of unforeseen maintenance, we may be required to make spot market purchases of electricity that exceed our costs of generation.  Our financial performance may be negatively affected if we are unable to recover such increased costs.We rely on cash flows from subsidiaries.  DTE Energy is a holding company.  Cash flows from our utility and non-utility subsidiaries are required to pay interest expenses and dividends on DTE Energy debt and securities.  Should a major subsidiary not be able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to DTE Energy, our ability to pay interest and dividends would be restricted.Renewable portfolio standards and energy efficiency programs may affect our business.  We are subject to existing Michigan and potential future federal legislation and regulation requiring us to secure sources of renewable energy.  Under the 18Table of Contentscurrent Michigan legislation we will be required in the future to provide a specified percentage of our power from Michigan renewable energy sources.  We are implementing a strategy for complying with the existing state legislation, but we do not know what requirements may be added by federal legislation. In addition, there could be additional state requirements increasing the percentage of power required to be provided by renewable energy sources.  We are actively engaged in developing renewable energy projects and identifying third party projects in which we can invest.  We cannot predict the financial impact or costs associated with these future projects.We are also required by Michigan legislation to implement energy efficiency measures and provide energy efficiency customer awareness and education programs.  These requirements necessitate expenditures and implementation of these programs creates the risk of reducing our revenues as customers decrease their energy usage.  We do not know how these programs will impact our business and future operating results.Regional and national economic conditions can have an unfavorable impact on us.  Our utility and non-utility businesses follow the economic cycles of the customers we serve and credit risk of counterparties we do business with.  Should national or regional economic conditions deteriorate, reduced volumes of electricity and gas, and demand for energy services we supply, collections of accounts receivable, reductions in federal and state energy assistance funding, and potentially higher levels of lost gas or stolen gas and electricity could result in decreased earnings and cash flow.Threats of terrorism or cyber attacks could affect our business.  We may be threatened by problems such as computer viruses or terrorism that may disrupt our operations and could harm our operating results.  Our industry requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  Despite our implementation of security measures, all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes.  If our information technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we might be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.In addition, our generation plants, gas pipeline and storage facilities and electrical distribution facilities in particular may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products.  We have increased security as a result of past events and we may be required by our regulators or by the future terrorist threat environment to make investments in security that we cannot currently predict.Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information could adversely affect us.  In connection with our business we collect and retain personally identifiable information of our customers, shareholders and employees.  Our customers, shareholders and employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the United States regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding.  A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, shareholder, employee or DTE Energy data by cybercrime or otherwise could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation.Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could have an adverse effect on our operations.  Our business is dependent on our ability to recruit, retain, and motivate employees.  Competition for skilled employees in some areas is high and the inability to retain and attract these employees could adversely affect our business and future operating results. A work interruption may adversely affect us.  Unions represent approximately 4,900 of our employees.  Our contracts with several bargaining units for the majority of our represented employees are due to expire in June and October 2013.  We cannot predict the outcome of those negotiations.  A union choosing to strike would have an impact on our business.  We are unable to predict the effect a work stoppage would have on our costs of operation and financial performance.If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a charge to earnings.  We annually review the carrying value of goodwill associated with acquisitions made by the Company for impairment.  Factors that may be considered for purposes of this analysis include any change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry.  We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery, worldwide or in the economy or markets in which we operate; however, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, the Company may take a non-cash impairment charge, which could potentially materially impact our results of operations and financial position.We may not be fully covered by insurance.  We have a comprehensive insurance program in place to provide coverage for various types of risks, including catastrophic damage as a result of acts of God, terrorism or a combination of other significant 19Table of Contentsunforeseen events that could impact our operations.  Economic losses might not be covered in full by insurance or our insurers may be unable to meet contractual obligations.20Table of ContentsItem 1B