Item 1A. Risk Factors.”


 



    Availability
    of Reports


 


    Through our website,
    http://www.devonenergy.com,
    we make available electronic copies of the charters of the
    committees of our Board of Directors, other documents related to
    our corporate governance (including our Code of Ethics for the
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
    Accounting Officer), and documents we file or furnish to the
    SEC, including our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    as well as any amendments to these reports. Access to these
    electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as
    reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing them to the
    SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other
    governance documents and filings can be requested by writing to
    our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this
    report.



    
    11



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Our business activities, and the oil and gas industry in
    general, are subject to a variety of risks. If any of the
    following risk factors should occur, our profitability,
    financial condition or liquidity could be materially impacted.
    As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of
    their investment in Devon.


 



    Oil,
    Natural Gas and NGL Prices are Volatile


 


    Our financial results are highly dependent on the prices of and
    demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs. A significant downward
    movement of the prices for these commodities could have a
    material adverse effect on our estimated proved reserves,
    revenues and operating cash flows, as well as the level of
    planned drilling activities. Such a downward price movement
    could also have a material adverse effect on our profitability,
    the carrying value of our oil and gas properties and future
    growth. Historically, prices have been volatile and are likely
    to continue to be volatile in the future due to numerous factors
    beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited
    to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consumer demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs;




 



     
        • 

    
    conservation efforts;




 



     
        • 

    
    OPEC production levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather;




 



     
        • 

    
    regional market pricing differences;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing quality of oil produced (i.e., sweet crude versus
    heavy or sour crude) and Btu content of gas produced;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of imports and exports of oil, natural gas and NGLs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall economic environment; and




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental regulations and taxes.





 



    Estimates
    of Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Reserves are Uncertain


 


    The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex
    and requires significant judgment in the evaluation of available
    geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir,
    particularly for new discoveries. Because of the high degree of
    judgment involved, different reserve engineers may develop
    different estimates of reserve quantities and related revenue
    based on the same data. In addition, the reserve estimates for a
    given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result
    of several factors including additional development activity,
    the viability of production under varying economic conditions
    and variations in production levels and associated costs.
    Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates
    may occur as a result of changes in any of these factors. Such
    revisions to proved reserves could have a material adverse
    effect on our estimates of future net revenue, as well as our
    financial condition and profitability. Additional discussion of
    our policies regarding estimating and recording reserves is
    described in “Item 2. Properties — Proved
    Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenue.”


 



    Discoveries
    or Acquisitions of Additional Reserves are Needed to Avoid a
    Material Decline in Reserves and Production


 


    The production rate from oil and gas properties generally
    declines as reserves are depleted, while related per unit
    production costs generally increase, due to decreasing reservoir
    pressures and other factors. Therefore, our estimated proved
    reserves and future oil, gas and NGL production will decline
    materially as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful
    exploration and development activities or, through engineering
    studies, identify additional producing zones in existing wells,
    secondary recovery reserves or tertiary recovery reserves, or
    acquire additional properties containing proved reserves.
    Consequently, our future oil, gas and NGL



    
    12



Table of Contents




    production and related per unit production costs are highly
    dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring
    additional reserves.


 



    Future
    Exploration and Drilling Results are Uncertain and Involve
    Substantial Costs


 


    Substantial costs are often required to locate and acquire
    properties and drill exploratory wells. Such activities are
    subject to numerous risks, including the risk that we will not
    encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. The
    costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain. In
    addition, oil and gas properties can become damaged or drilling
    operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of
    a variety of factors including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in reservoir formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;




 



     
        • 

    
    marine risks such as capsizing, collisions and hurricanes;




 



     
        • 

    
    other adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of access to pipelines or other methods of transportation;




 



     
        • 

    
    environmental hazards or liabilities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.





 


    A significant occurrence of one of these factors could result in
    a partial or total loss of our investment in a particular
    property. In addition, drilling activities may not be successful
    in establishing proved reserves. Such a failure could have an
    adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial
    condition. While both exploratory and developmental drilling
    activities involve these risks, exploratory drilling involves
    greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial
    quantities of hydrocarbons. We are currently performing
    exploratory drilling activities in certain international
    countries. We have been granted drilling concessions in these
    countries that require commitments on our behalf to incur
    capital expenditures. Even if future drilling activities are
    unsuccessful in establishing proved reserves, we will likely be
    required to fulfill our commitments to make such capital
    expenditures.


 



    Industry
    Competition For Leases, Materials, People and Capital Can Be
    Significant


 


    Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas
    industry. We compete with major integrated and other independent
    oil and gas companies for the acquisition of oil and gas leases
    and properties. We also compete for the equipment and personnel
    required to explore, develop and operate properties. Competition
    is also prevalent in the marketing of oil, gas and NGLs. Higher
    recent commodity prices have increased drilling and operating
    costs. Higher prices have also increased the costs of properties
    available for acquisition, and there are a greater number of
    publicly traded companies and private-equity firms with the
    financial resources to pursue acquisition opportunities. Certain
    of our competitors have financial and other resources
    substantially larger than ours, and they have also established
    strategic long-term positions and maintain strong governmental
    relationships in countries in which we may seek new entry. As a
    consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding
    for drilling rights. In addition, many of our larger competitors
    may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that
    affect demand for oil and natural gas production, such as
    changing worldwide prices and levels of production, the cost and
    availability of alternative fuels and the application of
    government regulations.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    International
    Operations Have Uncertain Political, Economic and Other
    Risks


 


    Our operations outside North America are based primarily in
    Azerbaijan, Brazil and China. We also have operations in various
    countries in West Africa that we intend to sell in 2008. In
    these areas outside of North America, we face political and
    economic risks and other uncertainties that are more prevalent
    than what exist for our operations in North America. Such
    factors include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general strikes and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation, forced
    renegotiation or modification of existing contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    import and export regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and
    retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    transportation regulations and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other
    activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments
    or the movement of funds;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade,
    including trade sanctions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of
    foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to
    licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we
    currently operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the
    jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in enforcing our rights against a governmental
    agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign
    sovereignty over international operations.





 


    Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and
    gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims
    superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to
    us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or
    be lost. Even our smaller international assets may affect our
    overall business and results of operations by distracting
    management’s attention from our more significant assets.
    Various regions of the world have a history of political and
    economic instability. This instability could result in new
    governments or the adoption of new policies that might result in
    a substantially more hostile attitude toward foreign investment.
    In an extreme case, such a change could result in termination of
    contract rights and expropriation of foreign-owned assets. This
    could adversely affect our interests and our future
    profitability.


 


    The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities
    may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our
    operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty
    surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign
    may affect operations in unpredictable ways, including
    disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and
    the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including
    pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and
    refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties
    of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur
    significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against
    terrorist activities.


 



    Government
    Laws and Regulations Can Change


 


    Our operations are subject to federal laws and regulations in
    the United States, Canada and the other countries in which we
    operate. In addition, we are also subject to the laws and
    regulations of various states, provinces and local governments.
    Pursuant to such legislation, numerous government departments
    and agencies have issued extensive rules and regulations binding
    on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of
    which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Changes
    in such legislation have affected, and at times in the future
    could affect, our operations. Political developments can
    restrict production levels, enact price controls, change
    environmental protection requirements, and increase taxes,
    royalties and other amounts payable to governments or
    governmental agencies. Although we are unable to predict changes
    to existing laws and regulations, such changes could
    significantly impact our profitability. While such legislation
    can change at



    
    14



Table of Contents




    any time in the future, those laws and regulations outside North
    America to which we are subject generally include greater risk
    of unforeseen change.


 



    Environmental
    Matters and Costs Can Be Significant


 


    As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties, we
    are subject to various federal, state, provincial, local and
    international laws and regulations relating to discharge of
    materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws
    and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us
    for the cost of pollution
    clean-up
    resulting from our operations in affected areas. Any future
    environmental costs of fulfilling our commitments to the
    environment are uncertain and will be governed by several
    factors, including future changes to regulatory requirements.
    There is no assurance that changes in or additions to laws or
    regulations regarding the protection of the environment will not
    have a significant impact on our operations and profitability.


 



    Insurance
    Does Not Cover All Risks


 


    Exploration, development, production and processing of oil,
    natural gas and NGLs can be hazardous and involve unforeseen
    occurrences such as hurricanes, blowouts, cratering, fires and
    loss of well control. These occurrences can result in damage to
    or destruction of wells or production facilities, injury to
    persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the environment.
    We maintain insurance against certain losses or liabilities in
    accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that
    management believes to be prudent. However, insurance against
    all operational risks is not available to us. Due to changes in
    the insurance marketplace following the 2005 hurricanes in the
    Gulf of Mexico, we currently have only a de minimis
    amount of coverage for any damage that may be caused by
    future named windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico.


 



    Our
    Short-Term Investments Are Subject To Risks Which May Affect
    Their Liquidity and Value


 


    To maximize earnings on available cash balances, we periodically
    invest in securities that we consider to be short-term in nature
    and generally available for short-term liquidity needs. Such
    investments include asset-backed securities that have an auction
    rate reset feature (“auction rate securities”). Our
    auction rate securities are collateralized by student loans
    which are substantially guaranteed by the United States
    government, and generally have contractual maturities of more
    than 20 years. However, the underlying interest rates on
    such securities are scheduled to reset every 28 days.
    Therefore, these auction rate securities are generally priced
    and subsequently trade as short-term investments because of the
    interest rate reset feature.


 


    At December 31, 2007, we held $372 million of auction
    rate securities. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, we have
    reduced our auction rate securities holdings to
    $153 million. However, beginning on February 8, 2008,
    we experienced difficulty selling additional securities due to
    the failure of the auction mechanism which provides liquidity to
    these securities. An auction failure means that the parties
    wishing to sell securities could not do so. The securities for
    which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest and
    be auctioned every 28 days until the auction succeeds, the
    issuer calls the securities or the securities mature.
    Accordingly, there may be no effective mechanism for selling
    these securities.


 


    All of our auction rate securities, including those subject to
    failed auctions, are currently rated AAA — the highest
    rating — by one or more rating agencies. However,
    these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity,
    market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by
    continued problems in the global credit markets, including but
    not limited to, U.S. subprime mortgage defaults, writedowns
    by major financial institutions due to deteriorating values of
    their asset portfolios (including leveraged loans,
    collateralized debt obligations, credit default swaps and other
    credit-linked products). These and other related factors have
    affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused
    credit and liquidity issues. If issuers are unable to
    successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings
    deteriorate, our ability to liquidate these securities and fully
    recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term
    may be limited. As a result, we may deem such investments to be
    long-term in nature and generally not available for short-term
    liquidity needs. Additionally, under such circumstances, we may
    record an impairment charge on these investments in the future.



    
    15



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1B