Item 1A. Risk Factors.”


 



    Availability
    of Reports


 


    Through our website,
    http://www.devonenergy.com,
    we make available electronic copies of the charters of the
    committees of our Board of Directors, other documents related to
    our corporate governance (including our Code of Ethics for the
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
    Accounting Officer), and documents we file or furnish to the
    SEC, including our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    as well as any amendments to these reports. Access to these
    electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as
    reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing them to the
    SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other
    governance documents and filings can be requested by writing to
    our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this
    report.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Our business activities, and the oil and gas industry in
    general, are subject to a variety of risks. If any of the
    following risk factors should occur, our profitability,
    financial condition or liquidity could be materially impacted.
    As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of
    their investment in Devon.


 



    Oil, Gas
    and NGL Prices are Volatile


 


    Our financial results are highly dependent on the general supply
    and demand for oil, gas and NGLs, which impact the prices we
    ultimately realize on our sales of these commodities. A
    significant downward movement of the prices for these
    commodities could have a material adverse effect on our
    revenues, operating cash flows and profitability. Such a
    downward price movement could also have a material adverse
    effect on our estimated proved reserves, the carrying value of
    our oil and gas properties, the level of planned drilling
    activities and future growth. Historically, market prices and
    our realized prices have been volatile and are likely to
    continue to be volatile in the future due to numerous factors
    beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited
    to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consumer demand for oil, gas and NGLs;




 



     
        • 

    
    conservation efforts;




 



     
        • 

    
    OPEC production levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather;




 



     
        • 

    
    regional pricing differentials;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing quality of oil produced (i.e., sweet crude versus
    heavy or sour crude);




 



     
        • 

    
    differing quality and NGL content of gas produced;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of imports and exports of oil, gas and NGLs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall economic environment; and




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental regulations and taxes.







    
    12



Table of Contents




 



    Estimates
    of Oil, Gas and NGL Reserves are Uncertain


 


    The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex
    and requires significant judgment in the evaluation of available
    geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir,
    particularly for new discoveries. Because of the high degree of
    judgment involved, different reserve engineers may develop
    different estimates of reserve quantities and related revenue
    based on the same data. In addition, the reserve estimates for a
    given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result
    of several factors including additional development activity,
    the viability of production under varying economic conditions
    and variations in production levels and associated costs.
    Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates
    may occur as a result of changes in any of these factors. Such
    revisions to proved reserves could have a material adverse
    effect on our estimates of future net revenue, as well as our
    financial condition and profitability. Additional discussion of
    our policies and internal controls related to estimating and
    recording reserves is described in “Item 2.
    Properties — Preparation of Reserves Estimates and
    Reserves Audits.”


 



    Discoveries
    or Acquisitions of Additional Reserves are Needed to Avoid a
    Material Decline in Reserves and Production


 


    The production rates from oil and gas properties generally
    decline as reserves are depleted, while related per unit
    production costs generally increase, due to decreasing reservoir
    pressures and other factors. Therefore, our estimated proved
    reserves and future oil, gas and NGL production will decline
    materially as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful
    exploration and development activities or, through engineering
    studies, identify additional producing zones in existing wells,
    secondary or tertiary recovery techniques, or acquire additional
    properties containing proved reserves. Consequently, our future
    oil, gas and NGL production and related per unit production
    costs are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding
    or acquiring additional reserves.


 



    Future
    Exploration and Drilling Results are Uncertain and Involve
    Substantial Costs


 


    Substantial costs are often required to locate and acquire
    properties and drill exploratory wells. Such activities are
    subject to numerous risks, including the risk that we will not
    encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. The
    costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain. In
    addition, oil and gas properties can become damaged or drilling
    operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of
    a variety of factors including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in reservoir formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of access to pipelines or other transportation methods;




 



     
        • 

    
    environmental hazards or liabilities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages or delays in the availability of services or delivery
    of equipment.





 


    A significant occurrence of one of these factors could result in
    a partial or total loss of our investment in a particular
    property. In addition, drilling activities may not be successful
    in establishing proved reserves. Such a failure could have an
    adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial
    condition. While both exploratory and developmental drilling
    activities involve these risks, exploratory drilling involves
    greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial
    quantities of hydrocarbons.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    Industry
    Competition For Leases, Materials, People and Capital Can Be
    Significant


 


    Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas
    industry. We compete with major integrated and other independent
    oil and gas companies for the acquisition of oil and gas leases
    and properties. We also compete for the equipment and personnel
    required to explore, develop and operate properties. Competition
    is also prevalent in the marketing of oil, gas and NGLs.
    Typically, during times of high or rising commodity prices,
    drilling and operating costs will also increase. Higher prices
    will also generally increase the costs of properties available
    for acquisition. Certain of our competitors have financial and
    other resources substantially larger than ours. They also may
    have established strategic long-term positions and relationships
    in areas in which we may seek new entry. As a consequence, we
    may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for drilling
    rights. In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a
    competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect
    demand for oil and gas production, such as changing worldwide
    price and production levels, the cost and availability of
    alternative fuels, and the application of government regulations.


 



    Midstream
    Capacity Constraints and Interruptions Impact Commodity
    Sales


 


    We rely on midstream facilities and systems to process our
    natural gas production and to transport our production to
    downstream markets. Such midstream systems include the systems
    we operate, as well as systems operated by a number of different
    third parties. When possible, we gain access to midstream
    systems that provide the most advantageous downstream market
    prices available to us.


 


    Regardless of who operates the midstream systems we rely upon, a
    portion of our production in any region may be interrupted or
    shut in from time to time due to loss of access to plants,
    pipelines or gathering systems. Such access could be lost due to
    a number of factors, including, but not limited to, weather
    conditions, accidents, field labor issues or strikes.
    Additionally, we and third-parties may be subject to constraints
    that limit our ability to construct, maintain or repair
    midstream facilities needed to process and transport our
    production. Such interruptions or constraints could negatively
    impact our production and associated profitability.


 



    Hedging
    Activities Limit Participation in Commodity Price Increases and
    Increase Exposure to Counterparty Credit Risk


 


    We periodically enter into hedging activities with respect to a
    portion of our production to manage our exposure to oil, gas and
    NGL price volatility. To the extent that we engage in price risk
    management activities to protect ourselves from commodity price
    declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits
    of commodity price increases above the prices established by our
    hedging contracts. In addition, our hedging arrangements may
    expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain
    circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties
    to our hedging contracts fail to perform under the contracts.


 



    Public
    Policy, Which Includes Laws, Rules and Regulations, Can
    Change


 


    Our operations are generally subject to federal laws, rules and
    regulations in the United States and Canada. In addition, we are
    also subject to the laws and regulations of various states,
    provinces, tribal and local governments. Pursuant to public
    policy changes, numerous government departments and agencies
    have issued extensive rules and regulations binding on the oil
    and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry
    substantial penalties for failure to comply. Changes in such
    public policy have affected, and at times in the future could
    affect, our operations. Political developments can restrict
    production levels, enact price controls, change environmental
    protection requirements, and increase taxes, royalties and other
    amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies.
    Existing laws and regulations can also require us to incur
    substantial costs to maintain regulatory compliance. Our
    operating and other compliance costs could increase further if
    existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted or if
    new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations.
    Although we are unable to predict changes to existing laws and
    regulations, such changes could significantly impact our
    profitability, financial condition and liquidity, particularly
    changes related to hydraulic fracturing, income taxes and
    climate change as discussed below.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    Hydraulic Fracturing — The U.S. Congress
    is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe
    Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used
    by the oil and natural-gas industry in the hydraulic-fracturing
    process. Currently, regulation of hydraulic fracturing is
    primarily conducted at the state level through permitting and
    other compliance requirements. This legislation, if adopted,
    could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting
    at the federal level.


 


    Income Taxes — The U.S. President’s
    recent budget proposals include provisions that would, if
    enacted, make significant changes to United States tax laws. The
    most significant change would eliminate the immediate deduction
    for intangible drilling and development costs.


 


    Climate Change — Policy makers in the United
    States are increasingly focusing on whether the emissions of
    greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane, are
    contributing to harmful climatic changes. Policy makers at both
    the United States federal and state level have introduced
    legislation and proposed new regulations that are designed to
    quantify and limit the emission of greenhouse gases through
    inventories and limitations on greenhouse gas emissions.
    Legislative initiatives to date have focused on the development
    of
    cap-and-trade
    programs. These programs generally would cap overall greenhouse
    gas emissions on an economy-wide basis and require major sources
    of greenhouse gas emissions or major fuel producers to acquire
    and surrender emission allowances.
    Cap-and-trade
    programs would be relevant to our operations because the
    equipment we use to explore for, develop, produce and process
    oil and natural gas emits greenhouse gases. Additionally, the
    combustion of carbon-based fuels, such as the oil, gas and NGLs
    we sell, emits carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.


 



    Environmental
    Matters and Costs Can Be Significant


 


    As an owner, lessee or operator of oil and gas properties, we
    are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal and
    local laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials
    into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and
    regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for
    the cost of pollution
    clean-up
    resulting from our operations in affected areas. Any future
    environmental costs of fulfilling our commitments to the
    environment are uncertain and will be governed by several
    factors, including future changes to regulatory requirements.
    There is no assurance that changes in or additions to public
    policy regarding the protection of the environment will not have
    a significant impact on our operations and profitability.


 



    Insurance
    Does Not Cover All Risks


 


    Exploration, development, production and processing of oil, gas
    and NGLs can be hazardous and involve unforeseen occurrence
    including, but not limited to blowouts, cratering, fires and
    loss of well control. These occurrences can result in damage to
    or destruction of wells or production facilities, injury to
    persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the environment.
    We maintain insurance against certain losses or liabilities in
    accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that
    management believes to be prudent. However, insurance against
    all operational risks is not available to us.


 



    International
    Operations Have Uncertain Political, Economic and Other
    Risks


 


    Our operations outside North America are based in Brazil and
    Angola. As noted earlier in this report, we are in the process
    of divesting our operations outside North America. However,
    until we cease operating in these locations, we face political
    and economic risks and other uncertainties in these areas that
    are more prevalent than what exist for our operations in North
    America. Such factors include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general strikes and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation, forced
    renegotiation or modification of existing contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    import and export regulations;







    
    15



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and
    retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    transportation regulations and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other
    activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments
    or the movement of funds;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade,
    including trade sanctions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of
    foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to
    licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we
    currently operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the
    jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency
    because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign
    sovereignty over international operations.





 


    Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and
    gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims
    superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to
    us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or
    be lost. These assets may affect our overall business and
    results of operations by distracting management’s attention
    from our more significant assets. Various regions of the world
    have a history of political and economic instability. This
    instability could result in new governments or the adoption of
    new policies that might result in a substantially more hostile
    attitude toward foreign investment. In an extreme case, such a
    change could result in termination of contract rights and
    expropriation of foreign-owned assets. This could adversely
    affect our interests and our future profitability.


 


    The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities
    may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our
    operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty
    surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign
    may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including
    disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and
    the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including
    pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and
    refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties
    of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur
    significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against
    terrorist activities.


 



    Certain
    of Our Investments Are Subject To Risks That May Affect Their
    Liquidity and Value


 


    To maximize earnings on available cash balances, we periodically
    invest in securities that we consider to be short-term in nature
    and generally available for short-term liquidity needs. During
    2007, we purchased asset-backed securities that have an auction
    rate reset feature (“auction rate securities”). Our
    auction rate securities generally have contractual maturities of
    more than 20 years. However, the underlying interest rates
    on our securities are scheduled to reset every seven to
    28 days. Therefore, when we bought these securities, they
    were generally priced and subsequently traded as short-term
    investments because of the interest rate reset feature. At
    December 31, 2010, our auction rate securities totaled
    $94 million.


 


    Since February 8, 2008, we have experienced difficulty
    selling our securities due to the failure of the auction
    mechanism, which provided liquidity to these securities. An
    auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell
    securities could not do so. The securities for which auctions
    have failed will continue to accrue interest and be auctioned
    every seven to 28 days until the auction succeeds, the
    issuer calls the securities or the securities mature. Due to
    continued auction failures throughout 2009 and 2010, we consider
    these investments to be long-term in nature and generally not
    available for short-term liquidity needs. Therefore, we have
    classified these investments as other long-term assets.


 


    Our auction rate securities are rated AAA — the
    highest rating — by one or more rating agencies and
    are collateralized by student loans that are substantially
    guaranteed by the United States government. These investments
    are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest
    rate risks, which may be exacerbated by problems in the global
    credit markets, including but not limited to, U.S. subprime
    mortgage defaults and writedowns by major financial institutions
    due to deteriorating values of their asset portfolios. These and
    other





    
    16



Table of Contents





    related factors have affected various sectors of the financial
    markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. If issuers are
    unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit
    ratings deteriorate, our ability to liquidate these securities
    and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the
    near term may be limited. Under such circumstances, we may
    record an impairment charge on these investments in the future.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B