Item 1A. Risk Factors.”




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Availability
    of Reports


 


    Through our website,
    http://www.devonenergy.com,
    we make available electronic copies of the charters of the
    committees of our Board of Directors, other documents related to
    our corporate governance (including our Code of Ethics for the
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
    Accounting Officer), and documents we file or furnish to the
    SEC, including our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    as well as any amendments to these reports. Access to these
    electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as
    reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing them to the
    SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other
    governance documents and filings can be requested by writing to
    our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this
    report.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Our business activities, and the oil and gas industry in
    general, are subject to a variety of risks. If any of the
    following risk factors should occur, our profitability,
    financial condition or liquidity could be materially impacted.
    As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of
    their investment in Devon.


 



    Oil, Gas
    and NGL Prices are Volatile


 


    Our financial results are highly dependent on the prices of and
    demand for oil, gas and NGLs. A significant downward movement of
    the prices for these commodities could have a material adverse
    effect on our revenues, operating cash flows and profitability.
    Such a downward price movement could also have a material
    adverse effect on our estimated proved reserves, the carrying
    value of our oil and gas properties, the level of planned
    drilling activities and future growth. Historically, prices have
    been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the
    future due to numerous factors beyond our control. These factors
    include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consumer demand for oil, gas and NGLs;




 



     
        • 

    
    conservation efforts;




 



     
        • 

    
    OPEC production levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather;




 



     
        • 

    
    regional pricing differentials;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing quality of oil produced (i.e., sweet crude versus
    heavy or sour crude) and Btu content of gas produced;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of imports and exports of oil, gas and NGLs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall economic environment; and




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental regulations and taxes.





 



    Estimates
    of Oil, Gas and NGL Reserves are Uncertain


 


    The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex
    and requires significant judgment in the evaluation of available
    geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir,
    particularly for new discoveries. Because of the high degree of
    judgment involved, different reserve engineers may develop
    different estimates of reserve quantities and related revenue
    based on the same data. In addition, the reserve estimates for a
    given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result
    of several factors including additional development activity,
    the viability of production under varying economic conditions
    and variations in production levels and associated costs.
    Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates
    may occur as a result of changes in any of these factors. Such
    revisions to proved reserves could have a material adverse
    effect on our estimates of future net revenue, as well as our
    financial condition and profitability.





    
    12



Table of Contents





    Additional discussion of our policies and internal controls
    related to estimating and recording reserves is described in
    “Item 2. Properties — Preparation of
    Reserves Estimates and Reserves Audits.”


 



    Discoveries
    or Acquisitions of Additional Reserves are Needed to Avoid a
    Material Decline in Reserves and Production


 


    The production rates from oil and gas properties generally
    decline as reserves are depleted, while related per unit
    production costs generally increase, due to decreasing reservoir
    pressures and other factors. Therefore, our estimated proved
    reserves and future oil, gas and NGL production will decline
    materially as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful
    exploration and development activities or, through engineering
    studies, identify additional producing zones in existing wells,
    secondary recovery reserves or tertiary recovery reserves, or
    acquire additional properties containing proved reserves.
    Consequently, our future oil, gas and NGL production and related
    per unit production costs are highly dependent upon our level of
    success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.


 



    Future
    Exploration and Drilling Results are Uncertain and Involve
    Substantial Costs


 


    Substantial costs are often required to locate and acquire
    properties and drill exploratory wells. Such activities are
    subject to numerous risks, including the risk that we will not
    encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. The
    costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain. In
    addition, oil and gas properties can become damaged or drilling
    operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of
    a variety of factors including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in reservoir formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;




 



     
        • 

    
    marine risks such as capsizing, collisions and hurricanes;




 



     
        • 

    
    other adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of access to pipelines or other transportation methods;




 



     
        • 

    
    environmental hazards or liabilities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    shortages or delays in the availability of services or delivery
    of equipment.





 


    A significant occurrence of one of these factors could result in
    a partial or total loss of our investment in a particular
    property. In addition, drilling activities may not be successful
    in establishing proved reserves. Such a failure could have an
    adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial
    condition. While both exploratory and developmental drilling
    activities involve these risks, exploratory drilling involves
    greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial
    quantities of hydrocarbons. We are currently performing
    exploratory drilling activities in certain international
    countries. We have been granted drilling concessions in these
    countries that require commitments on our behalf to incur
    capital expenditures. Even if future drilling activities are
    unsuccessful in establishing proved reserves, we will likely be
    required to fulfill our commitments to make such capital
    expenditures.


 



    Industry
    Competition For Leases, Materials, People and Capital Can Be
    Significant


 


    Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas
    industry. We compete with major integrated and other independent
    oil and gas companies for the acquisition of oil and gas leases
    and properties. We also compete for the equipment and personnel
    required to explore, develop and operate properties. Competition
    is also prevalent in the marketing of oil, gas and NGLs.
    Typically, during times of high or rising commodity prices,
    drilling and operating costs will also increase. Higher prices
    will also generally increase the costs of properties available
    for acquisition. Certain of our competitors have financial and
    other resources substantially





    
    13



Table of Contents





    larger than ours. They also may have established strategic
    long-term positions and relationships in areas in which we may
    seek new entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive
    disadvantage in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many
    of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when
    responding to factors that affect demand for oil and gas
    production, such as changing worldwide price and production
    levels, the cost and availability of alternative fuels, and the
    application of government regulations.


 



    International
    Operations Have Uncertain Political, Economic and Other
    Risks


 


    Our operations outside North America are based primarily in
    Azerbaijan, Brazil and China. As noted earlier in this report,
    we are in the process of divesting our operations outside North
    America. However, until we cease operating in these locations,
    we face political and economic risks and other uncertainties in
    these areas that are more prevalent than what exist for our
    operations in North America. Such factors include, but are not
    limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general strikes and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation, forced
    renegotiation or modification of existing contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    import and export regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and
    retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    transportation regulations and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other
    activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments
    or the movement of funds;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade,
    including trade sanctions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of
    foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to
    licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we
    currently operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the
    jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency
    because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign
    sovereignty over international operations.





 


    Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and
    gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims
    superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to
    us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or
    be lost. Even our smaller international assets may affect our
    overall business and results of operations by distracting
    management’s attention from our more significant assets.
    Various regions of the world have a history of political and
    economic instability. This instability could result in new
    governments or the adoption of new policies that might result in
    a substantially more hostile attitude toward foreign investment.
    In an extreme case, such a change could result in termination of
    contract rights and expropriation of foreign-owned assets. This
    could adversely affect our interests and our future
    profitability.


 


    The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities
    may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our
    operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty
    surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign
    may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including
    disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and
    the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including
    pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and
    refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties
    of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur
    significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against
    terrorist activities.


 



    Public
    Policy, Which Includes Laws, Rules and Regulations, Can
    Change


 


    Our operations are subject to federal laws, rules and
    regulations in the United States, Canada and the other countries
    in which we operate. In addition, we are also subject to the
    laws and regulations of various





    
    14



Table of Contents





    states, provinces, tribal and local governments. Pursuant to
    public policy changes, numerous government departments and
    agencies have issued extensive rules and regulations binding on
    the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of
    which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Changes
    in such public policy have affected, and at times in the future
    could affect, our operations. Political developments can
    restrict production levels, enact price controls, change
    environmental protection requirements, and increase taxes,
    royalties and other amounts payable to governments or
    governmental agencies. Although we are unable to predict changes
    to existing laws and regulations, such changes could
    significantly impact our profitability. While public policy can
    change at any time in the future, those laws and regulations
    outside North America to which we are subject generally include
    greater risk of unforeseen change.


 



    Environmental
    Matters and Costs Can Be Significant


 


    As an owner, lessee or operator of oil and gas properties, we
    are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal, local
    and international laws and regulations relating to discharge of
    materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws
    and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us
    for the cost of pollution
    clean-up
    resulting from our operations in affected areas. Any future
    environmental costs of fulfilling our commitments to the
    environment are uncertain and will be governed by several
    factors, including future changes to regulatory requirements.
    There is no assurance that changes in or additions to public
    policy regarding the protection of the environment will not have
    a significant impact on our operations and profitability.


 



    Insurance
    Does Not Cover All Risks


 


    Exploration, development, production and processing of oil, gas
    and NGLs can be hazardous and involve unforeseen occurrences
    such as hurricanes, blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well
    control. These occurrences can result in damage to or
    destruction of wells or production facilities, injury to
    persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the environment.
    We maintain insurance against certain losses or liabilities in
    accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that
    management believes to be prudent. However, insurance against
    all operational risks is not available to us. Due to changes in
    the insurance marketplace following hurricanes in the Gulf of
    Mexico in recent years, we currently do not have coverage for
    any damage that may be caused by future named windstorms in the
    Gulf of Mexico.


 



    Certain
    of Our Investments Are Subject To Risks That May Affect Their
    Liquidity and Value


 


    To maximize earnings on available cash balances, we periodically
    invest in securities that we consider to be short-term in nature
    and generally available for short-term liquidity needs. During
    2007, we purchased asset-backed securities that have an auction
    rate reset feature (“auction rate securities”). Our
    auction rate securities generally have contractual maturities of
    more than 20 years. However, the underlying interest rates
    on our securities are scheduled to reset every seven to
    28 days. Therefore, when we bought these securities, they
    were generally priced and subsequently traded as short-term
    investments because of the interest rate reset feature. At
    December 31, 2009, our auction rate securities totaled
    $115 million.


 


    Since February 8, 2008, we have experienced difficulty
    selling our securities due to the failure of the auction
    mechanism, which provided liquidity to these securities. An
    auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell
    securities could not do so. The securities for which auctions
    have failed will continue to accrue interest and be auctioned
    every seven to 28 days until the auction succeeds, the
    issuer calls the securities or the securities mature. Due to
    continued auction failures throughout 2009, we consider these
    investments to be long-term in nature and generally not
    available for short-term liquidity needs.


 


    Our auction rate securities are rated AAA — the
    highest rating — by one or more rating agencies and
    are collateralized by student loans that are substantially
    guaranteed by the United States government. These investments
    are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest
    rate risks, which may be exacerbated by problems in the global
    credit markets, including but not limited to, U.S. subprime
    mortgage defaults and writedowns by major financial institutions
    due to deteriorating values of their asset portfolios. These and
    other related factors have affected various sectors of the
    financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. If





    
    15



Table of Contents





    issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and
    their credit ratings deteriorate, our ability to liquidate these
    securities and fully recover the carrying value of our
    investment in the near term may be limited. Under such
    circumstances, we may record an impairment charge on these
    investments in the future.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B