Item 1A: 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which
    may affect our future financial performance. If any of the
    events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and
    financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could
    differ materially from our expectations and the market value of
    our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed
    below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional
    risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we
    currently do not believe are material that may harm our business
    and financial performance.


 


    Our business is highly dependent on the success and
    availability of video game hardware systems manufactured by
    third parties, as well as our ability to develop commercially
    successful products for these systems.


 


    We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play
    on video game hardware systems (which we also refer to as
    “platforms”) manufactured by third parties, such as
    Sony’s PlayStation 2 and PLAYSTATION 3,
    Microsoft’s Xbox 360 and Nintendo’s Wii. The success
    of our business is driven in large part by the commercial
    success and adequate supply of these video game hardware
    systems, our ability to accurately predict which systems will be
    successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop
    commercially successful products for these systems. We must make
    product development decisions and commit significant resources
    well in advance of anticipated product ship dates. A platform
    for which we are developing products may not succeed or may have
    a shorter life cycle than anticipated. If consumer demand for
    the systems for which we are developing products are lower than
    our expectations, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to
    fully recover the investments we have made in developing our
    products, and our financial performance will be harmed.
    Alternatively, a system for which we have not devoted
    significant resources could be more successful than we had
    initially anticipated, causing us to miss out on meaningful
    revenue opportunities.


 


    Our industry is cyclical and is beginning its next cycle.
    During the transition, consumers may be slower to adopt new
    video game systems than we anticipate, and our operating results
    may suffer and become more difficult to predict.


 


    Video game hardware systems have historically had a life cycle
    of four to six years, which causes the video game software
    market to be cyclical as well. Microsoft launched the Xbox 360
    in November 2005, while Sony and Nintendo launched the
    PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii, respectively, in November 2006. We
    have continued to develop and market new titles for
    prior-generation video game systems such as the PlayStation 2
    while also making significant investments in products for the
    new systems. As the prior-generation systems reach the end of
    their life cycle and the installed base of the new systems
    continues to grow, our sales of video games for prior-generation
    systems will continue to decline as (1) we produce fewer
    titles for prior-generation systems, (2) consumers replace
    their prior-generation systems with the new systems,
    and/or
    (3) consumers defer game software purchases until they are
    able to purchase a new video game hardware system. This decline
    in prior-generation product sales may be greater than we
    anticipate, and sales of products for the new platforms may be
    lower than we anticipate. Moreover, we expect development costs
    for the new video game systems to be greater on a per-title
    basis than development costs for prior-generation video game
    systems. As a result of these factors, during the next several
    quarters, we expect our operating results to be more volatile
    and difficult to predict, which could cause our stock price to
    fluctuate significantly.


 


    If we do not consistently meet our product development
    schedules, our operating results will be adversely affected.


 


    Our business is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of
    consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales
    occurring in the December quarter. In addition, we seek to
    release many of our products in conjunction with specific
    events, such as the release of a related movie or the beginning
    of a sports season or major sporting event. If we miss these key
    selling periods for any reason, including product delays or
    delayed introduction of a new platform for which we have
    developed products, our sales will suffer disproportionately.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Likewise, if a key event to which our product release schedule
    is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also
    suffer disproportionately. Our ability to meet product
    development schedules is affected by a number of factors,
    including the creative processes involved, the coordination of
    large and sometimes geographically dispersed development teams
    required by the increasing complexity of our products and the
    platforms for which they are developed, and the need to
    fine-tune our products prior to their release. We have
    experienced development delays for our products in the past,
    which caused us to push back release dates. In the future, any
    failure to meet anticipated production or release schedules
    would likely result in a delay of revenue
    and/or
    possibly a significant shortfall in our revenue, harm our
    profitability, and cause our operating results to be materially
    different than anticipated.


 


    Our business is intensely competitive and “hit”
    driven. If we do not continue to deliver “hit”
    products and services or if consumers prefer our
    competitors’ products or services over our own, our
    operating results could suffer.


 


    Competition in our industry is intense and we expect new
    competitors to continue to emerge in the United States and
    abroad. While many new products and services are regularly
    introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit”
    titles accounts for a significant portion of total revenue in
    our industry. Hit products or services offered by our
    competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we
    anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our
    products and services to fall below expectations. If our
    competitors develop more successful products or services, offer
    competitive products or services at lower price points or based
    on payment models perceived as offering a better value
    proposition (such as
    pay-for-play
    or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to
    develop consistently high-quality and well-received products and
    services, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline.


 


    Technology changes rapidly in our business and if we fail to
    anticipate or successfully implement new technologies or the
    manner in which people play our games, the quality, timeliness
    and competitiveness of our products and services will suffer.


 


    Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to
    anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we
    must implement and take advantage of in order to make our
    products and services competitive in the market. Therefore, we
    usually start our product development with a range of technical
    development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not
    be able to achieve these goals, or our competition may be able
    to achieve them more quickly and effectively than we can. In
    either case, our products and services may be technologically
    inferior to our competitors’, less appealing to consumers,
    or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the
    original development schedule of our products and services, then
    we may delay their release until these technology goals can be
    achieved, which may delay or reduce revenue and increase our
    development expenses. Alternatively, we may increase the
    resources employed in research and development in an attempt to
    accelerate our development of new technologies, either to
    preserve our product or service launch schedule or to keep up
    with our competition, which would increase our development
    expenses.


 


    The video game hardware manufacturers set the royalty rates
    and other fees that we must pay to publish games for their
    platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our
    costs. If one or more of these manufacturers adopt a different
    fee structure for future game consoles, our profitability will
    be materially impacted.


 


    In order to publish products for a video game system such as the
    Xbox 360, PLAYSTATION 3 or Wii, we must take a license from the
    manufacturer, which gives it the opportunity to set the fee
    structure that we must pay in order to publish games for that
    platform. Similarly, certain manufacturers have retained the
    flexibility to change their fee structures, or adopt different
    fee structures for online gameplay and other new features for
    their consoles. The control that hardware manufacturers have
    over the fee structures for their platforms and online access
    makes it difficult for us to predict our costs, profitability
    and impact on margins. Because publishing products for video
    game systems is the largest portion of our business, any
    increase in fee structures would significantly harm our ability
    to generate revenues
    and/or
    profits.



    
    14



Table of Contents



 


    The video game hardware manufacturers are among our chief
    competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of
    and/or
    access to our video game products. If they do not approve our
    products, we will be unable to ship to our customers.


 


    Our agreements with hardware licensors (such as Sony for the
    PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft for the Xbox 360, and Nintendo for
    the Wii) typically give significant control to the licensor over
    the approval and manufacturing of our products, which could, in
    certain circumstances, leave us unable to get our products
    approved, manufactured and shipped to customers. These hardware
    licensors are also among our chief competitors. Generally,
    control of the approval and manufacturing process by the
    hardware licensors increases both our manufacturing lead times
    and costs as compared to those we can achieve independently.
    While we believe that our relationships with our hardware
    licensors are currently good, the potential for these licensors
    to delay or refuse to approve or manufacture our products
    exists. Such occurrences would harm our business and our
    financial performance.


 


    We also require compatibility code and the consent of Microsoft,
    Sony and Nintendo in order to include online capabilities in our
    products for their respective platforms. As online capabilities
    for video game systems become more significant, Microsoft, Sony
    and Nintendo could restrict the manner in which we provide
    online capabilities for our products. If Microsoft, Sony or
    Nintendo refused to approve our products with online
    capabilities or significantly impacted the financial terms on
    which these services are offered to our customers, our business
    could be harmed.


 


    If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to
    intellectual property, we will publish fewer hit titles and our
    revenue, profitability and cash flows will decline. Competition
    for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our
    costs.


 


    Many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual
    property owned by others. For example, our EA SPORTS products
    include rights licensed from major sports leagues and
    players’ associations. Similarly, many of our other hit
    franchises, such as The Godfather, Harry Potter and Lord of the
    Rings, are based on key film and literary licenses. Competition
    for these licenses is intense. If we are unable to maintain
    these licenses or obtain additional licenses with significant
    commercial value, our revenues and profitability will decline
    significantly. Competition for these licenses may also drive up
    the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the
    licensor, which could significantly increase our costs.


 


    Our business is subject to risks generally associated with
    the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly
    harm our operating results.


 


    Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated
    with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our
    control. These risks could negatively impact our operating
    results and include: the popularity, price and timing of our
    games and the platforms on which they are played; economic
    conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer
    spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and
    popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews
    and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and
    cannot necessarily be predicted.


 


    If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel, we
    will be unable to effectively conduct our business.


 


    The market for technical, creative, marketing and other
    personnel essential to the development and marketing of our
    products and management of our businesses is extremely
    competitive. Our leading position within the interactive
    entertainment industry makes us a prime target for recruiting of
    executives and key creative talent. If we cannot successfully
    recruit and retain the employees we need, or replace key
    employees following their departure, our ability to develop and
    manage our businesses will be impaired.


 


    If patent claims continue to be asserted against us, we may
    be unable to sustain our current business models or profits, or
    we may be precluded from pursuing new business opportunities in
    the future.


 


    Many patents have been issued that may apply to widely-used game
    technologies, or to potential new modes of delivering, playing
    or monetizing game software products. For example, infringement
    claims under many issued patents are now being asserted against
    interactive software or online game sites. Several such claims



    
    15



Table of Contents




    have been asserted against us. We incur substantial expenses in
    evaluating and defending against such claims, regardless of the
    merits of the claims. In the event that there is a determination
    that we have infringed a third-party patent, we could incur
    significant monetary liability and be prevented from using the
    rights in the future, which could negatively impact our
    operating results. We may also discover that future
    opportunities to provide new and innovative modes of game play
    and game delivery to consumers may be precluded by existing
    patents that we are unable to license on reasonable terms.


 


    Other intellectual property claims may increase our product
    costs or require us to cease selling affected products.


 


    Many of our products include extremely realistic graphical
    images, and we expect that as technology continues to advance,
    images will become even more realistic. Some of the images and
    other content are based on real-world examples that may
    inadvertently infringe upon the intellectual property rights of
    others. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to
    ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual
    property rights of others, it is possible that third parties
    still may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive
    communications from third parties regarding such claims.
    Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid
    or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Such
    claims or litigations could require us to stop selling the
    affected products, redesign those products to avoid
    infringement, or obtain a license, all of which would be costly
    and harm our business.


 


    From time to time we may become involved in other legal
    proceedings which could adversely affect us.


 


    We are currently, and from time to time in the future may
    become, subject to other legal proceedings, claims, litigation
    and government investigations or inquiries, which could be
    expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business
    operations. In addition, the outcome of any legal proceedings,
    claims, litigation, investigations or inquiries may be difficult
    to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operating results, or financial condition.


 


    Our business, our products and our distribution are subject
    to increasing regulation of content, consumer privacy,
    distribution and online hosting and delivery in the key
    territories in which we conduct business. If we do not
    successfully respond to these regulations, our business may
    suffer.


 


    Legislation is continually being introduced that may affect both
    the content of our products and their distribution. For example,
    data and consumer protection laws in the United States and
    Europe impose various restrictions on our web sites. Those rules
    vary by territory although the Internet recognizes no
    geographical boundaries. Other countries, such as Germany, have
    adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those
    transmitted over the Internet that are stricter than current
    United States laws. In the United States, the federal and
    several state governments are continually considering content
    restrictions on products such as ours, as well as restrictions
    on distribution of such products. For example, recent
    legislation has been adopted in several states, and could be
    proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of
    certain games (e.g., violent games or those with “M
    (Mature)” or “AO (Adults Only)” ratings) to
    minors. Any one or more of these factors could harm our business
    by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers,
    by limiting the size of the potential market for our products,
    and by requiring costly additional differentiation between
    products for different territories to address varying
    regulations.


 


    If one or more of our titles were found to contain hidden,
    objectionable content, our business could suffer.


 


    Throughout the history of our industry, many video games have
    been designed to include certain hidden content and gameplay
    features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat
    codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance
    the gameplay experience. However, in several recent cases,
    hidden content or features have been found to be included in
    other publishers’ products by an employee who was not
    authorized to do so or by an outside developer without the
    knowledge of the publisher. From time to time, some hidden
    content and features have contained profanity, graphic violence
    and sexually explicit or otherwise objectionable material. In a
    few cases, the Entertainment Software Ratings Board
    (“ESRB”) has reacted to discoveries of hidden content
    and features by reviewing the rating that was originally
    assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the
    game packaging
    and/or
    fining the publisher. Retailers have



    
    16



Table of Contents




    on occasion reacted to the discovery of such hidden content by
    removing these games from their shelves, refusing to sell them,
    and demanding that their publishers accept them as product
    returns. Likewise, consumers have reacted to the revelation of
    hidden content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding
    refunds for games they’ve already purchased, and refraining
    from buying other games published by the company whose game
    contained the objectionable material.


 


    We have implemented preventative measures designed to reduce the
    possibility of hidden, objectionable content from appearing in
    the video games we publish. Nonetheless, these preventative
    measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding,
    and reasonable resource constraints. If a video game we
    published were found to contain hidden, objectionable content,
    the ESRB could demand that we recall a game and change its
    packaging to reflect a revised rating, retailers could refuse to
    sell it and demand we accept the return of any unsold copies or
    returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or
    demand that we refund their money. This could have a material
    negative impact on our operating results and financial
    condition. In addition, our reputation could be harmed, which
    could impact sales of other video games we sell. If any of these
    consequences were to occur, our business and financial
    performance could be significantly harmed.


 


    If we ship defective products, our operating results could
    suffer.


 


    Products such as ours are extremely complex software programs,
    and are difficult to develop, manufacture and distribute. We
    have quality controls in place to detect defects in the
    software, media and packaging of our products before they are
    released. Nonetheless, these quality controls are subject to
    human error, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints.
    Therefore, these quality controls and preventative measures may
    not be effective in detecting defects in our products before
    they have been reproduced and released into the marketplace. In
    such an event, we could be required to recall a product, or we
    may find it necessary to voluntarily recall a product,
    and/or scrap
    defective inventory, which could significantly harm our business
    and operating results.


 


    Our international net revenue is subject to currency
    fluctuations.


 


    For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, international net
    revenue comprised 46 percent of our total net revenue. We
    expect foreign sales to continue to account for a significant
    portion of our total net revenue. Such sales may be subject to
    unexpected regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers.
    Additionally, foreign sales are primarily made in local
    currencies, which may fluctuate against the U.S. dollar.
    While we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate
    some foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency
    denominated assets and liabilities (primarily certain
    intercompany receivables and payables) and, from time to time,
    foreign currency option contracts to hedge foreign currency
    forecasted transactions (primarily related to a portion of the
    revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currency generated
    by our operational subsidiaries), our results of operations,
    including our reported net revenue and net income, and financial
    condition would be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign
    currency fluctuations, particularly the Euro, British pound
    sterling and Canadian dollar.


 


    Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax
    liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial
    condition.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in
    various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required
    in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in
    the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions
    and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is
    uncertain.


 


    We are also required to estimate what our taxes will be in the
    future. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable,
    the estimation process and applicable laws are inherently
    uncertain, and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities.
    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by our profit
    level, by changes in our business, including the mix of earnings
    in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the
    elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws as well as
    other factors. Further, our tax determinations are regularly
    subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those
    audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should
    our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax
    provision and net income or loss could be materially affected.



    
    17



Table of Contents



 


    We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline
    proportionately with declines in our consolidated pre-tax income
    or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense
    will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower
    levels of pre-tax income or loss than higher levels. In
    addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our
    effective tax rate will be more volatile.


 


    In addition, the rules for tax accounting have recently been
    changed. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) issued FASB Interpretation (“FIN”)
    No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
    - An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”,
    which provides new rules for the accounting for uncertainty in
    income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance
    with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
    (“SFAS”) No. 109, “Accounting for Income
    Taxes” (see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements). We are evaluating what impact the
    adoption of FIN No. 48 will have on our Consolidated
    Financial Statements as it becomes effective in the first
    quarter of fiscal 2008. This impact could be material and our
    future effective tax rates could be more volatile.


 


    We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such
    as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and
    goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various
    foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under examination by tax
    authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. There can be
    no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes
    in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have
    an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition.


 


    Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by
    changes in financial accounting standards or by the application
    of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it
    evolves.


 


    As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the
    review of accounting policies by the SEC and national and
    international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of
    accounting policy changes may accelerate. For example, as
    discussed above, FIN No. 48 will affect the way we
    account for income taxes and could have a material impact on our
    financial results. Similarly, changes in accounting standards
    relating to stock-based compensation require us to recognize
    significantly greater expense than we had been recognizing prior
    to the adoption of the new standard. Likewise, policies
    affecting software revenue recognition have and could further
    significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to
    our products and services. For example, as our industry
    transitions to new video game hardware systems, we expect a more
    significant portion of our console and PC games will be
    online-enabled and, as a result, we will be required to
    recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time
    rather than at the time of sale. As we enhance, expand and
    diversify our business and product offerings, the application of
    existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly
    those relating to the way we account for revenue and taxes,
    could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results
    although not necessarily on our cash flows.


 


    We have begun the implementation of a new set of financial
    information systems in anticipation of a significant increase in
    deferred net revenue, which, if not completed in a successful
    and timely manner, could impede our ability to accurately
    process, prepare and analyze important financial data.


 


    We have begun to implement a new set of financial information
    systems and processes designed to help us accurately process,
    prepare and analyze the significant amount of net revenue from
    online-enabled packaged goods we expect to recognize on a
    deferred basis beginning in fiscal 2008. The successful
    implementation of these systems and processes entails a number
    of risks due to the complexity of the systems, the number of
    people affected company-wide, and the implementation process
    itself. While testing of these new systems and processes and
    training of employees are done in advance of implementation,
    there are inherent limitations in our ability to simulate a
    full-scale operating environment in advance of implementation.
    There can be no assurance that the implementation of these
    financial information systems and processes will not impede our
    ability to accurately and timely process, prepare and analyze
    the financial data we use in making operating decisions and
    which form the basis of the financial information we include in
    the periodic reports we file with the SEC.



    
    18



Table of Contents



 


    Changes in our worldwide operating structure or the adoption
    of new products and distribution models could have adverse tax
    consequences.


 


    As we expand our international operations, adopt new products
    and new distribution models, implement changes to our operating
    structure or undertake intercompany transactions in light of
    changing tax laws, expiring rulings, acquisitions and our
    current and anticipated business and operational requirements,
    our tax expense could increase. For example, in the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2006, we repatriated $375 million under
    the America Jobs Creation Act of 2004. As a result, we
    recognized an additional one-time tax expense in fiscal 2006 of
    $17 million.


 


    The majority of our sales are made to a relatively small
    number of key customers. If these customers reduce their
    purchases of our products or become unable to pay for them, our
    business could be harmed.


 


    In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, over
    70 percent of our U.S. sales were made to seven key
    customers. In Europe, our top ten customers accounted for
    approximately 31 percent of our sales in that territory
    during the year ended March 31, 2007. Worldwide, we had
    direct sales to two customers, Wal-Mart Stores and GameStop
    Corp., Inc., which represented approximately 13 percent and
    12 percent, respectively, of total net revenue in the year
    ended March 31, 2007. Though our products are available to
    consumers through a variety of retailers, the concentration of
    our sales in one, or a few, large customers could lead to a
    short-term disruption in our sales if one or more of these
    customers significantly reduced their purchases or ceased to
    carry our products, and could make us more vulnerable to
    collection risk if one or more of these large customers became
    unable to pay for our products. Additionally, our receivables
    from these large customers increase significantly in the
    December quarter as they stock up for the holiday selling
    season. Also, having such a large portion of our total net
    revenue concentrated in a few customers could reduce our
    negotiating leverage with these customers.


 


    Acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions
    could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our
    investors and other negative consequences.


 


    We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage
    in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic
    transactions, including (i) acquisitions of companies,
    businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets,
    (ii) minority investments in strategic partners, and
    (iii) investments in new interactive entertainment
    businesses (for example, online and mobile games). Any of these
    strategic transactions could be material to our financial
    condition and results of operations. Although we regularly
    search for opportunities to engage in strategic transactions, we
    may not be successful in identifying suitable opportunities. We
    may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or
    investments or an acquisition or investment may not enhance our
    business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. In
    addition, the process of integrating an acquired company or
    business, or successfully exploiting acquired intellectual
    property or other assets, could divert a significant amount of
    our management’s time and focus and may create unforeseen
    operating difficulties and expenditures. Additional risks we
    face include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and
    policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company
    that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls,
    procedures and policies,



 


     
        • 

    
    Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from
    an acquired company or business into our organization,



 


     
        • 

    
    Retaining key employees from the businesses we acquire,



 


     
        • 

    
    The need to integrate an acquired company’s accounting,
    management information, human resource and other administrative
    systems to permit effective management, and



 


     
        • 

    
    To the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside
    of the United States, we face additional risks, including risks
    related to integration of operations across different cultures
    and languages, currency risks and the particular economic,
    political and regulatory risks associated with specific
    countries.






    
    19



Table of Contents



 


    Future acquisitions and investments could involve the issuance
    of our equity securities, potentially diluting our existing
    stockholders, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or
    amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or
    acquired in-process technology, or other increased expenses, any
    of which could harm our financial condition. Our stockholders
    may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate
    future acquisitions or investments.


 


    Our products are subject to the threat of piracy by a variety
    of organizations and individuals. If we are not successful in
    combating and preventing piracy, our sales and profitability
    could be harmed significantly.


 


    In many countries around the world, more pirated copies of our
    products are sold than legitimate copies. Though we believe
    piracy has not had a material impact on our operating results to
    date, highly organized pirate operations have been expanding
    globally. In addition, the proliferation of technology designed
    to circumvent the protection measures we use in our products,
    the availability of broadband access to the Internet, the
    ability to download pirated copies of our games from various
    Internet sites, and the widespread proliferation of Internet
    cafes using pirated copies of our products, all have contributed
    to ongoing and expanding piracy. Though we take steps to make
    the unauthorized copying and distribution of our products more
    difficult, as do the manufacturers of consoles on which our
    games are played, these efforts may not be successful in
    controlling the piracy of our products. This could have a
    negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future.


 


    Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to
    fluctuate significantly.


 


    The market price of our common stock historically has been, and
    we expect will continue to be, subject to significant
    fluctuations. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific
    to us (including those discussed in the risk factors above as
    well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do
    not believe are material), to changes in securities
    analysts’ earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or
    future financial guidance falling below our expectations and
    analysts’ and investors’ expectations, to factors
    affecting the computer, software, Internet, entertainment, media
    or electronics industries, or to national or international
    economic conditions.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B