Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which
    may affect our future financial performance. If any of the
    events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and
    financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could
    differ materially from our expectations and the market value of
    our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed
    below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional
    risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we
    currently do not believe are material that may harm our business
    and financial performance.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Our business is highly dependent on the success and
    availability of video game hardware systems manufactured by
    third parties, as well as our ability to develop commercially
    successful products for these systems.


 


    We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play
    on video game hardware systems (which we also refer to as
    “platforms”) manufactured by third parties, such as
    Sony’s PlayStation 2 and PLAYSTATION 3,
    Microsoft’s Xbox 360 and Nintendo’s Wii. The success
    of our business is driven in large part by the commercial
    success and adequate supply of these video game hardware
    systems, our ability to accurately predict which systems will be
    successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop
    commercially successful products for these systems. We must make
    product development decisions and commit significant resources
    well in advance of anticipated product ship dates. A platform
    for which we are developing products may not succeed or may have
    a shorter life cycle than anticipated. If consumer demand for
    the systems for which we are developing products is lower than
    our expectations, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to
    fully recover the investments we have made in developing our
    products, and our financial performance will be harmed.
    Alternatively, a system for which we have not devoted
    significant resources could be more successful than we had
    initially anticipated, causing us to miss out on meaningful
    revenue opportunities.


 


    Our industry is cyclical, driven by the transition from older
    video game hardware systems to new ones. As we continue to move
    through the current cycle, our operating results may be volatile
    and difficult to predict.


 


    Video game hardware systems have historically had a life cycle
    of four to six years, which causes the video game software
    market to be cyclical as well. The current cycle began with
    Microsoft’s launch of the Xbox 360 in 2005, and
    continued in 2006 when Sony and Nintendo launched their
    next-generation systems, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii,
    respectively. During fiscal 2008, the installed base of each of
    these systems continued to expand and, as a result, sales of our
    products for these systems have also increased significantly. At
    the same time, however, demand for video games for
    prior-generation systems, particularly the original Xbox and the
    Nintendo GameCube, has declined significantly. Although we
    expect to continue developing and marketing new titles for the
    prior-generation PlayStation 2 in fiscal 2009, we only expect to
    release one title for the original Xbox and no titles for the
    Nintendo GameCube. As a result, we expect our sales of video
    games for prior-generation systems to continue to decline. The
    decline in prior-generation product sales, particularly the
    PlayStation 2, may be greater or faster than we anticipate, and
    sales of products for the new platforms may be lower or increase
    more slowly than we anticipate. Moreover, we expect development
    costs for the new video game systems to continue to be greater
    on a per-title basis than development costs for prior-generation
    video game systems. As a result of these factors, during the
    next several quarters, we expect our operating results to be
    more volatile and difficult to predict, which could cause our
    stock price to fluctuate significantly.


 


    If we do not consistently meet our product development
    schedules, our operating results will be adversely affected.


 


    Our business is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of
    consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales
    occurring in the December quarter. In addition, we seek to
    release many of our products in conjunction with specific
    events, such as the release of a related movie or the beginning
    of a sports season or major sporting event. If we miss these key
    selling periods for any reason, including product delays or
    delayed introduction of a new platform for which we have
    developed products, our sales will suffer disproportionately.
    Likewise, if a key event to which our product release schedule
    is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also
    suffer disproportionately. Our ability to meet product
    development schedules is affected by a number of factors,
    including the creative processes involved, the coordination of
    large and sometimes geographically dispersed development teams
    required by the increasing complexity of our products and the
    platforms for which they are developed, and the need to
    fine-tune our products prior to their release. We have
    experienced development delays for our products in the past,
    which caused us to push back release dates. In the future, any
    failure to meet anticipated production or release schedules
    would likely result in a delay of revenue
    and/or
    possibly a significant shortfall in our revenue, harm our
    profitability, and cause our operating results to be materially
    different than anticipated.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    Our business is intensely competitive and “hit”
    driven. If we do not continue to deliver “hit”
    products and services or if consumers prefer our
    competitors’ products or services over our own, our
    operating results could suffer.


 


    Competition in our industry is intense and we expect new
    competitors to continue to emerge in the United States and
    abroad. While many new products and services are regularly
    introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit”
    titles accounts for a significant portion of total revenue in
    our industry. Hit products or services offered by our
    competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we
    anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our
    products and services to fall below expectations. If our
    competitors develop more successful products or services, offer
    competitive products or services at lower price points or based
    on payment models perceived as offering a better value
    proposition (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models),
    or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality
    and well-received products and services, our revenue, margins,
    and profitability will decline.


 


    We have recently reorganized our business and operating
    structure. We may encounter a variety of issues in connection
    with the reorganization that could negatively impact our
    operating results, financial condition and ability to report our
    financial results.


 


    In an effort to streamline our internal decision-making
    processes, improve our global focus, and accelerate the process
    of bringing new ideas to market, we have reorganized our
    business into several new divisions, including four new labels.
    The reorganization presents a number of ongoing operational
    challenges, which, if not successfully managed, could cause our
    operating results to suffer in the near-term
    and/or delay
    or inhibit the anticipated benefits of the reorganization.
    Implementing any reorganization necessarily requires time and
    focus from all levels of the organization — time and
    focus that may be taken away from other business needs. For
    example, as our employees assume new responsibilities under the
    new structure, their responsibilities under the old structure
    may not be successfully re-assigned or adequately addressed,
    which could result in operational problems that negatively
    impact our financial condition and operating results. Similarly,
    as our employees’ roles and responsibilities change in a
    new structure, it is possible that we could experience a greater
    loss of key personnel than we have historically.


 


    Technology changes rapidly in our business and if we fail to
    anticipate or successfully implement new technologies or the
    manner in which people play our games, the quality, timeliness
    and competitiveness of our products and services will suffer.


 


    Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to
    anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we
    must implement and take advantage of in order to make our
    products and services competitive in the market. Therefore, we
    usually start our product development with a range of technical
    development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not
    be able to achieve these goals, or our competition may be able
    to achieve them more quickly and effectively than we can. In
    either case, our products and services may be technologically
    inferior to our competitors’, less appealing to consumers,
    or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the
    original development schedule of our products and services, then
    we may delay their release until these technology goals can be
    achieved, which may delay or reduce revenue and increase our
    development expenses. Alternatively, we may increase the
    resources employed in research and development in an attempt to
    accelerate our development of new technologies, either to
    preserve our product or service launch schedule or to keep up
    with our competition, which would increase our development
    expenses.


 


    The video game hardware manufacturers set the royalty rates
    and other fees that we must pay to publish games for their
    platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our
    costs. If one or more of these manufacturers change their fee
    structure, our profitability will be materially impacted.


 


    In order to publish products for a video game system such as the
    Xbox 360, PLAYSTATION 3 or Wii, we must take a license from the
    manufacturer, which gives it the opportunity to set the fee
    structure that we must pay in order to publish games for that
    platform. Similarly, certain manufacturers have retained the
    flexibility to change their fee structures, or adopt different
    fee structures for online gameplay and other new features for
    their consoles. The control that hardware manufacturers have
    over the fee structures for their platforms and



    
    16



Table of Contents




    online access could adversely impact our costs, profitability
    and margins. Because publishing products for video game systems
    is the largest portion of our business, any increase in fee
    structures would significantly harm our ability to generate
    revenues
    and/or
    profits.


 


    The video game hardware manufacturers are among our chief
    competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of
    and/or
    access to our video game products. If they do not approve our
    products, we will be unable to ship to our customers.


 


    Our agreements with hardware licensors (such as Sony for the
    PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft for the Xbox 360, and Nintendo for the
    Wii) typically give significant control to the licensor over the
    approval and manufacturing of our products, which could, in
    certain circumstances, leave us unable to get our products
    approved, manufactured and shipped to customers. These hardware
    licensors are also among our chief competitors. Generally,
    control of the approval and manufacturing process by the
    hardware licensors increases both our manufacturing lead times
    and costs as compared to those we can achieve independently.
    While we believe that our relationships with our hardware
    licensors are currently good, the potential for these licensors
    to delay or refuse to approve or manufacture our products
    exists. Such occurrences would harm our business and our
    financial performance.


 


    We also require compatibility code and the consent of Microsoft,
    Sony and Nintendo in order to include online capabilities in our
    products for their respective platforms. As online capabilities
    for video game systems become more significant, Microsoft, Sony
    and Nintendo could restrict the manner in which we provide
    online capabilities for our products. If Microsoft, Sony or
    Nintendo refused to approve our products with online
    capabilities or significantly impacted the financial terms on
    which these services are offered to our customers, our business
    could be harmed.


 


    If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to
    intellectual property, we will publish fewer hit titles and our
    revenue, profitability and cash flows will decline. Competition
    for these licenses may make them more expensive and reduce our
    profitability.


 


    Many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual
    property owned by others. For example, our EA SPORTS products
    include rights licensed from major sports leagues and
    players’ associations. Similarly, many of our other hit
    franchises, such as The Godfather, Harry Potter and Lord of the
    Rings, are based on key film and literary licenses. Competition
    for these licenses is intense. If we are unable to maintain
    these licenses or obtain additional licenses with significant
    commercial value, our revenues and profitability will decline
    significantly. Competition for these licenses may also drive up
    the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the
    licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and
    reduce our profitability.


 


    Our business is subject to risks generally associated with
    the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly
    harm our operating results.


 


    Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated
    with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our
    control. These risks could negatively impact our operating
    results and include: the popularity, price and timing of our
    games and the platforms on which they are played; economic
    conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer
    spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and
    popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews
    and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and
    cannot necessarily be predicted.


 


    If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel, we
    will be unable to effectively conduct our business.


 


    The market for technical, creative, marketing and other
    personnel essential to the development and marketing of our
    products and management of our businesses is extremely
    competitive. Our leading position within the interactive
    entertainment industry makes us a prime target for recruiting of
    executives and key creative talent. If we cannot successfully
    recruit and retain the employees we need, or replace key
    employees following their departure, our ability to develop and
    manage our business will be impaired.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions
    could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our
    investors and other negative consequences.


 


    We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage
    in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic
    transactions, including (i) acquisitions of companies,
    businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets,
    (ii) minority investments in strategic partners, and
    (iii) investments in new interactive entertainment
    businesses (for example, online and mobile games). Any of these
    strategic transactions could be material to our financial
    condition and results of operations. Although we regularly
    search for opportunities to engage in strategic transactions, we
    may not be successful in identifying suitable opportunities. We
    may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or
    investments or an acquisition or investment we do consummate may
    not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase
    our earnings. The process of acquiring and integrating a company
    or business, or successfully exploiting acquired intellectual
    property or other assets, could divert a significant amount of
    resources as well as our management’s time and focus and
    may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures,
    particularly for a large acquisition. Additional risks and
    variations of the foregoing risks we face include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and
    policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company
    that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls,
    procedures and policies,




 



     
        • 

    
    Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from
    an acquired company or business into our organization,




 



     
        • 

    
    Retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and
    customer relationships of the businesses we acquire,




 



     
        • 

    
    The need to integrate an acquired company’s accounting,
    management information, human resource and other administrative
    systems to permit effective management and timely reporting,




 



     
        • 

    
    The possibility that we will not discover important facts during
    due diligence that could have a material adverse impact on the
    value of the businesses we acquire, and




 



     
        • 

    
    Potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying
    amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an
    acquisition,




 



     
        • 

    
    Litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of
    claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition,
    including claims from terminated employees, customers or other
    third parties,




 



     
        • 

    
    Significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and
    integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital
    expenditures,




 



     
        • 

    
    Significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments,
    particularly relating to an acquired company’s deferred
    revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the
    combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone
    revenue and profits,




 



     
        • 

    
    The possibility that the combined company would not achieve the
    expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and
    product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated,




 



     
        • 

    
    The possibility that the costs of, or operational difficulties
    arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated,




 



     
        • 

    
    To the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside
    of the United States, we face additional risks, including risks
    related to integration of operations across different cultures
    and languages, currency risks and the particular economic,
    political and regulatory risks associated with specific
    countries, and




 



     
        • 

    
    The possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire
    triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property
    rights important to the operation of its business.





 


    Future acquisitions and investments could also involve the
    issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially
    diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt,
    contingent liabilities or amortization



    
    18



Table of Contents




    expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired
    in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash
    expenses such as stock-based compensation. Any of the foregoing
    factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from
    achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating
    performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a
    stand-alone basis. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity
    to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or
    investments.


 


    If patent claims continue to be asserted against us, we may
    be unable to sustain our current business models or profits, or
    we may be precluded from pursuing new business opportunities in
    the future.


 


    Many patents have been issued that may apply to widely-used game
    technologies, or to potential new modes of delivering, playing
    or monetizing game software products. For example, infringement
    claims under many issued patents are now being asserted against
    interactive software or online game sites. Several such claims
    have been asserted against us. We incur substantial expenses in
    evaluating and defending against such claims, regardless of the
    merits of the claims. In the event that there is a determination
    that we have infringed a third-party patent, we could incur
    significant monetary liability and be prevented from using the
    rights in the future, which could negatively impact our
    operating results. We may also discover that future
    opportunities to provide new and innovative modes of game play
    and game delivery to consumers may be precluded by existing
    patents that we are unable to license on reasonable terms.


 


    Other intellectual property claims may increase our product
    costs or require us to cease selling affected products.


 


    Many of our products include extremely realistic graphical
    images, and we expect that as technology continues to advance,
    images will become even more realistic. Some of the images and
    other content are based on real-world examples that may
    inadvertently infringe upon the intellectual property rights of
    others. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to
    ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual
    property rights of others, it is possible that third parties
    still may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive
    communications from third parties regarding such claims.
    Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid
    or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Such
    claims or litigations could require us to stop selling the
    affected products, redesign those products to avoid
    infringement, or obtain a license, all of which would be costly
    and harm our business.


 


    From time to time we may become involved in other legal
    proceedings which could adversely affect us.


 


    We are currently, and from time to time in the future may
    become, subject to legal proceedings, claims, litigation and
    government investigations or inquiries, which could be
    expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business
    operations. In addition, the outcome of any legal proceedings,
    claims, litigation, investigations or inquiries may be difficult
    to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operating results, or financial condition.


 


    Our business, our products and our distribution are subject
    to increasing regulation of content, consumer privacy,
    distribution and online hosting and delivery in the key
    territories in which we conduct business. If we do not
    successfully respond to these regulations, our business may
    suffer.


 


    Legislation is continually being introduced that may affect both
    the content of our products and their distribution. For example,
    data and consumer protection laws in the United States and
    Europe impose various restrictions on our web sites. Those rules
    vary by territory although the Internet recognizes no
    geographical boundaries. Other countries, such as Germany, have
    adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those
    transmitted over the Internet that are stricter than current
    United States laws. In the United States, the federal and
    several state governments are continually considering content
    restrictions on products such as ours, as well as restrictions
    on distribution of such products. For example, recent
    legislation has been adopted in several states, and could be
    proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of
    certain games (e.g., violent games or those with “M
    (Mature)” or “AO (Adults Only)” ratings) to
    minors. Any one or more of these factors could harm our business
    by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers,
    by limiting the size of the potential market for our products,
    and by requiring costly additional differentiation between
    products for different territories to address varying
    regulations.



    
    19



Table of Contents




    If one or more of our titles were found to contain hidden,
    objectionable content, our business could suffer.


 


    Throughout the history of our industry, many video games have
    been designed to include certain hidden content and gameplay
    features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat
    codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance
    the gameplay experience. However, in several recent cases,
    hidden content or features have been found to be included in
    other publishers’ products by an employee who was not
    authorized to do so or by an outside developer without the
    knowledge of the publisher. From time to time, some hidden
    content and features have contained profanity, graphic violence
    and sexually explicit or otherwise objectionable material. In a
    few cases, the Entertainment Software Ratings Board
    (“ESRB”) has reacted to discoveries of hidden content
    and features by reviewing the rating that was originally
    assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the
    game packaging
    and/or
    fining the publisher. Retailers have on occasion reacted to the
    discovery of such hidden content by removing these games from
    their shelves, refusing to sell them, and demanding that their
    publishers accept them as product returns. Likewise, consumers
    have reacted to the revelation of hidden content by refusing to
    purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they’ve
    already purchased, and refraining from buying other games
    published by the company whose game contained the objectionable
    material.


 


    We have implemented preventative measures designed to reduce the
    possibility of hidden, objectionable content from appearing in
    the video games we publish. Nonetheless, these preventative
    measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding,
    and reasonable resource constraints. In addition, to the extent
    we acquire a company without similar controls in place, the
    possibility of hidden, objectionable content appearing in video
    games developed by that company but for which we are ultimately
    responsible could increase. If a video game we published were
    found to contain hidden, objectionable content, the ESRB could
    demand that we recall a game and change its packaging to reflect
    a revised rating, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand
    we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from
    customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that
    we refund their money. This could have a material negative
    impact on our operating results and financial condition. In
    addition, our reputation could be harmed, which could impact
    sales of other video games we sell. If any of these consequences
    were to occur, our business and financial performance could be
    significantly harmed.


 


    If we ship defective products, our operating results could
    suffer.


 


    Products such as ours are extremely complex software programs,
    and are difficult to develop, manufacture and distribute. We
    have quality controls in place to detect defects in the
    software, media and packaging of our products before they are
    released. Nonetheless, these quality controls are subject to
    human error, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints.
    Therefore, these quality controls and preventative measures may
    not be effective in detecting defects in our products before
    they have been reproduced and released into the marketplace. In
    such an event, we could be required to recall a product, or we
    may find it necessary to voluntarily recall a product,
    and/or scrap
    defective inventory, which could significantly harm our business
    and operating results.


 


    Our international net revenue is subject to currency
    fluctuations.


 


    For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, international net
    revenue comprised 47 percent of our total net revenue. We
    expect foreign sales to continue to account for a significant
    portion of our total net revenue. Such sales may be subject to
    unexpected regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers.
    Additionally, foreign sales are primarily made in local
    currencies, which may fluctuate against the U.S. dollar. We
    use foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate some foreign
    currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated
    assets and liabilities (primarily certain intercompany
    receivables and payables) and, from time to time, foreign
    currency option contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted
    transactions (primarily related to a portion of the revenue and
    expenses denominated in foreign currency generated by our
    operational subsidiaries). However, these activities do not
    fully protect us from foreign currency fluctuations and, can
    themselves, result in losses. Accordingly, our results of
    operations, including our reported net revenue and net income,
    and financial condition can be adversely affected by unfavorable
    foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the Euro, British
    pound sterling and Canadian dollar.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax
    liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial
    condition.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in
    various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required
    in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in
    the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions
    and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is
    uncertain.


 


    We are also required to estimate what our tax obligations will
    be in the future. Although we believe our tax estimates are
    reasonable, the estimation process and applicable laws are
    inherently uncertain, and our estimates are not binding on tax
    authorities. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected
    by our profit level, by changes in our business or changes in
    our structure resulting from the reorganization of our business
    and operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in
    countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the
    elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws as well as
    other factors. Further, our tax determinations are regularly
    subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those
    audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should
    our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax
    provision and net income or loss could be materially affected.


 


    We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline
    proportionately with declines in our consolidated pre-tax income
    or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense
    will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower
    levels of pre-tax income or loss than higher levels. In
    addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our
    effective tax rate will be more volatile.


 


    We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such
    as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and
    goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various
    foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under examination by tax
    authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. There can be
    no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes
    in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have
    an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition.


 


    Changes in our worldwide operating structure or the adoption
    of new products and distribution models could have adverse tax
    consequences.


 


    As we expand our international operations, adopt new products
    and new distribution models, implement changes to our operating
    structure or undertake intercompany transactions in light of
    changing tax laws, expiring rulings, acquisitions and our
    current and anticipated business and operational requirements,
    our tax expense could increase. For example, in the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2006, we repatriated $375 million under
    the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. As a result, we
    recognized an additional one-time tax expense in fiscal 2006 of
    $17 million.


 


    Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by
    changes in financial accounting standards or by the application
    of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it
    evolves.


 


    As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the
    review of accounting policies by the SEC and national and
    international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of
    accounting policy changes may accelerate. For example, as
    discussed in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements, FIN No. 48 has affected the way we account
    for income taxes and may have a material impact on our financial
    results. Our adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standard (“SFAS”) No. 141(R) will have a material
    impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements for material
    acquisitions consummated after March 29, 2009. Similarly,
    changes in accounting standards relating to stock-based
    compensation require us to recognize significantly greater
    expense than we had been recognizing prior to the adoption of
    the new standard. Likewise, policies affecting software revenue
    recognition have and could further significantly affect the way
    we account for revenue related to our products and services. For
    example, we expect a more significant portion of our games will
    be online-enabled in the future and we could be required to
    recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time
    rather than at the time of sale. As we enhance, expand and
    diversify our business and product offerings, the application of
    existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly
    those relating to the way we account for revenue and taxes,
    could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results
    although not necessarily on our cash flows.



    
    21



Table of Contents




    The majority of our sales are made to a relatively small
    number of key customers. If these customers reduce their
    purchases of our products or become unable to pay for them, our
    business could be harmed.


 


    In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, over
    73 percent of our U.S. sales were made to seven key
    customers. In Europe, our top ten customers accounted for
    approximately 32 percent of our sales in that territory
    during the year ended March 31, 2008. Worldwide, we had
    direct sales to two customers, GameStop Corp. and Wal-Mart
    Stores, which represented approximately 13 percent and
    12 percent, respectively, of total net revenue in the year
    ended March 31, 2008. Though our products are available to
    consumers through a variety of retailers, the concentration of
    our sales in one, or a few, large customers could lead to a
    short-term disruption in our sales if one or more of these
    customers significantly reduced their purchases or ceased to
    carry our products, and could make us more vulnerable to
    collection risk if one or more of these large customers became
    unable to pay for our products. Additionally, our receivables
    from these large customers increase significantly in the
    December quarter as they stock up for the holiday selling
    season. Also, having such a large portion of our total net
    revenue concentrated in a few customers could reduce our
    negotiating leverage with these customers.


 


    Our products are subject to the threat of piracy and
    unauthorized copying, which could negatively impact our growth
    and future profitability.


 


    Software piracy is a persistent problem, particularly in
    countries where laws are less protective of intellectual
    property rights. The global expansion of organized pirate
    operations, the proliferation of technology designed to
    circumvent the protection measures we use in our products, the
    availability of broadband access to the Internet and the ability
    to download pirated copies of our games from various Internet
    sites and through peer-to-peer channels, and the widespread
    proliferation of Internet cafes using pirated copies of our
    products, all have contributed to ongoing and expanding piracy.
    Though we take legal and technical steps to make the
    unauthorized copying and distribution of our products more
    difficult, as do the manufacturers of consoles on which our
    games are played, these efforts may not be successful in
    controlling the piracy of our products. These factors could have
    a negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future.


 


    Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to
    fluctuate significantly.


 


    The market price of our common stock historically has been, and
    we expect will continue to be, subject to significant
    fluctuations. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific
    to us (including those discussed in the risk factors above as
    well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do
    not believe are material), to changes in securities
    analysts’ earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or
    future financial guidance falling below our expectations and
    analysts’ and investors’ expectations, to factors
    affecting the entertainment, computer, software, Internet, media
    or electronics industries, to our ability to successfully
    integrate any acquisitions we may make, or to national or
    international economic conditions.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B