Item 1A:
    Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    as well as our consolidated financial statements, related notes,
    and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this
    report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, or the SEC. We do not intend, and undertake no
    obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements
    after the date of this report to reflect actual results or
    future events or circumstances. Given these risks and
    uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance
    on such forward-looking statements.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1:  

    
    BUSINESS





 



    Overview


 


    eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in September 1995
    and was incorporated in California in May 1996. In April 1998,
    we reincorporated in Delaware, and in September 1998, we
    completed the initial public offering of our common stock. Our
    principal executive offices are located at 2145 Hamilton Avenue,
    San Jose, California 95125, and our telephone number is
    (408) 376-7400.
    When we refer to “we,” “our” or
    “eBay” in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its
    California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated
    subsidiaries. When we refer to “eBay.com,” we mean the
    online marketplace located at www.ebay.com and its
    localized counterparts. When we refer to “PayPal,” we
    mean the online payments platform located at www.paypal.com
    and its localized counterparts. When we refer to
    “Skype,” we mean the Voice over Internet Protocol, or
    VoIP, offerings provided by our subsidiary Skype Technologies
    S.A.


 


    Our purpose is to pioneer new communities around the world built
    on commerce, sustained by trust and inspired by opportunity. We
    provide online marketplaces for the sale of goods and services
    as well as other online commerce, or ecommerce, platforms,
    online payments services and online communications offerings to
    a diverse community of individuals and businesses.


 


    We have three operating segments: Marketplaces, Payments and
    Communications. Our Marketplaces segment enables online commerce
    through a variety of platforms, including the traditional
    eBay.com platform and our other online platforms, such as our
    classifieds websites, as well as Half.com, Rent.com,
    Shopping.com and StubHub. The wide array of websites that
    comprise our Marketplaces segment brings together millions of
    buyers and sellers every day on a local, national and
    international basis. Our Payments segment, which consists of
    PayPal, enables individuals and businesses to securely, easily
    and quickly send and receive payments online. Our Communications
    segment, which consists of Skype, enables VoIP communications
    between Skype users and provides low-cost connectivity to
    traditional fixed-line and mobile telephones.


 



    Marketplaces


 


    Our Marketplaces segment is comprised of online commerce
    platforms that enable a global community of buyers and sellers
    to interact and trade with one another. Our goal is to create,
    maintain and expand the functionality, safety, ease-of-use and
    reliability of our online commerce platforms while supporting
    the growth and success of our community of users.



    
    3



Table of Contents





    Marketplaces
    Value Proposition


 


    We seek to attract buyers and sellers to our community by
    offering:


 




     	
     	
     	





    Buyers



 



    Sellers




 





    • Selection



 


    • Access to broad global markets





    • Value



 


    • Cost effective marketing and distribution





    • Convenience



 


    • Access to large buyer base





    • Entertainment



 


    • Good conversion rates









 


    We believe our Marketplaces platforms make inefficient markets
    more efficient because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our global community of users can easily and inexpensively
    communicate, exchange information and complete transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our Marketplaces platforms include more than a hundred million
    items on any given day and make available to our users a wide
    variety and selection of goods; and




 



     
        • 

    
    We bring buyers and sellers together for lower fees than
    traditional intermediaries.





 


    We seek to create a global platform that enables individuals and
    businesses of all types and sizes to access broad markets. We
    have aggregated a significant number of buyers, sellers and
    items listed for sale, which, in turn, has resulted in a vibrant
    online commerce environment. Our sellers generally enjoy good
    conversion rates and our buyers enjoy an extensive selection of
    goods and services. Key components of our community philosophy
    are maintaining honest and open marketplaces and treating
    individual users with respect. We seek to maintain the
    satisfaction and loyalty of our buyers and sellers by offering a
    variety of community and support features, such as announcement
    and bulletin boards, customer support boards and personal pages,
    as well as other topical or category-specific information
    exchanges.


 


    Markets of goods with broad buyer and seller bases, wide product
    ranges and moderate shipping costs have generally been
    successful on our Marketplaces platforms. Generally speaking,
    our Marketplaces platforms are more effective, relative to
    available alternatives, at addressing markets of scarce new
    goods, end-of-life products and used and vintage items. Our
    highest growth, however, has been in our fixed-price listing
    format, primarily for new
    in-season
    items.


 


    Our historical success has resulted largely from the size of our
    community of active users. We had approximately 83 million
    active users at the end of 2007, compared to approximately
    82 million at the end of 2006. We define an active user as
    any user who bid on, bought, or listed an item during the most
    recent
    12-month
    period.


 



    Marketplaces
    Platforms Overview


 


    Our Marketplaces platforms seek to bring buyers and sellers
    together through fully automated and easy-to-use online websites
    that are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, from
    any place in the world at any time. The platforms include
    software tools and services, some available at no charge and
    others for a fee, that allow buyers and sellers to trade with
    one another more easily and efficiently. The Marketplaces
    platforms consist of our core online commerce platform, eBay.com
    and its localized counterparts, and adjacent platforms
    consisting of our classifieds websites, as well as Half.com,
    Rent.com, Shopping.com and StubHub. Our Marketplaces platforms
    earn revenue from, as the case may be, listing, feature,
    subscription and final value fees paid by sellers, lead referral
    fees, transaction fees and advertising fees.


 



    eBay.com
    Platform


 


    Our Marketplaces core platform, eBay.com, includes our
    traditional auction-style format and fixed-price formats such as
    Buy-It-Now and eBay Stores. We offer the core platform on
    localized websites in 28 countries. In 2007, our auction-style
    listing format accounted for approximately 60% of our Gross
    Merchandise Volume, or GMV, which is the total value of all
    successfully closed items between users on our Marketplaces
    trading platform websites during the period, regardless of
    whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the
    transaction



    
    4



Table of Contents




    (excluding Rent.com, Shopping.com and eBay’s classified
    websites), while the fixed-price listing format accounted for
    the remaining 40% of our 2007 GMV.


 



    Auction-Style
    Listing Format


 


    Our traditional auction-style format allows a seller to select a
    minimum price for opening bids, with the option to set a reserve
    price for the item, which is the minimum price at which the
    seller is willing to sell the item. A seller with appropriate
    feedback ratings can also sell in a “Multiple
    Item Auction” format, which allows a seller to sell
    multiple identical items to the highest bidders.


 



    Fixed-Price
    Listing Format


 


    Our fixed-price format allows buyers and sellers to accelerate
    the transaction process rather than waiting for the auction
    period to expire. Sellers with appropriate feedback ratings can
    choose to use the “Buy-It-Now” feature at the time an
    item is listed, which allows sellers to name a price at which
    they would be willing to sell the item to a buyer. Our Half.com
    subsidiary also provides a fixed-price, person-to-person online
    commerce platform that allows people to buy and sell new and
    previously owned books, movies, music and games at discounted
    prices.


 


    In addition, eBay Stores enable sellers to exhibit all of their
    listings in one place on our eBay platform and to describe their
    respective businesses through customized pages. eBay Stores
    provides sellers with useful tools to build, manage, promote and
    track their businesses. “Store Inventory Format”
    listings allow sellers to list items for a minimum
    30-day
    listing period at a lower insertion fee and higher final value
    fee than regular auction-style and fixed-price listings. As of
    December 31, 2007, there were over 532,000 online
    storefronts established by users in locations around the world.


 



    Other
    Marketplaces Platforms and Services


 



    Classifieds
    Websites


 


    Our classifieds websites are available in hundreds of cities and
    regions around the world and are designed to help people meet,
    share ideas and trade on a local level. Our classifieds websites
    include Kijiji, Gumtree.com, LoQUo.com, OpusForum,
    Marktplaats.nl and mobile.de. In addition, we have a minority
    equity investment in craigslist, Inc., which operates the
    craigslist classifieds websites around the world. Our classified
    websites are monetized primarily through advertising.


 



    Rent.com


 


    Rent.com is a leading U.S. listing website in the rental
    housing industry. The website is designed to bring apartment
    seekers and apartment managers together in an efficient manner.
    Landlords pay a fee to Rent.com for renters who indicate that
    they have found their apartments through Rent.com.


 



    Shopping.com


 


    Shopping.com is a leading comparison shopping destination
    featuring products from thousands of merchants across the
    Internet. Shopping.com offers one of the largest product
    catalogs on the Internet — searchable by thousands of
    attributes — along with consumer product reviews
    through Epinions.com, which help users make informed buying
    decisions. Retailers pay a fee to Shopping.com for shoppers
    directed to their sites by Shopping.com.


 



    StubHub


 


    StubHub is a leading U.S. ticket marketplace, enabling fans
    to buy and sell tickets to a large selection of sporting,
    concert, theater and other live entertainment events. StubHub
    provides a marketplace dedicated solely to tickets and is
    designed to enable users to buy or sell their tickets in a
    secure, convenient and highly reliable environment. Buyers and
    sellers pay fees to StubHub when tickets are bought and sold.



    
    5



Table of Contents





    Online
    Advertising and Other Services


 


    We work with strategic partners in a variety of areas, such as
    online advertising, mailing and other services, that allow us to
    extend the monetization of our platforms and user base.






 



    Key
    Services for Buyers and Sellers


 


    We have developed a number of features on our platforms in the
    areas of Trust and Safety, Customer Support and Value-Added
    Tools and Services, as well as Loyalty Programs. These features
    are designed to make users more comfortable dealing with unknown
    trading partners and completing commercial transactions on the
    Internet.


 



    Trust and
    Safety


 


    Feedback Forum:  Our Feedback Forum encourages
    users to provide feedback ratings and comments on other users
    with whom they trade. Users’ profiles, which include these
    feedback ratings and comments, can be viewed by any of our other
    users. Every registered user has a feedback profile that may
    contain compliments, criticisms
    and/or other
    comments by users who have conducted business with that user.
    The Feedback Forum requires feedback to be related to specific
    transactions and provides an easy tool for users to match
    specific transactions with the user names of their trading
    partners. This information is recorded in a profile that
    includes a feedback rating for the user, with feedback sorted
    according to whether the feedback has been provided over the
    past month, six months or twelve months. Users who develop
    positive reputations have color-coded star symbols displayed
    next to their user names to indicate the number of positive
    feedback ratings they have received. In addition to leaving an
    overall Feedback rating (positive, neutral or negative) for a
    seller, buyers also can leave anonymous Detailed Seller Ratings
    (“DSR”) that cannot be viewed by the seller in four
    areas: item as described, communication, shipping time and
    shipping and handling charges. The Feedback Forum has several
    automated features designed to detect and prevent certain forms
    of abuse, such as a user leaving positive feedback about himself
    or herself through multiple accounts. We recently announced
    updates to our feedback system, including removing the ability
    of sellers to leave negative feedback for buyers and providing
    sellers with additional tools designed to avoid negative
    feedback.


 


    SafeHarbor Program:  We also offer the
    SafeHarbor program, which provides guidelines for trading and
    user dispute resolution. Our SafeHarbor staff investigates
    users’ complaints of possible misuse of eBay platforms and
    takes appropriate action, including issuing warnings to users,
    ending and removing listings, or suspending users from bidding
    on or listing items for sale.


 


    Verified Rights Owner (VeRO) Program:  The VeRO
    Program lets intellectual property rights owners request the
    removal of listings that offer items or contain materials that
    infringe on their rights. This helps to protect community
    members from purchasing items that may be counterfeit or
    otherwise unauthorized.


 



    Customer
    Support


 


    We devote significant resources to providing personalized,
    accurate and timely support services to our community of users.
    Buyers and sellers can contact us through a variety of means,
    including email, online text chat and, in certain circumstances,
    telephone. We continue to focus our resources on improving our
    accessibility, increasing our capacity, expanding our
    category-specific support, extending our online self-help
    features and improving our systems and processes to allow us to
    provide efficient and effective support. In addition, top eBay
    sellers who qualify for our PowerSeller program receive
    prioritized customer support.


 



    Value-Added
    Tools and Services


 


    eBay users have access to a variety of “pre-trade” and
    “post-trade” tools and services to enhance their user
    experience and to make trading faster, easier and safer for
    them. “Pre-trade” tools and services are intended to
    simplify the listing process. “Post-trade” tools and
    services are designed to make transactions easier and more
    convenient to complete.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    These tools and services include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Turbo Lister, eBay Blackthorne, ProStores, Selling Manager and
    Selling Manager Pro, each of which helps to automate the selling
    process;




 



     
        • 

    
    Picture Services, which enables sellers to include pictures in
    their listings;




 



     
        • 

    
    Shipping Calculator, which makes it easier for buyers and
    sellers to calculate shipping costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Shipping Labels, which allows sellers to print certain postage
    and UPS labels;




 



     
        • 

    
    Shipment Tracking, which enables sellers to track their shipped
    packages;




 



     
        • 

    
    eBay Toolbar, which helps eBay users stay connected with eBay
    wherever they are on the Internet;




 



     
        • 

    
    eBay Desktop, which helps eBay users stay connected with eBay
    from their desktop computer;




 



     
        • 

    
    eBay Countdown, which helps eBay users bid and buy from anywhere
    on the Internet;




 



     
        • 

    
    eBay Sales Reports and eBay Sales Reports Plus, which provide
    sales and fee information to sellers;




 



     
        • 

    
    eBay Marketplace Research, which enables sellers to analyze
    sales in categories across the site;




 



     
        • 

    
    Reviews and Guides, which assists shoppers in making more
    informed choices;




 



     
        • 

    
    eBay Neighborhoods, which assists users in connecting around
    items in which they have a mutual interest;




 



     
        • 

    
    eBay To Go, which allows users to embed item listings in their
    own Internet websites;




 



     
        • 

    
    Best of eBay, where eBay users can vote for their favorite items;




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal, which facilitates the online exchange of funds; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Skype, which enables VoIP communications between buyers and
    sellers.





 


    We currently provide these services directly or through
    contractual arrangements with third parties.


 


    PowerSeller program:  PowerSellers are
    eBay’s top sellers who have consistently sustained a high
    volume of monthly sales and who have a high level of positive
    feedback. Members of the PowerSeller program get a range of
    special benefits, including pricing discounts, prioritized
    customer support, promotional offers, eBay promotional
    merchandise, advanced selling education, opportunities to
    participate in research and other special rewards. The
    PowerSeller program is free of charge and a special PowerSeller
    icon is located next to the seller’s user name if the
    seller qualifies for the program. In January 2008, we announced
    that we would raise the standards for sellers to qualify for our
    PowerSeller program and would provide additional benefits, such
    as pricing discounts for qualified PowerSellers with high DSR
    ratings.


 


    Top buyer program:  Our top buyers benefit from
    having a special phone number to call if they have an
    unsatisfactory user experience in connection with a transaction
    on our websites, and we recently announced that we would also
    offer special coupon initiatives to top buyers.


 



    Marketplaces
    Growth Strategy


 


    We intend to continue to work toward our mission of creating the
    world’s leading ecommerce franchise by investing in our
    core Marketplaces segment and continuing to build our adjacent
    Marketplaces businesses.


 


    We intend to continue to enhance our core Marketplaces segment
    by reinvesting in our customers, improving the buyer experience
    and seller economics by enhancing our products and services,
    improving Trust and Safety and customer support, extending our
    product offerings into new formats, categories and geographies,
    and experimenting with various pricing and buyer retention
    strategies. We have made significant efforts to improve the user
    experience over the course of 2007, including improvements to
    the eBay.com homepage, the site’s search functionality, the
    ease with which sellers can list items, visual search, and the
    expansion of our customer support infrastructure. We have begun
    tailoring the features of our business model to the needs of
    specific categories, such as motors, to help drive revenue, as
    we recognize that a single user experience may not be optimal
    for all products. Furthermore, we are



    
    7



Table of Contents




    invested heavily in promotions through marketing campaigns in
    the U.S. and pricing promotions on our site to drive
    traffic and continue the growth in GMV. We believe that these
    measures will improve the number of items sold on our site and,
    in turn, lead to higher GMV.


 


    Another element of our growth strategy is to build adjacent
    Marketplaces businesses, such as our classified platforms and
    StubHub, which offer new formats and new monetization models, as
    well as opportunities for growth beyond our core businesses. We
    plan to continue to grow our adjacent Marketplaces businesses,
    including our classifieds websites, Half.com, Rent.com, and
    Shopping.com. In addition, we intend to expand our monetization
    models through advertising partnerships.


 



    Payments


 


    Our global payments platform, PayPal, enables any individual or
    business with an email address to securely, easily and quickly
    send and receive payments online in over 190 markets worldwide.
    We believe our global payments platform makes online commerce
    more efficient compared to traditional payment alternatives such
    as checks, money orders and credit cards via merchant accounts.
    These traditional payment alternatives present various obstacles
    to the online commerce experience, including lengthy processing
    time, inconvenience and high costs. PayPal delivers a product
    well-suited for online merchants and individuals by allowing
    them to send and receive online payments securely, conveniently
    and cost-effectively. The PayPal network builds on the existing
    financial infrastructure of bank accounts and credit cards to
    create a global, real-time payment solution.


 



    PayPal
    Value Proposition


 


    Providing a more efficient and effective payment alternative for
    users is essential to creating a faster, easier and safer online
    commerce experience. Our PayPal online payments solution allows
    account holders, as well as users of other online businesses, to
    pay for their transactions securely, easily and quickly.


 



    Buyer
    Value Proposition


 


    PayPal enables buyers to pay merchants without sharing sensitive
    financial information. To make payments, buyers need to disclose
    only their email addresses to recipients. Many buyers wary of
    disclosing financial information online find this level of
    personal privacy attractive. Buyers also benefit from
    PayPal’s Buyer Protection Program, which reimburses buyers
    using PayPal with respect to certain qualified purchases made on
    eBay.com.


 



    Seller
    Value Proposition


 


    PayPal offers online merchants an
    all-in-one
    payment processing solution that is less expensive than most
    merchant accounts, offers industry-leading fraud prevention, and
    enables merchants to conduct business with approximately
    57 million PayPal registered active accounts in over 190
    markets. PayPal also offers merchants the ability to maintain a
    direct relationship with their customers.


 


    A merchant can generally open a PayPal account and begin
    accepting credit card payments within a few minutes. Most
    merchants are approved instantly for a PayPal account, and do
    not need to provide a personal guaranty, acquire any specialized
    hardware, prepare an application, contact a payment gateway or
    encrypt customer data. Furthermore, PayPal charges lower
    transaction fees than most merchant accounts, and charges no
    setup fees and few or no recurring monthly fees.


 


    The account-based nature of PayPal’s network helps us to
    detect and prevent fraud when funds enter, flow through, and
    exit the PayPal network. Sellers can also reduce the risk of
    transaction losses resulting from unauthorized credit card use
    and fraudulent chargebacks if they comply with PayPal’s
    Seller Protection Policy.


 



    PayPal
    Overview


 



    Joining
    the Network


 


    PayPal offers three types of
    accounts:  Personal, Business and Premier. A new
    account holder typically opens an account to send money for an
    eBay purchase or a purchase on another website, a payment for
    services rendered,



    
    8



Table of Contents




    or a payment to an individual in lieu of cash. Allowing new
    account holders to join the network when they make or receive
    payments encourages PayPal’s natural, user-driven growth.
    PayPal’s account
    sign-up
    process asks each new account holder to provide PayPal his or
    her name, street address, phone number and email address. The
    account holder’s email address serves as the unique account
    identifier. PayPal also offers certain customers who sell on
    their own websites the ability to accept credit card payments
    from buyers without requiring the buyer to open a PayPal account.


 



    Payment
    Transaction Overview


 


    Buyers make payments at the PayPal website (including for items
    listed on eBay.com by sellers that accept PayPal as a payment
    method), at other online businesses or platforms where the
    seller has integrated PayPal’s Instant Purchase feature, or
    at the websites of merchants that have integrated PayPal’s
    Website Payments feature. To make a payment at PayPal’s
    website, a buyer logs in to his or her account and enters the
    recipient’s email address and the amount of the payment. To
    make a payment through Instant Purchase or Website Payments, a
    buyer selects an item for purchase, confirms the payment
    information and enters his or her email address and password to
    authorize the payment. The buyer chooses whether PayPal debits
    the money from the buyer’s PayPal balance, credit card, or
    bank account and the payment is then credited to the
    recipient’s PayPal balance. In the case of an eCheck
    payment, the transaction is held until the funds have cleared
    the sender’s bank, which typically takes three to five
    business days. In turn, the recipient can make payments to
    others or withdraw his or her funds at any time via check (in
    the U.S.), electronic funds transfer, or a PayPal-branded debit
    card (which is only available to U.S. users).


 


    PayPal earns revenues in several ways. First, PayPal earns
    transaction fees when a Business or Premier account receives a
    payment. Second, PayPal earns a foreign exchange fee when an
    account holder converts a balance from one currency to another.
    Third, PayPal earns fees from merchants who utilize
    PayPal’s online payment processing services. Fourth, PayPal
    earns fees when a user receives payments from outside the
    U.S. Fifth, PayPal may earn fees when a user withdraws
    money to a
    non-U.S. bank
    account, depending on the amount of the withdrawal. Sixth,
    PayPal earns a return on certain customer balances. Finally,
    PayPal may earn ancillary revenues from a suite of financial
    products, described below.


 


    PayPal incurs funding costs on payments at varying levels based
    on the source of the payment. Costs associated with credit card
    and debit card funded payments are significantly higher than
    bank account or balance-funded payments. U.S. account
    holders who choose to maintain PayPal balances in
    U.S. dollars have the ability to sweep balances into the
    PayPal Money Market Fund. This Money Market Fund, which is
    invested in a portfolio managed by Barclays Global
    Fund Advisors, bore a current compound annual yield of
    3.62% as of February 14, 2008.


 



    Verification
    of Account Holders


 


    To fund payments from their bank accounts in the United States,
    account holders must first become verified by PayPal. The
    primary method for verification is our Random Deposit technique.
    Under this technique, PayPal makes two deposits ranging from 1
    cent to 99 cents to the account holder’s bank account. To
    verify ownership of the account, the account holder then enters
    the two amounts as a four-digit code at the PayPal website. In
    addition to allowing funding through bank accounts, verification
    also removes some spending limits on account holders’
    accounts and gives them reputational advantages when transacting
    with other members of the PayPal community.


 



    Withdrawing
    Money


 


    Each account holder in the U.S. and in 34 other countries
    may withdraw money from his or her PayPal account through an
    electronic fund transfer to his or her bank account or, in the
    U.S., by a mailed check from PayPal. Automated Clearing House,
    or ACH, withdrawals may take three to five business days to
    arrive in the account holder’s bank account, depending on
    the bank. Anyone who can receive funds can make withdrawals to a
    U.S. bank account. Mailed checks may take one to two weeks
    to arrive, and PayPal charges $1.50 per check. Qualifying PayPal
    business users in the U.S. can receive a PayPal ATM/debit
    card, which provides these users with instant access to their
    PayPal account balances. ATM/debit cardholders can withdraw
    cash, for a $1.00 fee per transaction, from any ATM connected to
    the Cirrus or Maestro networks and can make purchases at any
    merchant accepting MasterCard.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    PayPal’s
    Trust and Safety Programs


 


    We have developed a number of PayPal trust and safety programs,
    including PayPal’s Seller Protection and Buyer Protection
    Programs. These programs provide additional protection to
    certain account holders who pay or receive payment for their
    transactions through PayPal on eBay. PayPal’s Seller
    Protection Program covers sellers for up to $5,000 per year on
    certain reversed transactions. PayPal’s Buyer Protection
    Program covers qualified purchases on eBay.com for up to $2,000
    coverage at no cost (with different terms for transactions
    denominated in
    non-U.S. currencies).
    In addition, our Fraud Investigation Team focuses on identifying
    and preventing fraud before it occurs, detecting fraud in
    process, mitigating loss if fraud does occur and delivering
    information to law enforcement around the world to better combat
    online fraud.


 



    PayPal
    Growth Strategy


 


    We seek to become the online payment network of choice around
    the world through our focus on simplifying the customer
    experience, striving to be the most secure method of payment on
    the Internet, enhancing the product offering for our merchants
    and utilizing multiple sales channels. To establish PayPal as
    the global standard in online payments, we intend to continue
    focusing on increased user adoption of PayPal on our
    Marketplaces platforms, and continued expansion of PayPal’s
    Merchant Services business and our financial products business.


 



    Marketplaces


 


    PayPal’s services are integrated into the checkout flow of
    the eBay.com platform in our key markets, including the U.S.,
    Germany, the U.K. and Canada. In 2007, eBay.com generated more
    than $59 billion in GMV. PayPal, in turn, generated
    approximately $28 billion of net Total Payment Volume
    from eBay.com transactions, which represented approximately 58%
    of PayPal’s net Total Payment Volume during 2007. Net
    Total Payment Volume is the total dollar volume of payments, net
    of payment reversals, successfully completed through the PayPal
    system, excluding PayPal’s payment gateway business.


 


    We intend to increase PayPal’s penetration of GMV on the
    eBay.com platform globally by continuing to integrate with eBay
    listings and new formats, including our adjacent Marketplaces
    businesses, focusing on buyer protection programs and adding
    product features and innovations important to the Marketplaces
    community. We believe that our expansion into an increased
    number of international markets and currencies will continue to
    make cross-border transactions easier and more efficient,
    benefiting both our Marketplaces and Payments segments.


 



    Merchant
    Services


 


    Our Merchant Services business offers a differentiated product
    solution for each merchant category, while providing a
    cost-effective and secure payment solution across all
    categories. In 2007, PayPal expanded its presence to ecommerce
    websites such as Southwest Airlines, BlueNile.com, Lindt
    Chocolatier, Toys R Us and Barnes & Noble. We intend
    to continue to market our global payments solution to spur our
    growth as a payment solution off of eBay.com for sole
    proprietors and small, medium and large businesses.


 


    We also intend to grow our Merchant Services business by
    enhancing our product offering and leveraging our multiple sales
    channels to expand our network of merchants globally.


 



    Financial
    Products


 


    We will continue to identify transactions and markets not served
    adequately by existing payment systems and seek to develop
    product features that improve upon those legacy systems. In
    addition, we intend to expand the breadth of products and
    services available to our account holders and have begun
    offering financial products such as the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    PayPal Buyer Credit, a personal credit account issued by GE
    Money Bank, which allows users to buy now and pay later for
    their PayPal purchases;




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal ATM/Debit Card, which enables business users to withdraw
    funds from their PayPal accounts at ATMs, pay for offline
    purchases with funds from their PayPal account, and qualify to
    receive cash back;






    
    10



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    PayPal Plus Credit Card and eBay MasterCard issued by GE Money
    Bank, which allow users to earn rewards on purchases made
    offline or using PayPal. We also offer a PayPal Credit Card to
    UK users through GE Money;




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal Plug In, which allows users to use their PayPal account
    to make payments on the Internet everywhere that MasterCard is
    accepted (including websites that do not accept PayPal);




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal Pay Later, which is a personal transactional credit
    account issued by GE Money Bank that allows users to finance
    PayPal purchases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal Money Market Fund, which allows participants to earn a
    yield on the funds in their PayPal account.





 



    Communications


 


    We added the Communications segment through our acquisition of
    Skype in October 2005. Founded in August 2003, Skype is a
    leading global Internet communications company and is
    headquartered in Luxembourg, with offices in Europe, the
    U.S. and Asia.


 



    Skype
    Value Proposition


 


    Skype seeks to set the standard in providing new and easy ways
    to stay in touch over the Internet. Our vision is to enable our
    users to communicate freely at home, at work and on the move.
    Skype offers a simple, convenient, and cost-effective way for
    people anywhere in the world to communicate from their computers
    over the Internet to other computers, landlines and mobile
    phones.


 



    Skype
    Overview


 


    Millions of people everyday make free Skype-to-Skype voice and
    video calls and send instant messages using Skype. Skype users
    pay a low per-minute fee for long-distance and international
    calls to landlines and mobile phones, and pay fees for other
    features such as SMS (text messaging), voicemail and call
    forwarding. Skype users can also purchase a variety of
    subscription plans that provide an unlimited number of calls.


 


    Highlights of Skype’s activities in 2007 included:
    Skype’s launch of the 3 Skypephone in partnership
    with mobile operator 3; an agreement with Wal-Mart to sell
    Skype-certified hardware devices and prepaid cards with Skype
    credit throughout Wal-Mart stores in the U.S.; a global
    partnership between Skype and MySpace to bring Internet voice
    communications to MySpace users; and the introduction of Skype
    Send Money, which allows users to send/receive money using
    PayPal through the Skype client. We continue to make
    improvements to the Skype product, and late in 2007, we launched
    Skype 3.6, which provides High Quality Video calling through a
    collaboration with Logitech.


 



    User
    Base


 


    Skype software has been downloaded more than half a billion
    times and is available in over 34 languages. As of
    December 31, 2007, Skype had over 276 million
    registered users and was used in almost every country around the
    world.


 


    Skype software is designed to be extremely secure, sustainable
    and scalable. At peak times, there are over 11 million
    concurrent users and over 180,000 simultaneous calls.


 



    Ecosystem


 


    Skype has a large and expanding ecosystem that includes nearly
    6,000 developers and over 50 partners. As of December 31,
    2007, there were more than 190 Skype Certified hardware products.


 



    Skype
    Growth Strategy


 


    To expand upon Skype’s position as a leading global
    Internet communications company, we will continue to focus on
    acquiring new users and converting users to premium offerings,
    while further developing two broad areas



    
    11



Table of Contents




    of Skype’s business: existing telephony products and new
    ecommerce opportunities. Part of our strategy to acquire new
    users is to achieve a desktop presence. In order to do this, we
    have partnered with certain computer manufacturers to include
    Skype software in their new computers.


 



    Existing
    Internet Communications (VoIP) Products


 


    Our strategy for driving growth from existing Internet
    communications (VoIP) products relies on acquiring new users and
    developing better products and innovative new features. In 2007,
    we launched a new global pricing structure that gives users an
    easy-to-understand
    all-in-one
    Skype package. This package offers a simple, convenient and
    cost-effective way for consumers worldwide to call landlines and
    mobile phones over the Internet.


 


    To continue growing the number of Skype users and improving the
    Skype experience, we will continue to work with our partners to
    develop and introduce new Skype Certified devices, including
    telephones and accessories, many of which eliminate the need for
    a computer to make Skype calls over the Internet. In 2007, Skype
    and 3, a mobile phone operator, launched a 3G Internet phone
    that allows users to make free Skype-to-Skype calls and send
    free Skype instant messages with the push of a button from their
    mobile phone to other Skype users no matter where they are.


 


    In addition to working with our partners, we will continue to
    make Skype Certified products available directly to our users
    through Skype’s Internet store as well as through other
    retail channels.


 



    New
    Ecommerce Opportunities


 


    We plan on expanding Skype’s presence within our existing
    businesses because communication via email — the
    traditional way for buyers and sellers to
    communicate — can be a source of friction in the
    online shopping experience, due primarily to delays in response
    time. Skype enables us to create new channels for ecommerce
    activity that help to streamline the online shopping experience.
    Communication via Skype allows buyers and sellers to benefit
    from being able to communicate directly with each other in an
    instantaneous and private environment. Skype also offers Skype
    Prime, which creates a marketplace for users to share their
    knowledge, talent, skills and services with other users.


 



    Other
    Items


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2007, eBay Inc. and its subsidiaries
    employed approximately 15,500 people (including temporary
    employees), approximately 9,500 of whom were located in the U.S.


 



    Competition


 


    We encounter vigorous competition in our businesses from
    numerous sources. Our users can find, buy, sell and pay for
    similar items through a variety of competing channels. These
    include, but are not limited to, online and offline retailers,
    distributors, liquidators, import and export companies, online
    and offline auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies,
    classifieds, directories, search engines, products of search
    engines, virtually all online and offline commerce participants
    (consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and
    business-to-business), online and offline shopping channels and
    networks. As our product offerings continue to broaden into new
    categories of items and new commerce formats, we expect to face
    additional competition from other online and offline channels
    for those new offerings. We also compete on the basis of price,
    product selection, and services. Our growth rates in our most
    mature markets have significantly slowed and we are losing
    market share in some segments. For our Payments segment, our
    users may choose to pay through a variety of alternative means,
    including other online payment services, offline payment methods
    such as cash, check or money order, and traditional online or
    offline credit card merchant accounts. For our Communications
    segment, our users may choose to use their local telephone
    companies, cable providers and other VoIP providers. To compete
    effectively, we may need to expend significant resources in
    technology and marketing. These efforts may be expensive and
    could reduce our margins and have a materially adverse effect on
    our business, financial position, operating results and cash
    flows and reduce the trading price of our stock. We believe that
    we will be able to maintain profitability by preserving and
    expanding the



    
    12



Table of Contents




    abundance and diversity of our users’ online community and
    enhancing our user experience, but we may not be able to
    continue to manage our operating expenses to avoid or reduce a
    decline in our consolidated net income. For more information
    regarding these risks, see the information in
    “Item 1A: Risk Factors” under the caption
    “Our industry is intensely competitive, and other companies
    or governmental agencies may allege that our behavior is
    anti-competitive.”


 



    Seasonality


 


    Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter
    of sequential revenue growth. We expect transaction activity
    patterns on our websites to increasingly mirror general consumer
    buying patterns as our businesses continue to mature. Please see
    the information in “Item 7: Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” under the heading “Seasonality.”


 



    Technology


 



    Marketplaces
    and Payments


 


    Our Marketplaces and Payments platforms utilize a combination of
    proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies
    and services provided by others. We have developed intuitive
    user interfaces, customer tools and transaction processing,
    database and network applications that help enable our users to
    reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites. Our
    technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing
    of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of
    large-scale global products and services and automates much of
    the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our
    infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard
    architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or
    catastrophic occurrences. We are continually improving our
    technology to enhance the customer experience and to increase
    efficiency, scalability and security. For information regarding
    technology related risks, see the information in
    “Item 1A: Risk Factors” under the captions
    “Our failure to manage growth could harm our
    business,” and “System failures could harm our
    business.”


 



    Communications


 


    Skype’s VoIP communication and other services are delivered
    through a peer-to-peer network architecture, in which users
    joining the network provide a significant portion of the
    technology resources (for example, computer bandwidth and
    hardware) that enable Skype’s services. To access
    Skype’s services, users download Skype software over the
    Internet. Skype utilizes a combination of proprietary
    technologies and services as well as technologies and services
    provided by others to design, develop and support its products.
    For more information regarding Skype’s technology risks,
    see the information in “Item 1A: Risk Factors”
    under the caption “Skype depends on key technology that is
    licensed from third parties.”


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We regard the protection of our intellectual property as
    critical to our success. We have entered into confidentiality
    and invention assignment agreements with our employees and
    contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom
    we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure
    of our proprietary information.


 


    We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by
    relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as a
    variety of administrative procedures. We actively pursue the
    registration of our trademarks, copyrights, patents and domain
    names in the U.S. and international jurisdictions. The
    expansion of our business has required us to protect our
    trademarks, patents and domain names in an increasing number of
    jurisdictions, a process that is expensive, may require
    litigation, and may not be successful in every location. We have
    registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the
    U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in
    place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and
    domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of
    interest. If we are unable to secure our trademarks or domain
    names, we could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in
    which our trademarks or domain names are not registered.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Third parties have from time to time claimed, and others may
    claim in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual
    property rights. We currently are involved in several such legal
    proceedings. Please see the information in “Item 3:
    Legal Proceedings” and in “Item 1A: Risk
    Factors” under the captions “We are subject to patent
    litigation” and “We may be unable to protect or
    enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately.”


 



    Segments
    and Geographic Information


 


    For an analysis of financial information about our segments as
    well as our geographic areas, see “Note 4 —
    Segments” to our consolidated financial statements included
    elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.ebay.com. Our investor
    relations website is located at http://investor.ebay.com.
    We make available free of charge on our investor relations
    website under the heading “SEC Filings” our Annual
    Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file or furnish such
    materials to the SEC.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A:  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    Risk
    Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition


 


    The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only
    ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate
    or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results
    of operations and financial condition.


 



    Our
    operating results may fluctuate.


 


    Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during
    our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate
    significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which
    are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating
    results include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to retain an active user base, attract new users,
    and encourage existing users to list items for sale, purchase
    items through our websites, or use our payment service or
    communication software and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to increase activity of the users of our
    Marketplaces business, especially with respect to our top buyers
    and sellers, in our most mature geographies, especially the
    U.S., Germany and the U.K.;




 



     
        • 

    
    the volume, size, timing, monetization, and completion rates of
    transactions using our websites or technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    the amount and timing of operating costs and capital
    expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our
    businesses, operations, and infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of recently announced changes to our pricing,
    products and policies, including our buyer/seller feedback
    features;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of recently announced management changes;




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions, including higher inflation, the
    possibility of a recession in the U.S. and interest rate
    fluctuations, as well as those economic conditions specific to
    the Internet and ecommerce industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory and legal actions imposing obligations on our
    businesses or our users;




 



     
        • 

    
    new laws or regulations, or interpretations of existing laws or
    regulations, that impose liability on us for actions of our
    users or otherwise harm our business models or restrict the
    Internet, electronic commerce, online payments, or online
    communications;




 



     
        • 

    
    the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of
    new sites, services, and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions
    using our websites or technology and our ability to manage the
    costs of our user protection programs;






    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to manage PayPal’s transaction loss rate and
    payment funding mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    the costs and results of litigation that involves us;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to successfully integrate and manage businesses that
    we acquire;




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost and availability of online and traditional advertising,
    and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop product enhancements, programs, and
    features at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to upgrade and develop our systems, infrastructure,
    and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to
    improve our websites at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7
    operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our
    websites or services provided to us or our users by third
    parties;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose
    services are required for our operations, such as credit card
    associations and banks;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to expand PayPal’s product offerings outside of
    the U.S. (including our ability to obtain any necessary
    regulatory approvals);




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to increase the acceptance of PayPal by online
    merchants outside of our Marketplaces platforms, which may
    require long implementation cycles and incentives to merchants
    that are initially dilutive;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to integrate, manage, and profitably expand and more
    effectively monetize the Skype business;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective
    manner and to retain key employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    the continued healthy operation of our technology suppliers and
    other parties with whom we have commercial relations;




 



     
        • 

    
    continued consumer acceptance of the Internet as a medium for
    commerce and communication in the face of increasing publicity
    about fraud, spoofing, phishing, viruses, spyware, and other
    dangers of the Internet; and




 



     
        • 

    
    geopolitical events such as war, threat of war, or terrorist
    actions.





 


    The increased variety of services offered on our websites makes
    it difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our
    revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving
    nature of our business and our limited operating history, we
    believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating
    results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them
    as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog,
    and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from
    transactions involving sales or payments during that quarter.
    Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is
    also difficult to forecast income statement expenses as a
    percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual income
    statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues may be
    significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our
    operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below
    the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that
    event, the trading price of our common stock would almost
    certainly decline.


 



    We may
    not maintain our level of profitability or rates of
    growth.


 


    We believe that our continued profitability and growth will
    depend in large part on our ability to do the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    attract new users, keep existing users active and reactivate
    former users on our websites and services, and increase the
    activity levels of our active users;




 



     
        • 

    
    react to changes in consumer use of the Internet and changing
    customer demands, and develop new services as well as new
    sources of revenues from our existing services;






    
    15



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    manage the costs of our business, including the costs associated
    with our workforce and with maintaining and enhancing our
    websites, customer support, transaction loss rate, user
    protection programs, product development and international
    expansion;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain sufficient transaction volume to attract buyers and
    sellers;




 



     
        • 

    
    cost effectively increase the awareness of our brands; and




 



     
        • 

    
    provide our customers with superior community, customer support,
    and trading, communication, and payment experiences.





 


    We invest heavily in marketing and promotion, customer support,
    and further development of the operating infrastructure for our
    core and recently acquired operations. Some of this investment
    entails long-term contractual commitments. As a result, we may
    be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate
    for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our
    profitability. Growth rates in our most established markets,
    such as the U.S., Germany and the U.K., have continued to
    decline. Despite our efforts to stem these declines, growth
    rates in these and other markets may continue to decline and may
    become negative. As our penetration in established markets
    grows, we will increasingly need to focus on keeping existing
    users, especially our top buyers and sellers, active and
    increasing their activity level on our sites for growth. In
    addition, our Marketplaces business is facing increased
    competitive pressure. If we are unable to change our services in
    ways that reflect the changing demands of the ecommerce
    marketplace, particularly the higher growth of sales of
    fixed-price, new in-season items, our business will suffer.


 


    In January 2008, we announced significant changes to our
    Marketplaces business in three major areas: fee structure,
    seller incentives and standards, and feedback, as discussed
    above under “Item 1 — Business”. These
    changes have been controversial with many of our sellers. If
    these changes cause sellers to move their business away from our
    websites or otherwise fail to improve gross merchandise volume
    or the number of successful listings, our operating results and
    profitability will be harmed.


 


    In addition, because a large percentage of PayPal transactions
    originate on the eBay platform, declines in growth rates in
    major Marketplaces markets also adversely affect PayPal’s
    growth rate. The growth in Skype’s user activity has slowed
    somewhat as Skype has increased its focus on monetization of
    users. The expected future growth of our PayPal, Skype, StubHub,
    Shopping.com, and other lower margin businesses may also cause
    downward pressure on our profit margins because those businesses
    have lower gross margins than our Marketplaces platforms.


 



    We are
    exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest
    rates.


 


    Because we conduct a significant and growing portion of our
    business outside the United States but report our results in
    U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in
    currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency
    service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face
    financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or
    if exposure reports are delayed. PayPal also holds some
    corporate and customer funds in
    non-U.S. currencies,
    and thus its financial results are affected by the translation
    of these
    non-U.S. currencies
    into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations
    of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to
    foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of
    the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local
    currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the
    U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the
    translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions
    will result in increased net revenues, operating expenses, and
    net income. Similarly, our net revenues, operating expenses, and
    net income will be negatively impacted if the U.S. dollar
    strengthens against foreign currencies. Net revenues in the
    fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 were positively
    impacted by foreign currency translation of $276 million,
    compared to the prior fiscal year. Operating income for the
    fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 was positively impacted
    by foreign currency translation of $146 million, compared
    to the prior fiscal year. As exchange rates vary, net sales and
    other operating results, when translated, may differ materially
    from expectations. In particular, to the extent the
    U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, British pound,
    Australian dollar, and Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and
    profits will be reduced as a result of these translation
    adjustments. While from time to time we enter into transactions
    to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure,
    it is impossible to perfectly predict or completely eliminate
    the effects of this



    
    16



Table of Contents




    exposure. In addition, to the extent the U.S. dollar
    strengthens against the Euro, the British pound, the Australian
    dollar, and the Canadian dollar, cross-border trade related to
    purchases of dollar-denominated goods by
    non-U.S. purchasers
    may decrease, and that decrease may not be offset by a
    corresponding increase in cross-border trade involving purchases
    by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in other currencies.


 


    In addition, we face exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
    For example, reductions in U.S. interest rates may reduce
    our investment income, which in turn would lower our net
    interest income.


 



    The
    listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may
    harm our business.


 


    We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the
    future, communications alleging that certain items listed or
    sold through our service by our users infringe third-party
    copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual
    property rights. Although we have sought to work actively with
    the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings
    offering infringing items on our websites, some rights owners
    have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient.
    Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners
    have been active in asserting their rights against online
    companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of
    intellectual property rights have resulted in threats of
    litigation and actual litigation against us from time to time,
    including litigation brought by Tiffany & Co. in the
    U.S., Rolex S.A. in Germany, Louis Vuitton Malletier and
    Christian Dior Couture in France, L’Oréal SA,
    Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie, and Laboratoire
    Garnier & Cie in several European countries, and a
    number of other owners of intellectual property rights. The
    plaintiffs in these cases seek to hold eBay liable for
    counterfeit items listed on our sites by third parties, for
    “tester” and other not for resale consumer products
    listed on our sites by third parties, for the misuse of
    trademarks in listings or in connection with paid search
    advertisements, or for alleged violations of selective
    distribution channel laws. Such plaintiffs seek, among other
    things, injunctive relief and damages. In the aggregate, these
    suits could result in significant damage awards and could
    adversely affect our business. Other luxury brand owners have
    also filed suit against us or have threatened to do so. In
    addition to litigation from rights owners, we may be subject to
    criminal penalties if the authorities feel we have aided in the
    sale of counterfeit goods. While we have had some early success
    in defending against such litigation, more recent cases have
    been based, at least in part, on different legal theories than
    those of earlier cases, and there is no guarantee that we will
    continue to be successful in defending against such litigation.
    For example, the German Federal Supreme Court has ruled against
    us in the Rolex and IVD cases. Plaintiffs in
    recent cases have argued that we are not entitled to safe
    harbors under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the
    U.S. or as a hosting provider in the European Union because
    of the active nature of our involvement with our sellers, and
    that, whether or not such safe harbors are available, we should
    be found liable because we have not adequately removed
    counterfeit listings or effectively suspended users who have
    created such listings.


 


    Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners may
    also seek to bring legal action against entities that are
    peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items, such as
    payment companies. To the extent that intellectual property
    rights owners bring legal action against PayPal based upon the
    use of PayPal’s payment services in a transaction involving
    the sale of infringing items, including on our websites, our
    business could be harmed.


 


    Litigation and negative publicity has increased as our websites
    gain prominence in markets outside of the U.S., where the laws
    may be unsettled or less favorable to us. Such litigation is
    costly for us, could result in damage awards, injunctive relief,
    or increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or
    settlement, could require us to change our business practices in
    expensive ways, or could otherwise harm our business. Litigation
    against other online companies could result in interpretations
    of the law that could also require us to change our business
    practices or otherwise increase our costs. In addition, a public
    perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on
    our site could damage our reputation and our business.


 



    We are
    subject to patent litigation.


 


    We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other
    parties’ patents. Some of these ongoing suits are described
    under the heading “Item 3: Legal Proceedings,”
    below. We are a defendant in other patent suits and we have been
    notified of several other potential patent disputes, and expect
    that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement
    claims as our services expand in scope and complexity. In
    particular, we expect that we may face



    
    17



Table of Contents




    additional patent infringement claims involving various aspects
    of our Marketplaces, Payments and Communications segments. These
    claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and
    costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our
    methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly
    royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease
    conducting certain operations.


 



    Use of
    our services for illegal purposes could harm our
    business.


 


    The law relating to the liability of providers of online
    services for the activities of their users on their service is
    often challenged in the U.S. and internationally. Certain
    goods, such as weapons, adult material, tobacco products,
    alcohol, and other goods that may be subject to regulation have
    been listed and traded on our services. We may be unable to
    prevent our users from selling unlawful goods or services or
    selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and we may be
    subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for
    unlawful activities carried out by users through our services.
    We have been subject to several lawsuits based upon such
    allegations. In December 2004, an executive of Baazee.com, our
    Indian subsidiary, was arrested in connection with a user’s
    listing of a pornographic video clip on that website. Similarly,
    our Korean subsidiary and one of its employees were found
    criminally liable for listings on the Korean subsidiary’s
    website. The German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may
    have a duty to take reasonable measures to keep prohibited DVDs
    from being sold on our site to minors and that competitors may
    be able to enforce this duty. Although we have prohibited the
    listing of certain items and implemented other protective
    measures, in the future, we may be required to spend substantial
    resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue
    certain service offerings, any of which could harm our business.
    Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating
    to the sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods
    could harm our business. In addition, we have received
    significant and continuing media attention relating to the
    listing or sale of unlawful goods using our services. This
    negative publicity could damage our reputation and diminish the
    value of our brand names. It also could make users reluctant to
    use our services.


 


    PayPal’s payment system is also susceptible to potentially
    illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal online
    gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales
    of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of
    software and other intellectual property, money laundering, bank
    fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of
    alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, and online securities
    fraud. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for
    intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal
    activities. Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and
    lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, including PayPal’s
    ability to fine users in certain jurisdictions up to $500 or
    take legal action to recover its losses for certain violations
    of PayPal’s acceptable use policy, including online
    gambling and illegal sales of prescription medications. Illegal
    activities could still be funded using PayPal.


 


    PayPal is subject to anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist
    financing laws and regulations that prohibit, among other
    things, its involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal
    activities. Although PayPal has adopted a program to comply with
    these laws and regulations, any errors or failure to implement
    the program properly could lead to lawsuits, administrative
    action, and prosecution by the government. In July 2003, PayPal
    agreed with the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of
    Missouri that it would pay $10 million as a civil
    forfeiture to settle allegations that its provision of services
    to online gambling merchants violated provisions of the USA
    PATRIOT Act and further agreed to have its compliance program
    reviewed by an independent audit firm. PayPal is also subject to
    regulations that require it to report suspicious activities
    involving transactions of $2,000 or more and may be required to
    obtain and keep more detailed records on the senders and
    recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or more. The
    interpretation of suspicious activities in this context is
    uncertain. Future regulations under the USA PATRIOT Act may
    require PayPal to revise the procedures it uses to verify the
    identity of its customers and to monitor international
    transactions more closely. As PayPal localizes its service in
    other countries, additional verification and reporting
    requirements may apply, which in some cases are more stringent.
    Several countries, including Australia, Canada and Luxembourg,
    are in the process of implementing new anti-money laundering and
    counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and the impact
    of these laws and regulations on PayPal’s business is
    uncertain. These regulations could impose significant costs on
    PayPal and make it more difficult for new customers to join its
    network. PayPal could be required to learn more about its
    customers before opening an account, to obtain additional
    verification of customers and to monitor its customers’
    activities more closely. These requirements, as well as any
    additional restrictions imposed by credit card associations,
    could raise PayPal’s costs



    
    18



Table of Contents




    significantly and reduce the attractiveness of its product.
    Failure to comply with federal, state or foreign country money
    laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in
    significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties, and
    forfeiture of significant assets.


 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with information disseminated
    through our service.


 


    The law relating to the liability of online services companies
    for information carried on or disseminated through their
    services is currently unsettled. Claims could be made against
    online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law
    for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence,
    copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on
    the nature and content of the materials disseminated through
    their services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose
    liability upon us under a number of these theories have been
    brought against us. In addition, domestic and foreign
    legislation has been proposed that would prohibit or impose
    liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain
    types of information. Our service features a Feedback Forum,
    which includes information from users regarding other users.
    Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us,
    claims of defamation or other injury have been made in the past
    and could be made in the future against us for content posted in
    the Feedback Forum. Several court decisions have narrowed the
    scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers
    like us under the Communications Decency Act. This trend, if
    continued, may increase our potential liability to third parties
    for the user-provided content on our sites. Our liability for
    such claims may be higher in jurisdictions outside the
    U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are
    unsettled. If we become liable for information provided by our
    users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we
    operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to
    implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability.
    This may require us to expend substantial resources or to
    discontinue certain service offerings, which would negatively
    affect our financial results. In addition, the increased
    attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these
    lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or
    otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred
    as a result of this potential liability could harm our business.


 



    Government
    inquiries may lead to charges or penalties.


 


    A large number of transactions occur on our websites. Government
    regulators have received a significant number of consumer
    complaints about both eBay and PayPal, which, while small as a
    percentage of our total transactions, are large in aggregate
    numbers. As a result, from time to time we have been contacted
    by various foreign and domestic governmental regulatory agencies
    that have questions about our operations and the steps we take
    to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has received inquiries
    regarding its restriction and disclosure practices from the
    Federal Trade Commission and regarding these and other business
    practices from the attorneys general of a number of states. In
    September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with
    the attorneys general of a number of states under which it
    agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general,
    shorten and streamline its user agreement, increase educational
    messaging to users about funding choices, and communicate more
    information regarding protection programs to users. We are
    likely to receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies
    in the future, which may lead to action against us. We have
    responded to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by
    describing our current and planned antifraud efforts, customer
    support procedures, operating procedures and disclosures. If one
    or more of these agencies is not satisfied with our response to
    current or future inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement
    actions, fines or other penalties, or forced to change our
    operating practices in ways that could harm our business.


 



    We are
    subject to general litigation and regulatory
    disputes.


 


    From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or
    regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of
    business. The number and significance of these disputes and
    inquiries are increasing as our business expands and our company
    grows larger. We have in the past been forced to litigate such
    claims. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims
    as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham
    Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the
    courts and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where
    the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of
    online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or
    less favorable. In Germany, the German Federal Supreme Court has
    ruled that we may owe duties, under certain circumstances, to
    content owners and competitors relating to taking reasonable
    steps to prevent the listing of



    
    19



Table of Contents




    illegal, counterfeit, and pirated items. Any claims or
    regulatory actions against us, whether meritorious or not, could
    be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require
    significant amounts of management time, and result in the
    diversion of significant operational resources.


 



    Failure
    to deal effectively with fraudulent transactions and customer
    disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our
    business.


 


    PayPal’s highly automated and liquid payment service makes
    PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its
    service, PayPal continually strives to maintain the right
    balance of appropriate measures to promote both convenience and
    security for customers. Identity thieves and those committing
    fraud using stolen credit card or bank account numbers can
    potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as
    PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal’s current and
    former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone
    out of business or significantly restricted their businesses
    largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses
    advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically
    knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent
    PayPal’s anti-fraud systems. In addition, PayPal’s
    service could be subject to employee fraud or other internal
    security breaches, and PayPal may be required to reimburse
    customers for any funds stolen as a result of such breaches.
    Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using
    PayPal, if they are affected by buyer fraud.


 


    PayPal incurs substantial losses from merchant fraud, including
    claims from customers that merchants have not performed or that
    their goods or services do not match the merchant’s
    description. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the
    customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from
    erroneous transmissions, and from customers who have closed bank
    accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments.
    In addition to the direct costs of such losses, if they are
    related to credit card transactions and become excessive, they
    could result in PayPal losing the right to accept credit cards
    for payment. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, the
    velocity of trade on eBay could decrease, in which case our
    business would further suffer. PayPal was assessed substantial
    fines for excess chargebacks in 2001, and excessive chargebacks
    may arise in the future. PayPal has taken measures to detect and
    reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be
    continually improved and may not be effective against new forms
    of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If these
    measures do not succeed, our business will suffer.


 


    PayPal offers a buyer protection program for transactions on
    eBay.com that refunds up to $2,000 to buyers who used PayPal in
    transactions with selected sellers if the buyer did not receive
    the goods they purchased or if the goods differed significantly
    from what was described by the seller and up to $200 in most
    other eBay transactions. PayPal has expanded this program to
    many eBay international marketplaces, in most cases with lower
    reimbursement amounts. If PayPal makes such a refund, it may
    seek to collect reimbursement from the seller, but may not be
    able to receive any funds from the seller. The PayPal buyer
    protection program has increased PayPal’s loss rate and
    could cause future fluctuations in PayPal’s loss rate. For
    the full years ended December 31, 2006 and
    December 31, 2007, PayPal’s transaction loss
    (including both direct losses and buyer protection payouts)
    totaled $126.4 million and $139.3 million,
    representing 0.35% and 0.29% of PayPal’s net Total
    Payment Volume, respectively.


 


    eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities
    on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from
    users who may not have received the goods that they had
    purchased. In some cases individuals have been arrested and
    convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay
    also receives complaints from sellers who have not received
    payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase.
    Non-payment may occur because of miscommunication, because a
    buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the
    contract to purchase the item, or because the buyer bid on the
    item maliciously in order to harm either the seller or eBay. In
    some European jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to
    withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a
    specified time period.


 


    While eBay can suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill
    their payment or delivery obligations to other users, eBay does
    not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver
    goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through our
    limited buyer protection programs. Other than through these
    programs, eBay does not compensate users who believe they have
    been defrauded by other users, although users who pay through
    PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their credit card
    company or bank, which in turn will seek reimbursement



    
    20



Table of Contents




    from PayPal. eBay also periodically receives complaints from
    buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased. We expect to
    continue to receive communications from users requesting
    reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against
    us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of
    claims is only beginning to be clarified and may be higher in
    some
    non-U.S. jurisdictions
    than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for
    third-party actions could be costly for us, divert management
    attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to
    adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition,
    affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that
    could take action against us, including imposing fines or
    seeking injunctions.


 


    Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of
    fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our eBay and PayPal
    services could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to
    attract new users or retain our current users, and diminish the
    value of our brand names. We believe that negative user
    experiences are one of the primary reasons users stop using our
    services.


 



    Any
    factors which reduce cross-border trade could harm our
    business


 


    Cross-border transactions using our websites generally provide
    higher gross margins than similar transactions that take place
    within a single country due to higher transaction fees we earn
    for those transactions. To the extent that any factors,
    including fluctuations in exchange rates or the application of
    specific national laws to users in other countries, result in a
    net reduction in cross-border trade, our business could suffer.


 



    Our
    business is subject to online security risks, including security
    breaches and identity theft.


 


    To succeed, online commerce and communications must provide a
    secure transmission of confidential information over public
    networks. Our security measures may not detect or prevent
    security breaches that could harm our business. Currently, a
    significant number of our users authorize us to bill their
    credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged
    by us. PayPal’s users routinely provide credit card and
    other financial information. We rely on encryption and
    authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide
    the security and authentication to effect secure transmission of
    confidential information, including customer credit card
    numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in
    the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a
    compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect
    transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to
    illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the
    user’s transaction data. An increasing number of websites
    including, recently, our Korean subsidiary, have reported
    breaches of their security. Any compromise of our security could
    harm our reputation and, therefore, our business, and could
    result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws. In
    addition, a party that is able to circumvent our security
    measures could misappropriate proprietary information, cause
    interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of
    our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business.
    Under credit card rules and our contract with our card
    processors, if there is a breach of credit card information that
    we store, or that is stored by PayPal’s direct credit card
    processing customers, we could be liable to the credit card
    issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related
    expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow credit card industry
    security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer
    information, we could incur significant fines or lose our
    ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to
    fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to
    accept credit cards, our business would be seriously damaged.


 


    Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or
    electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and we have
    experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our
    system that have made all or portions of our websites
    unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend
    significant resources to protect against security breaches or to
    address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to
    become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we
    operate. Security breaches, including any breach that results in
    the release of our users’ personal information, could
    damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or
    litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry
    low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us
    for losses caused by security breaches.


 


    Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet
    companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties
    using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing”
    emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or
    other personal information or to introduce viruses through
    “trojan horse” programs to our users’ computers.
    These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by eBay,
    PayPal, Skype, or a user of one of those businesses, but direct



    
    21



Table of Contents




    recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email
    or request that the recipient send a password or other
    confidential information via email or download a program.
    Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” emails through
    product improvements and user education, “spoof” and
    “phishing” remain a serious problem that may damage
    our brand, discourage use of our websites, and increase our
    costs.


 



    Changes
    in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection
    of user data could adversely affect our business.


 


    We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use,
    retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable
    information about our users, especially for financial
    information and for users located outside of the U.S. In
    many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party
    transactions but also to transfers of information between
    ourselves and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our
    subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial
    relations. New laws in this area have been passed by several
    jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing
    additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of
    user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may
    be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to
    country and our current data protection policies and practices
    may not be consistent with those interpretations and
    applications. Complying with these varying international
    requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or
    require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse
    to our business. In addition, we have and post on our websites
    our own privacy policies and practices concerning the
    collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or
    perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy
    policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other
    federal, state or international privacy or consumer
    protection-related laws and regulations could result in
    proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or
    others, subject us to significant penalties and negative
    publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above,
    we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which
    themselves may result in a violation of these laws.


 



    Our
    revenue from advertising is subject to factors beyond our
    control.


 


    We derive an increasing portion of our revenues from advertising
    on our websites. Revenues from online advertising are sensitive
    to events and trends that affect advertising expenditures, such
    as general changes in the economy and changes in consumer
    spending, as well as the effectiveness of online advertising
    versus offline advertising media and the value our websites
    provide to advertisers relative to other websites. If we
    experience a reduction in our advertising revenues due to
    economic, competitive or other factors, including if we are
    unable to provide value to our advertisers, our business and
    financial results would suffer.


 



    Our
    growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and
    these efforts may be costly.


 


    Our historical growth has been largely attributable to word of
    mouth, and to frequent and high visibility national and local
    media coverage. We believe that continuing to strengthen our
    brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of
    our services, and will require an increased focus on active
    marketing efforts across all of our brands. The demand for and
    cost of online and traditional advertising have been increasing,
    and may continue to increase. Accordingly, we will need to spend
    increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to,
    advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain
    brand loyalty among users. Since 2004, we have significantly
    increased the number of brands we are supporting, adding
    Rent.com, Shopping.com, Kijiji, StubHub, and Skype, among
    others. Each of these brands requires its own resources,
    increasing the costs of our branding efforts. Brand promotion
    activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they
    do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred
    in building our brands. Also, major search engine operators that
    we use to advertise our brands have frequently-changing rules
    that govern their pricing, availability and placement of online
    advertisement (e.g., paid search, keywords), and changes to
    these rules could negatively affect our use of online
    advertising to promote our brands. If we do attract new users to
    our services, they may not conduct transactions using our
    services on a regular basis. If we fail to promote and maintain
    our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in an
    unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our
    business would be harmed.



    
    22



Table of Contents





    New
    and existing regulations could harm our business.


 


    We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other
    companies conducting business on and off the Internet. It is not
    clear how existing laws governing issues such as property
    ownership, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual
    property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls,
    taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and personal privacy
    apply to online businesses such as ours. The majority of these
    laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and
    related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or
    address the unique issues of the Internet and related
    technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as
    the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European
    Union’s Directive on Distance Selling and Electronic
    Commerce, are being interpreted by the courts, but their
    applicability and scope remain uncertain. Furthermore, as our
    activities and the types of goods and services listed on our
    websites expand, including through acquisitions such as our
    acquisition of StubHub, an online ticket marketplace, in
    February 2007, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold
    that we or our users are either subject to licensure or
    prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction,
    either with respect to our services in general, or with respect
    the sale of certain items, such as real estate, event tickets,
    cultural goods, boats, and automobiles.


 


    Our success and increased visibility has driven some existing
    businesses that perceive our business model to be a threat to
    their business to raise concerns about our business models to
    policymakers and regulators, particularly in the U.S. and
    Europe. These established businesses and their trade association
    groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape
    the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have
    significant operations. They may employ these resources in an
    effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways
    intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the
    ability of users to use our products and services. In
    particular, these established businesses have raised concerns
    relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller
    obligations, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other
    intellectual property rights, and the liability of the provider
    of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related
    to those and other issues. Success in changing the legal or
    regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability
    for third party listings could negatively impact our business.


 


    Over the last few years some large retailers and their trade
    associations have sought legislation in numerous states and the
    U.S. Congress that would make eBay liable for the sale of
    stolen property or would ban certain categories of goods from
    sale on our platform, including gift cards and health and beauty
    products. No such legislation has passed. Nonetheless, the
    proponents continue to seek passage of such legislation, and if
    any of these laws are adopted it could harm our business.


 


    Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State
    of California, where our headquarters are located, have
    regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of
    property by “secondhand dealers” or
    “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign
    jurisdictions, including France, have attempted, and may attempt
    in the future, to impose such regulations upon us or our users.
    Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users
    appears to be increasing and such attempted enforcements could
    harm our business. In France, we have been sued by Conseil des
    Ventes, the French auction regulatory authority. The agency
    alleges that sales on our French website constitute illegal
    auctions which cannot be performed without their consent. This
    and other regulatory and licensure claims could result in costly
    litigation or could require us to change the way we or our users
    do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues or
    force us to prohibit listings of certain items for some
    locations. We could also be subject to fines or other penalties,
    and any of these outcomes could harm our business.


 


    A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues
    seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For
    example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide
    trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a
    branded product until it has been placed on the market by the
    trademark holder or with the holder’s consent. The
    application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is
    largely unsettled outside of the EU, and if trademark owners are
    able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or
    more locations, our business could be harmed.


 


    As we expand and localize our international activities, we
    become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries in
    which we operate. In addition, because our services are
    accessible worldwide, and we facilitate sales of goods to users
    worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our
    users are required to comply with their laws based on the
    location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the
    location of the product or service being



    
    23



Table of Contents




    sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. Laws regulating
    Internet and ecommerce companies outside of the U.S. may be
    less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to
    consumers, content owners, competitors, users and other third
    parties. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to
    change our business practices or restrict our service offerings,
    and the imposition of any regulations on our users may harm our
    business. In addition, we may be subject to overlapping legal or
    regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us.
    Our failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to
    penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines
    to bans on our services.


 



    If
    PayPal were found to be subject to or in violation of any U.S.
    laws or regulations governing banking, money transmission, or
    electronic funds transfers, it could be subject to liability and
    forced to change its business practices.


 


    Nearly all U.S. states and territories have enacted
    legislation regulating money transmitters. To date, PayPal has
    obtained licenses in 41 of these jurisdictions and
    interpretations in six states that licensing is not required
    under their existing statutes, and is applying for licenses in
    two additional states. The remaining U.S states and territories
    do not currently regulate money transmitters. As a licensed
    money transmitter, Paypal is subject to bonding requirements,
    restrictions on its investment of customer funds, reporting
    requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. In
    July 2005, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement and agreed
    to pay $225,000 to the California Department of Financial
    Institutions in connection with alleged violations of the
    California Financial Code relating to the use of a receipt form
    for international payments that had not been pre-approved by the
    Department, and incomplete reporting to the Department. If
    PayPal were found to be in violation of other money services
    laws or regulations, PayPal could be subject to liability,
    forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states,
    or forced to change its business practices. Any change to
    PayPal’s business practices that makes the service less
    attractive to customers or prohibits its use by residents of a
    particular jurisdiction could decrease the velocity of trade on
    eBay, which would further harm our business. Even if PayPal is
    not forced to change its business practices, it could be
    required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals
    that could impose a substantial cost on PayPal.


 


    Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date,
    PayPal has assumed that its service is subject to the Electronic
    Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the Federal
    Reserve Board. As a result, among other things, PayPal must
    provide advance disclosure of changes to its service, follow
    specified error resolution procedures and reimburse consumers
    for losses above $50 from transactions not authorized by the
    consumer. PayPal currently voluntarily reimburses consumers for
    all financial losses from transactions not authorized by the
    consumer, not just losses above $50. PayPal seeks to pass most
    of these losses on to the relevant merchants, but PayPal incurs
    losses if the merchant does not have sufficient funds in its
    PayPal account. In addition, PayPal is subject to the financial
    privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, state
    financial privacy laws, and related regulations. As a result,
    some customer financial information that PayPal receives is
    subject to limitations on reuse and disclosure. Existing and
    potential future privacy laws may limit PayPal’s ability to
    develop new products and services that make use of data gathered
    through its service. The provisions of these laws and related
    regulations are complicated. Even technical violations of these
    laws can result in penalties of up to $1,000 for each
    non-compliant transaction. PayPal processed an average of
    approximately 1.96 million transactions per day during the
    year ended December 31, 2007, and any violations could
    expose PayPal to significant liability. Any negative change in
    the public’s perception of PayPal’s compliance with
    privacy laws and policies could also negatively impact
    PayPal’s business.


 



    PayPal
    is subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg, and its status
    under banking or financial services laws or other laws in
    markets outside the U.S. is unclear.


 


    PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to send
    payments from 190 markets, and allows its customers to receive
    payments in 65 of those markets (including the U.S.). Customers
    can only withdraw funds electronically to local bank accounts in
    35 of these 65 markets. In 26 of these 65 markets customers can
    withdraw funds electronically to their credit or debit card. In
    two of these 65 markets customers can only withdraw funds
    locally by receiving a bank draft in the mail, and in another
    two of these 65 markets, customers cannot withdraw locally and
    can only withdraw funds if they have a U.S. bank account.
    These limitations affect PayPal’s ability to grow in these
    markets. PayPal also offers customers the ability to send or
    receive payments denominated in



    
    24



Table of Contents




    17 currencies. Of the 190 markets whose residents can use
    the PayPal service, 31 (27 countries plus four French overseas
    departments) are members of the European Union. Previously,
    PayPal delivered services in the EU through a subsidiary in the
    United Kingdom licensed to operate as an Electronic Money
    Institution. As of July 2007, PayPal provides localized versions
    of its service to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe)
    S.A.R.L. et Cie, SCA., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that
    is licensed as a bank in Luxembourg. Accordingly, PayPal
    (Europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement
    action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money
    laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate
    governance or other requirements imposed on Luxembourg banks.
    PayPal does not have experience in operating as a bank, and any
    fines or other enforcement actions imposed by the Luxembourg
    regulator could adversely affect PayPal’s business. PayPal
    (Europe) implements its localized services in EU countries
    through an expedited “passport” notification process
    through the Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EU
    member states pursuant to EU Directives, and has completed the
    “passport” notice process in all EU member countries.
    The regulators in these countries could notify PayPal (Europe)
    of local consumer protection laws that will apply to its
    business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection law. The
    regulators in these countries could also seek to persuade the
    Luxembourg regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its
    activities in the local country through a branch office. Any
    such responses from these regulators could increase the cost of,
    or delay, PayPal’s plans for expanding its business.


 


    In markets other than the U.S., EU, Australia and China, PayPal
    serves its customers through PayPal Singapore Private Ltd.,
    a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore.
    In many of these markets, it is not clear whether PayPal’s
    Singapore-based service is subject to local law or, if it is
    subject to local law, whether such local law requires a payment
    processor like PayPal to be licensed as a bank or financial
    institution or otherwise. Even if PayPal is not currently
    required to obtain a license in those countries, future
    localization or targeted marketing of PayPal’s service in
    those countries could require licensure. PayPal could be
    required to obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could
    impose a substantial cost on it and involve considerable delay
    to the provision or development of its product. Delay or failure
    to receive such a license would require PayPal to change its
    business practices or features in ways that would adversely
    affect PayPal’s international expansion plans and could
    require PayPal to suspend providing services to customers in one
    or more countries. PayPal may also be subject to other laws and
    regulations of one or more countries in which it serves its
    customers, such as data protection and anti-money laundering
    laws, which vary from country to country and are subject to
    change. In some cases, these laws may require expensive changes
    to PayPal’s current business practices. If PayPal were
    found to be subject to and in violation of any foreign laws or
    regulations, it could be subject to liability, forced to change
    its business practices or forced to suspend providing services
    to customers in one or more countries.


 


    In addition, if PayPal were to seek to expand the financial
    products that it offers outside of the U.S., either alone,
    through a commercial alliance, or through an acquisition, PayPal
    could become subject to additional licensure requirements,
    additional laws and regulations, or increased regulatory
    scrutiny, which could impose substantial costs and delay the
    introduction of any new products.


 



    Changes
    to credit card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could
    harm PayPal’s business.


 


    PayPal does not belong to or directly access credit card
    networks, such as Visa and MasterCard. As a result, PayPal must
    rely on banks or other payment processors to process
    transactions, and must pay a fee for this service. From time to
    time, credit card associations may increase the interchange fees
    that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards.
    PayPal’s credit card processors have the right to pass any
    increases in interchange fees on to PayPal as well as increase
    their own fees for processing. These increased fees increase
    PayPal’s operating costs and reduce its profit margins.
    PayPal is also required by its processors to comply with credit
    card association operating rules, and PayPal has agreed to
    reimburse its processors for any fines they are assessed by
    credit card associations as a result of any rule violations by
    PayPal or PayPal’s customers. The credit card associations
    set and interpret the credit card rules. Credit card networks
    could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules
    that PayPal or its processors might find difficult or even
    impossible to follow. As a result, PayPal could lose its ability
    to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their
    payments. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, its
    business would be seriously damaged. In addition, the velocity
    of trade on eBay could decrease and our business would further
    suffer.



    
    25



Table of Contents




    PayPal is required to comply with credit card networks special
    operating rules for Internet payment services. PayPal and its
    credit card processors have implemented specific business
    processes for merchant customers in order to comply with these
    rules, but any failure to comply could result in fines, the
    amount of which would be within the credit card networks’
    discretion. PayPal also could be subject to fines from credit
    card networks if it fails to detect that merchants are engaging
    in activities that are illegal or that are considered “high
    risk,” primarily the sale of certain types of digital
    content. For “high risk” merchants, PayPal must either
    prevent such merchants from using PayPal or register such
    merchants with credit card networks and conduct additional
    monitoring with respect to such merchants. PayPal has incurred
    fines from its credit card processor relating to PayPal’s
    failure to detect the use of its service by “high
    risk” merchants. The amount of these fines has not been
    material, but any additional fines in the future would likely be
    for larger amounts, could become material, and could result in a
    termination of PayPal’s ability to accept credit cards or
    changes in PayPal’s process for registering new customers,
    which would seriously damage PayPal’s business.


 



    Changes
    in PayPal’s funding mix could adversely affect
    PayPal’s results.


 


    PayPal pays significant transaction fees when senders fund
    payment transactions using credit cards, nominal fees when
    customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of
    funds from bank accounts, and no fees when customers fund
    payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance or
    use buyer credit issued by GE Money Bank. Senders fund a
    significant portion of PayPal’s payment volume using credit
    cards, and PayPal’s financial success will remain highly
    sensitive to changes in the rate at which its senders fund
    payments using credit cards. Senders may prefer funding using
    credit cards rather than bank account transfers for a number of
    reasons, including the ability to dispute and reverse charges
    directly with their credit card provider if merchandise is not
    delivered or is not as described, the ability to earn frequent
    flier miles or other incentives offered by credit card issuers,
    the ability to defer payment, or a reluctance to provide bank
    account information to PayPal. In addition, some of
    PayPal’s newer offerings, including the ability to make a
    limited number of payments without opening an account, have a
    higher rate of credit card funding than PayPal’s basic
    product offering. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a
    settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of
    states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the
    attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement,
    and communicate more information regarding protection programs
    to users. Also in September 2006, PayPal announced that it had
    reached a preliminary settlement agreement under which it agreed
    to pay approximately $3.5 million into a settlement fund
    for the benefit of a class represented by plaintiffs in a suit
    that alleged, among other things, that PayPal’s disclosure
    regarding the effects of users’ choice of funding mechanism
    was deceptive. This settlement was rejected by the court.
    Although PayPal did not admit any liability for any of the
    allegations in the two cases, changes to our disclosure
    practices could result in increased use of credit card funding,
    which would harm PayPal’s business.


 



    PayPal’s
    failure to manage customer funds properly would harm its
    business.


 


    PayPal’s ability to manage and account accurately for
    customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. In
    some of the markets that PayPal serves and currencies that
    PayPal offers, PayPal has a limited operating history and
    limited management experience in managing these internal
    controls. As PayPal’s business continues to grow, it must
    strengthen its internal controls accordingly. PayPal’s
    success requires significant public confidence in its ability to
    handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of
    customer funds. Any failure to maintain necessary controls or to
    manage accurately customer funds could diminish customer use of
    PayPal’s product severely.


 



    System
    failures could harm our business.


 


    We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any
    interruption in the availability of our websites will reduce our
    current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and
    profits, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Our
    eBay.com website has been interrupted for periods of up to
    22 hours, and our PayPal website has suffered intermittent
    unavailability for periods as long as five days. In August 2007,
    Skype experienced an interruption during which the majority of
    Skype’s users were unable to use its products for
    approximately two days. Any unscheduled interruption in our
    services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss
    of revenues. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our
    services could cause current or potential users to believe that



    
    26



Table of Contents




    our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our
    competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm
    our reputation and brands. Reliability is particularly critical
    for PayPal, especially as it seeks to expand its Merchant
    Services business. Because PayPal is a regulated financial
    entity, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to
    fines, penalties, or mandatory changes to PayPal’s business
    practices, and ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing
    licenses it needs to operate or prevent it from obtaining
    additional licenses that it needs to expand. Finally, because
    our customers may use our products for critical transactions,
    any system failures could result in damage to our
    customers’ businesses. These customers could seek
    significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if
    unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming
    and costly for us to address.


 


    Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard
    architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or
    catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or
    interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss,
    telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses,
    computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Some of
    our systems, including our Shopping.com and Skype websites, are
    not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not
    sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject
    to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism.
    Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural
    disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers
    to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial
    or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting
    facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our
    services. We do not carry business interruption insurance
    sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from
    interruptions in our service as a result of system failures.


 



    There
    are many risks associated with our international
    operations.


 


    Our international expansion has been rapid and our international
    business, especially in Germany and the U.K., has also become
    critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues outside the
    U.S. accounted for approximately 48% and 51%, respectively,
    of our net revenues in fiscal year 2006 and fiscal 2007.
    Expansion into international markets requires management
    attention and resources and requires us to localize our services
    to conform to local cultures, standards, and policies. The
    commercial, Internet, and transportation infrastructure in
    lesser-developed countries may make it more difficult for us to
    replicate our traditional Marketplace business model. In many
    countries, we compete with local companies that understand the
    local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from
    first-to-market advantages. We may not be successful in
    expanding into particular international markets or in generating
    revenues from foreign operations. For example, in 2002 we
    withdrew our eBay marketplace offering from the Japanese market,
    and in 2007 we contributed our business in China to a joint
    venture with a local Chinese company. Even if we are successful
    in developing new markets, we often expect the costs of
    operating new sites to exceed our net revenues for at least
    12 months in most countries.


 


    As we continue to expand internationally, including through the
    expansion of PayPal, Skype, Shopping.com, and our classified
    businesses, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing
    business internationally, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    strong local competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet
    services, communications, auctioneering, professional selling,
    distance selling, data protection, banking, and money
    transmitting, that may limit or prevent the offering of our
    services in some jurisdictions, prevent enforceable agreements
    between sellers and buyers, prohibit the listing of certain
    categories of goods, require product changes, require special
    licensure, subject us to various taxes, penalties or audits, or
    limit the transfer of information between eBay and our
    affiliates;




 



     
        • 

    
    greater liability or legal uncertainty regarding our liability
    for the listings and other content provided by our users,
    including uncertainty as a result of legal systems that are less
    developed with respect to the Internet, unique local laws,
    conflicting court decisions and lack of clear precedent or
    applicable law;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in integrating with local payment providers,
    including banks, credit and debit card associations, and
    electronic fund transfer systems or with the local
    telecommunications infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing levels of retail distribution, shipping,
    communications, and Internet infrastructures;






    
    27



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    different employee/employer relationships and the existence of
    workers’ councils and labor unions;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    challenges associated with joint venture relationships,
    including dependence on our joint venture partners;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal
    controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, and
    greater problems in collecting accounts receivable;




 



     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation
    of our fees or of transactions on our websites;




 



     
        • 

    
    higher telecommunications and Internet service provider costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    different and more stringent user protection, data protection,
    privacy and other laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, online
    trading;




 



     
        • 

    
    seasonal reductions in business activity;




 



     
        • 

    
    expenses associated with localizing our products, including
    offering customers the ability to transact business in the local
    currency;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and business practices that favor local competitors or
    prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange
    restrictions, and exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    volatility in a specific country’s or region’s
    political, economic or military conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    differing intellectual property laws.





 


    Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing
    business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. As we expand
    our international operations and have additional portions of our
    international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we
    also could become subject to increased difficulties in
    collecting accounts receivable, repatriating money without
    adverse tax consequences, and risks relating to foreign currency
    exchange rate fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate
    fluctuations is discussed in more detail under “We are
    exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest
    rates,” above.


 


    In addition, we conduct certain functions, including product
    development, customer support and other operations, in regions
    outside the U.S., particularly in India and China. We are
    subject to both U.S. and local laws and regulations
    applicable to our offshore activities, and any factors which
    reduce the anticipated benefits, including cost efficiencies and
    productivity improvements, associated with providing these
    functions outside of the U.S. could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    We are continuing to expand PayPal’s services
    internationally. In some countries, expansion of PayPal’s
    business may require a close commercial relationship with one or
    more local banks, a shared ownership interest with a local
    entity or registration as a bank under local law. Such
    requirements may reduce our profitability or limit the scope of
    our activities in particular countries. Any limitation on our
    ability to expand PayPal internationally could harm our business.


 


    We maintain a portion of Shopping.com’s research and
    development facilities and personnel in Israel, and in January
    2008 we acquired Fraud Sciences Ltd., an Israeli company. As a
    result, political, economic and military conditions in Israel
    affect those operations. The future of peace efforts between
    Israel and its neighboring countries remains uncertain.
    Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed
    hostilities between Israel and neighboring states could make it
    more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel,
    which could increase our costs. In addition, many of our
    employees in Israel could be required to serve in the military
    for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances. Our
    Israeli operations could be disrupted by the absence of
    employees due to military service, which could adversely affect
    our business.



    
    28



Table of Contents





    Acquisitions
    and joint ventures could result in operating difficulties,
    dilution, and other harmful consequences.


 


    We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including,
    most recently, Fraud Sciences Ltd. and StumbleUpon. We expect to
    continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential
    strategic transactions, including business combinations,
    acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies,
    services, products and other assets. At any given time we may be
    engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or
    more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions
    could be material to our financial condition and results of
    operations. The process of integrating any acquired business may
    create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is
    itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from
    operating the businesses to issues related to integration and
    administration, particularly given the large number and size and
    varying scope of our recent acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from
    changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in
    management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the
    direction of the business;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to integrate each company’s accounting,
    management, information, human resource and other administrative
    systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control
    if such integration is delayed or not implemented;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to implement controls, procedures and policies
    appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior
    to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate
    operations across different cultures and languages and to
    address the particular economic, currency, political, and
    regulatory risks associated with specific countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    in some cases, the need to transition operations, users, and
    customers onto our existing platforms; and




 



     
        • 

    
    liability for activities of the acquired company before the
    acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and
    regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other
    known and unknown liabilities.





 


    Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or
    all of our acquisitions, or may not realize them in the time
    frame expected. For example, in connection with the Skype
    transaction, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of
    approximately $1.4 billion in our financial statements
    during 2007. Future acquisitions or mergers may result in a need
    to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur
    debt, liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible
    assets or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could reduce our
    profitability and harm our business.


 


    In addition, we have made investments in certain joint ventures
    in which we have a minority equity interest, and lack management
    and operational control. These investments in joint ventures may
    involve risks, including the risk that the controlling joint
    venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals
    that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business
    decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint
    venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm
    to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our
    investment in the joint venture.


 



    Our
    business and users may be subject to sales tax and other
    taxes.


 


    The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax,
    value-added tax, or VAT, goods and services tax, business tax,
    and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses such as eBay and
    to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the
    fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes
    were established before the growth of the Internet and
    ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes
    apply to the Internet or electronic commerce or communications
    conducted over the Internet. In addition, some jurisdictions
    have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing
    the Internet or some aspect of electronic commerce or
    communications on the Internet. From time to time, some taxing
    authorities have notified us that they believe we owe them
    certain taxes. The application of existing or future laws could
    have adverse effects on our business.



    
    29



Table of Contents




    Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and
    local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of
    goods and services or communications through the Internet. These
    proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of
    ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to
    derive financial benefit from our activities. The
    U.S. federal government’s moratorium on state and
    local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory
    taxes on ecommerce was extended through November 2014 through
    legislation enacted in October 2007. This moratorium does not
    prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting
    taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were
    in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium
    and/or one
    of its extensions. If the moratorium were to expire there could
    be an adverse effect on our business.


 


    In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax
    Project — an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S.,
    state, and local governments to require collection and
    remittance of distant sales tax by out-of-state
    sellers — bills have been introduced in the
    U.S. Congress to overturn the Supreme Court’s Quill
    decision, which limits the ability of state governments to
    require sellers outside of their own state to collect and remit
    sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. An
    overturning of the Quill decision without a robust small
    business exemption would harm our users and our business.


 


    We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users
    of our services. One or more states or the federal government or
    foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection or
    reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage
    in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed
    by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and
    legislation to such effect has been discussed in the
    U.S. Congress, several states, and a number of foreign
    jurisdictions) or if an eBay company was ever deemed to be the
    legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in
    which eBay operates. One or more jurisdictions may also seek to
    impose tax-collection or reporting obligations based on the
    location of the product or service being sold or provided in an
    ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users
    are located. Imposition of a record keeping or tax collecting
    requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and
    would harm our business. Foreign authorities may also require
    eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with local laws
    regulating professional sellers, including tax requirements. In
    addition, we have periodically received requests from tax
    authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the
    transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in
    some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data.
    The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction
    records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory
    authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers,
    especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on
    alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to
    investigate, collect taxes from, or prosecute sellers, could
    decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business.


 


    We pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the
    various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are
    entitled to reclaim input VAT from the various countries.
    However, because of our unique business model, the application
    of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes
    uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that
    we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business.


 


    We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and
    legislators to clarify eBay’s obligations under new and
    emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and
    the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting
    requirements could harm our users and our business. There have
    been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs
    associated with complying with the various indirect tax
    requirements in the numerous markets in which eBay conducts or
    will conduct business.


 



    The
    current regulatory environment for Voice over Internet Protocol
    (VoIP) is uncertain, and Skype’s business could be harmed
    by new regulations or the application of existing regulations to
    its products.


 


    The current regulatory environment for VoIP is uncertain and
    rapidly changing. Skype’s voice communications products are
    currently subject to few, if any, of the same regulations that
    apply to traditional telephony and VoIP-based telephone
    replacement services. VoIP companies are generally subject to
    different regulatory regimes in different countries, and in most
    cases are subject to lower, or no, regulatory fees and lesser,
    or no, specific regulatory requirements. Regulatory agencies may
    require Skype to conform to rules that are difficult or
    impossible for it to comply with due to the nature of its
    communications technologies, which could adversely affect its
    business. For example, while suitable alternatives may be
    developed in the future, Skype is currently unable to identify
    the exact geographic origin of the traffic traversing the
    Internet or to provide detailed calling information about
    computer-to-



    
    30



Table of Contents




    computer communications, either of which may make complying with
    future regulatory requirements, such as emergency service
    requirements, difficult or impossible.


 


    Governments may impose new or increased fees, taxes, and
    administrative burdens on VoIP companies, or Skype may change
    its product offerings in a manner that makes it become subject
    to telecommunications regulations. Increased fees could include
    access and other charges payable to local exchange carriers to
    carry and terminate traffic, contributions to federal or state
    Universal Service Funds in the United States and elsewhere, and
    other charges. In addition, such fees may be assessed by
    governments retroactively or prospectively. Skype may be
    required to meet various emergency service requirements,
    disability access requirements, user protection requirements,
    number assignment and portability requirements, and interception
    or wiretapping requirements, such as the Communications
    Assistance for Law Enforcement Act in the U.S. and similar
    laws in other jurisdictions. Such regulations could result in
    substantial costs depending on the technical changes required to
    accommodate the requirements, and any increased costs could
    erode Skype’s pricing advantage over competing forms of
    communication. Regulations that decrease the degree of privacy
    for users of Skype’s products could also slow its adoption.
    The increasing growth and popularity of the VoIP telephony and
    Internet communications market heighten the risk that
    governments will seek to regulate VoIP and Internet
    communications, and Skype has received an increasing number of
    inquiries from regulators about its products and services.
    Competitors, including the incumbent telephone companies, may
    devote substantial lobbying efforts to seek greater protection
    for their existing businesses and increased regulation of VoIP.
    In the United States, various state legislatures and regulatory
    agencies are beginning to impose their own requirements and
    taxes on VoIP. Some countries have prohibited Skype. In many
    countries in which Skype products are available, the laws that
    may relate to its offerings are unclear. We cannot be certain
    that Skype or its customers are currently in full compliance
    with regulatory or other legal requirements in all countries in
    which Skype is used. Skype’s failure or the failure of
    those with whom Skype transacts business to comply with these
    requirements could materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations. In addition,
    increased regulatory requirements on VoIP would increase
    Skype’s costs, and, as a result, our business would suffer.


 


    New rules and regulations with respect to VoIP are being
    considered in various countries around the world, and at least
    some of these rules and regulations are likely to be adopted and
    to be applicable to Skype. Such new rules and regulations are
    likely to increase our costs of doing business and could prevent
    us from delivering our products and offerings over the Internet,
    which could adversely affect Skype’s customer base, and
    thus its revenue.


 



    Skype
    depends on key technology that is licensed from third
    parties.


 


    Skype licenses technology underlying certain key components of
    its software from third parties it does not control, including
    the technology underlying its peer-to-peer architecture and
    firewall traversal technology, and the video
    compression/decompression used to provide high video quality.
    Although Skype has contracts in place with its third party
    technology providers, there can be no assurance that the
    licensed technology or other technology that we may seek to
    license in the future will continue to be available on
    commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of, or
    inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in a
    decrease in service quality or loss of service until equivalent
    technology or suitable alternatives can be developed,
    identified, licensed and integrated. While we believe Skype has
    the ability to either extend these licenses on commercially
    reasonable terms or identify and obtain or develop suitable
    alternative products, the costs associated with licensing or
    developing such products could be high. Any failure to maintain
    these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or license or
    develop alternative technologies would harm Skype’s
    business.


 



    Our
    businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the
    Internet. Internet service providers may be able to block,
    degrade, or charge us or our users additional fees for our
    offerings.


 


    Our customers rely on access to the Internet to use our products
    and services. In many cases that access is provided by companies
    that compete with at least some of our offerings, including
    incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile
    communications companies, and large Internet service providers.
    Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures
    that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of
    customers’ use of our offerings by restricting or
    prohibiting the use of their lines for our offerings, by
    filtering, blocking, delaying, or degrading the packets
    containing the data associated with our products, or by charging
    increased fees to us or our



    
    31



Table of Contents




    users for use of their lines to provide our offerings. Some of
    these providers have contractually restricted their
    customers’ access to VoIP offerings (which would include
    Skype) through their terms of service with their customers.
    These activities are technically feasible and may be permitted
    by applicable law. In addition, Internet service providers could
    attempt to charge us each time our customers use our offerings.
    Worldwide, a number of companies have announced plans to take
    such actions or are selling products designed to facilitate such
    actions. Interference with our offerings or higher charges for
    access to our offerings, whether paid by us or by our customers,
    could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to
    attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth.


 



    Our
    tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive, and
    other risks that could harm this business.


 


    Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is
    subject to numerous risks. Many jurisdictions have laws and
    regulations covering the resale of event tickets, and some
    jurisdictions prohibit the resale of event tickets at prices
    above the face value of the tickets. In addition, new laws and
    regulations may be passed that would limit our or our
    users’ ability to continue this business. Regulatory
    agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for
    ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations
    or that we or our users are either subject to licensure or
    prohibited from reselling event tickets in their jurisdictions.


 


    Some event organizers and professional sports teams have
    expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our
    sites. In November 2006, the New England Patriots filed suit
    against StubHub alleging that StubHub’s resale activities
    violate Massachusetts’ ticket resale laws and constitute
    intentional interference with the team’s relationship with
    its season ticket holders. In April 2007, Ticketmaster filed
    suit against eBay d/b/a StubHub alleging that StubHub had
    improperly interfered with Ticketmaster’s contracts with
    its clients by wrongfully obtaining tickets for sale in
    violation of Ticketmaster’s exclusive contractual rights to
    sell such tickets. Such litigation could result in damage
    awards, could require us to change our business practices in
    harmful ways, or could otherwise negatively affect our tickets
    business. Our tickets business is also subject to seasonal
    fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions
    that impact the sporting events and live entertainment
    industries. Our tickets business also faces significant
    competition from a number of sources, including ticketing
    service companies (such as TicketMaster and Tickets.com), event
    organizers (such as professional sports teams and leagues),
    ticket brokers, and other online and offline ticket resellers,
    such as TicketsNow (which has entered into an agreement to be
    acquired by TicketMaster) and RazorGator. If we are unable to
    effectively compete with these competitors, our tickets business
    could be harmed.


 



    We
    depend on key personnel.


 


    Our future performance depends substantially on the continued
    services of our senior management and other key personnel and
    our ability to retain and motivate them. In January 2008, we
    announced that Meg Whitman will be resigning as our president
    and chief executive officer effective March 31, 2008, and
    that John Donahoe has been named by our board of directors to
    succeed Ms. Whitman as our president and chief executive
    officer upon Ms. Whitman’s resignation, as well as
    other significant changes in our executive management. These
    changes may result in increased attrition of our personnel as
    new reporting relationships are established and as other
    companies may increasingly target our executives. We do not have
    long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel,
    we do not maintain any “key person” life insurance
    policies, and many members of our senior management team have
    fully vested the vast majority of their in-the-money equity
    incentives. The loss of the services of any of our executive
    officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our new
    businesses all depend on attracting and retaining key personnel.
    Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract,
    train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial,
    marketing, and customer support personnel. Competition for these
    personnel is intense, and we may be unable to successfully
    attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel.
    In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and
    high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the
    value of the equity awards they are to receive in connection
    with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make
    it more difficult to retain and motivate employees whose stock
    option strike prices are substantially above current market
    prices. Similarly, decreases in the number of unvested
    in-the-money stock options held by existing employees, whether
    because our stock price has declined, options have vested,



    
    32



Table of Contents




    or because the size of follow-on option grants has declined, may
    make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees.


 



    Problems
    with or price increases by third parties who provide services to
    us or to our users could harm our business.


 


    A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that
    benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and
    manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and
    interface with inventory management software, storefronts that
    help our users list items, caching services that make our sites
    load faster, and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on
    our platform, among others. In some cases we have contractual
    agreements with these companies that give us a direct financial
    interest in their success, while in other cases we have none.
    PayPal is dependent on the processing companies and banks that
    link PayPal to the credit card and bank clearing networks.
    Financial, regulatory, or other problems that prevent these
    companies from providing services to us or our users could
    reduce the number of listings on our websites or make completing
    transactions or payments on our websites more difficult, and
    thereby harm our business. Price increases by companies that
    provide services to our users could also reduce the number of
    listings on our websites or make it more difficult for our users
    to complete transactions, thereby harming our business. For
    example, we believe recent changes in postal rates that affected
    certain lower-weight packages and mailings between the
    U.S. and Canada may have reduced listing volume on our
    sites in certain categories. Any security breach at one of these
    companies could also affect our customers and harm our business.
    In addition, we have outsourced certain functions to third-party
    outside providers, including customer support and product
    development functions, which are critical to our operations. If
    our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our
    operations could be disrupted, which could result in user
    dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business, reputation
    and operating results. Although we generally have been able to
    renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with third
    parties who provide services to us on acceptable terms, there
    can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in
    the future, and there can be no assurance that third parties who
    provide services directly to our users will continue to do so at
    reasonable rates or at all.


 



    Customer
    complaints or negative publicity about our customer support or
    anti-fraud measures could diminish use of our
    services.


 


    Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer
    support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use
    of our services. Measures we sometimes take to combat risks of
    fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to
    damage relations with our customers or decrease activity on our
    sites by making our sites more difficult to use or restricting
    the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the
    need for prompt and accurate customer support to resolve
    irregularities and disputes. Effective customer support requires
    significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed
    properly, could significantly impact our profitability. Failure
    to manage or train our customer support representatives properly
    could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints
    effectively. If we do not handle customer complaints
    effectively, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our
    customers’ confidence.


 


    Because it is providing a financial service and operating in a
    more regulated environment, PayPal, unlike eBay, must provide
    telephone as well as email customer support and must resolve
    certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of
    PayPal’s program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money
    laundering, it may temporarily restrict the ability of customers
    to withdraw their funds if those funds or the customer’s
    account activity are identified by PayPal’s risk models as
    suspicious. PayPal has in the past received negative publicity
    with respect to its customer support and account restrictions,
    and has been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and
    state attorney general inquiries alleging, among other things,
    failure to resolve account restrictions promptly. If PayPal is
    unable to provide quality customer support operations in a
    cost-effective manner, PayPal’s users may have negative
    experiences, PayPal may receive additional negative publicity,
    its ability to attract new customers may be damaged, and it
    could become subject to additional litigation. As a result,
    current and future revenues could suffer, and its operating
    margins may decrease. In addition, negative publicity about or
    experiences with customer support for Marketplaces, PayPal or
    Skype could cause eBay’s reputation to suffer or affect
    consumer confidence in the eBay brands as a whole.



    
    33



Table of Contents





    Our
    industry is intensely competitive, and other companies or
    governmental agencies may allege that our behavior is
    anti-competitive.


 



    Marketplaces


 


    Marketplaces businesses currently or potentially compete with a
    number of companies providing both particular categories of
    goods and broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new,
    rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale
    of all types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the
    future. The barriers to entry into these channels are relatively
    low and current offline and new competitors can easily launch
    online sites at a nominal cost using commercially available
    software or partnering with any one of a number of successful
    ecommerce companies.


 


    Our broad-based competitors include the vast majority of
    traditional department, warehouse, discount, and general
    merchandise stores (as well as the online operations of these
    traditional retailers), emerging online retailers, online
    classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline
    and online home shopping networks. These include most
    prominently: Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC Penney,
    Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club,
    Amazon.com, Buy.com, AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC, and
    Home Shopping Network.


 


    A number of companies offer a variety of services that provide
    channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all
    sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites
    such as craigslist (in which we own a minority equity stake),
    Google Base, Microsoft Live Expo, and Oodle.com. Our Kijiji
    websites offers classifieds listings in a variety of local
    international markets, and in July 2007, Kijiji launched local
    classifieds websites in the U.S. In many markets in which
    it operates, including in the U.S., our classified platforms
    compete against more established online and offline classifieds
    platforms.


 


    In 2005, we acquired Shopping.com Ltd., an online shopping
    comparison site. Shopping.com competes with sites such as
    Buy.com, Google’s Product Search, Nextag.com,
    Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, and Yahoo! Product Search, which
    offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the
    Internet for specified products. Recent legal developments may
    affect the utility of shopping comparison sites if manufacturers
    begin requiring more uniformity in product pricing. In addition,
    sellers are increasingly acquiring new customers by paying for
    search-related advertisements on search engine sites such as
    Google and Yahoo!. We use product search engines and paid search
    advertising to channel users to our sites, but these services
    also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping
    destinations.


 


    We also compete with many local, regional, and national
    specialty retailers and exchanges in each of the major
    categories of products offered on our websites. For example,
    category-specific competitors to offerings in our Computers,
    Consumer Electronics, and Cameras & Photo categories
    include Abt Electronics, Amazon.com, Apple, Best Buy, Buy.com,
    Circuit City, CNET, CompUSA, Computer Discount Warehouse, Dell,
    Electronics Boutique, Fry’s Electronics, Gamestop, Gateway,
    Hewlett Packard, Lenovo, MicroWarehouse, Overstock.com,
    PC Connection, PCMall.com, Radio Shack, Ritz Camera, Tech
    Depot, Tiger Direct, Tweeter Home Entertainment, uBid, major
    wireless carriers, and computer, consumer electronics, and
    photography retailers


 


    Our international Marketplaces websites compete with similar
    online and offline channels in each of their vertical categories
    in most countries. In addition, they compete with general online
    ecommerce sites, such as Quelle and Otto in Germany, Yahoo-Kimo
    in Taiwan, Daum and Gmarket in South Korea, OZtion and Aussie
    Bidder in Australia, and Amazon in the United Kingdom and other
    countries. In some of these countries, there are online sites
    that have much larger customer bases and greater brand
    recognition than we do, and in certain of these jurisdictions
    there are competitors that may have a better understanding of
    local culture and commerce than we do.


 


    The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers;




 



     
        • 

    
    volume of transactions and price and selection of goods;




 



     
        • 

    
    customer service; and




 



     
        • 

    
    brand recognition.






    
    34



Table of Contents



 


    With respect to our online competition, additional competitive
    factors include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    community cohesion, interaction and size;




 



     
        • 

    
    website ease-of-use and accessibility;




 



     
        • 

    
    system reliability;




 



     
        • 

    
    reliability of delivery and payment;




 



     
        • 

    
    level of service fees; and




 



     
        • 

    
    quality of search tools.





 


    Some current and potential competitors have longer operating
    histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition
    in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other online
    trading services may be acquired by, receive investments from,
    or enter into other commercial relationships with
    well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some
    of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to
    devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns,
    adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially
    more resources to website and systems development than we can.
    Some of our competitors have offered services for free and
    others may do this as well. We may be unable to compete
    successfully against current and future competitors. In
    addition, certain offline competitors may encourage
    manufacturers to limit or cease distribution of their products
    to dealers who sell through online channels such as eBay, or may
    attempt to use existing or future government regulation to
    prohibit or limit online commerce in certain categories of goods
    or services. The adoption by manufacturers or government
    authorities of policies or regulations discouraging the sales of
    goods or services over the Internet could force eBay users to
    stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased
    competition or anti-Internet distribution policies or
    regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of
    market share and diminished value of our brand.


 


    Conversely, other companies and government agencies have in the
    past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the
    antitrust or competition laws of the U.S. or other
    countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Such
    claims, even if without foundation, typically are very expensive
    to defend, involve negative publicity and diversion of
    management time and effort, and could result in significant
    judgments against us.


 


    In order to respond to changes in the competitive environment,
    we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing
    decisions or acquisitions that could harm our profitability. In
    January 2008, we announced significant changes to our
    Marketplaces business in three major areas: fee structure,
    seller incentives and standards, and feedback While these
    changes are intended to improve our users’ buying
    experience and increase activity on our sites, certain users may
    be negatively affected by or react negatively to these changes,
    which could harm our operating results and profitability. In
    addition, certain competitors may offer or continue to offer
    free shipping or other transaction related services, which could
    be impractical or inefficient for eBay sellers to match. New
    technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling
    our competitors to offer a lower cost service.


 


    Although we have established Internet traffic arrangements with
    several large online services and search engine companies, these
    arrangements may not be renewed on commercially reasonable terms
    or these companies may decide to promote competitive services.
    Even if these arrangements are renewed, they may not result in
    increased usage of our services. In addition, companies that
    control user access to transactions through network access,
    Internet browsers, or search engines, could promote our
    competitors, channel current or potential users to their
    vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their
    advertisers’ sites, attempt to restrict our access, or
    charge us substantial fees for inclusion. Search engines may
    increasingly become a starting point for online shopping, and as
    the costs of operating an online store decline, online sellers
    may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels, which
    could reduce the number and value of transactions these sellers
    conduct through our sites.



    
    35



Table of Contents





    PayPal


 


    The market for PayPal’s product is emerging, intensely
    competitive, and characterized by rapid technological change.
    PayPal competes with existing online and offline payment
    methods, including, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    credit card merchant processors that offer their services to
    online merchants, including American Express, Cardservice
    International, Chase Paymentech, First Data, and Wells Fargo;
    and payment gateways, including CyberSource and Authorize.net
    (which has merged with CyberSource);




 



     
        • 

    
    money remitters such as MoneyGram and Western Union;




 



     
        • 

    
    bill payment services, including CheckFree;




 



     
        • 

    
    processors that provide online merchants the ability to offer
    their customers the option of paying for purchases from their
    bank account, including Certegy, PayByTouch and TeleCheck, a
    subsidiary of First Data, or to pay on credit, including Bill Me
    Later;




 



     
        • 

    
    providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit
    cards, checks, money orders, and Automated Clearing House
    transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including
    VisaBuxx, NetSpend and GreenDot (formerly known as Next Estate);




 



     
        • 

    
    Amazon Payments, which acts as a credit processor and can be
    linked to a personal bank account; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Google Checkout, which enables the online payment of merchants
    using credit cards.





 


    Some of these competitors have longer operating histories,
    significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer
    service and other resources, greater name recognition, or a
    larger base of customers in affiliated businesses than PayPal.
    PayPal’s competitors may respond to new or emerging
    technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and
    more effectively than PayPal. Some of these competitors may also
    be subject to lesser licensing, anti-money laundering, and other
    regulatory requirements than PayPal, which is subject to
    additional regulations based on its licensure as a bank in
    Luxembourg. They may devote greater resources to the
    development, promotion, and sale of products and services than
    PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example, Google
    Checkout extended its free payment processing promotion through
    February 1, 2008, and currently offers free payments
    processing on transactions in an amount proportionate to certain
    advertising spending with Google. Competing services tied to
    established banks and other financial institutions may offer
    greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence in
    the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal.


 


    Overseas, PayPal faces competition from similar channels and
    payment methods. In each country, numerous banks provide
    standard online credit card acquiring and processing services,
    and these banks typically have leading market share. In
    addition, PayPal faces competition from Visa’s Visa Direct,
    MasterCard’s MoneySend, Royal Bank of Scotland’s World
    Pay and ClickandBuy in the EU, NOCHEX, Moneybookers, NETeller
    and FirePay in the United Kingdom, CertaPay and HyperWallet in
    Canada, Paymate and BPay in Australia, Alipay, YeePay, and
    99Bill in China and Inicis in South Korea. In addition, in
    certain countries, such as Germany and Australia, electronic
    funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online
    and offline transactions. As in the U.S., established banks and
    other financial institutions that do not currently offer online
    payments could quickly and easily develop such a service.


 


    Some of PayPal’s competitors, such as Wells Fargo, First
    Data, American Express, and Royal Bank of Scotland, also provide
    processing or foreign exchange services to PayPal. If PayPal
    were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers,
    either alone or through a commercial alliance or an acquisition,
    these processing and foreign exchange relationships could be
    negatively affected, or these competitors and other processors
    could make it more difficult for PayPal to deliver its services.


 



    Skype


 


    The market for Skype’s products is also emerging, intensely
    competitive, and characterized by rapid technological change.
    Many traditional telecommunications carriers, Internet
    companies, and cable providers



    
    36



Table of Contents




    offer, or have indicated that they plan to offer, VoIP products
    or services that compete with the software Skype provides.
    Microsoft recently announced the expansion of its Office
    communications suite to include VoIP. We expect competitors to
    continue to improve the performance of their current products
    and introduce new products, software, services, and
    technologies. If Skype’s competitors successfully introduce
    new products or enhance their existing products, this could
    reduce the market for Skype’s products, increase price
    competition, or make Skype’s products obsolete, which could
    lower Skype’s adoption rates, decrease its ability to
    attract new users or cause its current users to migrate to a
    competing company. In addition, some of Skype’s
    competitors, such as telecommunications carriers and cable
    television providers, are bundling services and products that
    Skype does not offer. These include various forms of wireless
    communications, voice and data services, Internet access, and
    cable television. This form of bundling may put Skype at a
    competitive disadvantage if these providers can combine a
    variety of service offerings at a single attractive price.
    Furthermore, competitors may choose to make their services
    interoperable with one another, rather than proprietary, which
    could increase the attractiveness of their services relative to
    Skype and decrease the value of Skype’s network of users.


 


    Many of Skype’s current and potential competitors have
    longer operating histories, are substantially larger, and have
    greater financial, marketing, technical, and other resources.
    Some also have greater name recognition and a larger installed
    base of customers than Skype has. As a result of their greater
    resources, many current and potential competitors may be able to
    lower their prices substantially, thereby eroding some or all of
    Skype’s cost advantage.


 



    Our
    business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our
    users to spend less time on our websites, including seasonal
    factors, national events and increased usage of other
    websites.


 


    Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of
    usage of our websites could adversely affect our business. We
    would therefore be adversely affected by geopolitical events
    such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and
    natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Similarly,
    our results of operations historically have been seasonal
    because many of our users reduce their activities on our
    websites with the onset of good weather during the summer
    months, and on and around national holidays. In addition,
    increased usage of social networking or other entertainment
    websites may decrease the amount of time users spend on our
    websites, which could adversely affect our financial results.


 



    Our
    failure to manage growth could harm our business.


 


    We have expanded our headcount, facilities, and infrastructure
    in the U.S. and internationally, and anticipate that
    further expansion will be required as we continue to expand into
    new lines of business and geographic areas. This expansion has
    placed, and we expect it will continue to place, a significant
    strain on our management, operational, and financial resources.
    The areas that are put under strain by our growth include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Website Usability.  User activity rates on our
    websites depend in part on the quality of our users’
    experiences on those sites. The rapid growth in the number and
    complexity of products and features on our sites has
    occasionally caused users to become confused or overwhelmed or
    has otherwise impaired users’ experiences on those sites.
    We are in the process of making numerous improvements to our
    eBay websites, including an attempt to improve the user
    experience on those websites. These attempts at improvement
    could fail, or could decrease activity among users who had grown
    used to or preferred the existing experience on our sites. Any
    impairment of customer satisfaction as a result of site
    usability issues could lead to a loss of customers or impair our
    ability to add customers, either of which would harm our
    business.




 



     
        • 

    
    Website Stability.  We must constantly add new
    hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to
    accommodate the increased use of our and our subsidiaries’
    websites and the new products and features we regularly
    introduce. This upgrade process is expensive, and the increased
    complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple
    platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of
    additional enhancements. Failure to upgrade our technology,
    features, transaction processing systems, security
    infrastructure, or network infrastructure to accommodate
    increased traffic or transaction volume could harm our business.
    Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system
    disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of
    customer support, impaired quality of users’ experiences of
    our






    
    37



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    services, impaired quality of services for third-party
    application developers using our externally accessible
    Application Programming Interface, or API, and delays in
    reporting accurate financial information. We may be unable to
    effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or
    smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies
    or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do
    so could result in problems on our sites. For example, in
    October 2004, we experienced unscheduled downtime on the PayPal
    website over a period of five days related to system upgrades,
    and in the second quarter of 2007, PayPal experienced an
    interruption during which many of PayPal’s services were
    unavailable for approximately four hours. In August 2007, Skype
    experienced an interruption to its services during which the
    majority of Skype’s users were unable to use its products
    for approximately two days. Despite our efforts to increase site
    scalability and reliability, our infrastructure could prove
    unable to handle a larger volume of customer transactions. Some
    of our more recently acquired businesses may be particularly
    subject to this risk given their shorter histories and, in some
    cases, higher growth rates. Any failure to accommodate
    transaction growth could impair customer satisfaction, lead to a
    loss of customers, impair our ability to add customers, or
    increase our costs, all of which would harm our business.
    Further, steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our
    systems are expensive, reduce our margins, and may not be
    successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled
    downtime.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Customer Account Billing.  Our revenues depend
    on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow
    our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the
    increasing number of transactions that must be billed on any of
    our websites would harm our business and our ability to collect
    revenue.




 



     
        • 

    
    Customer Support.  We are expanding our
    customer support operations to accommodate the increased number
    of users and transactions on our websites and the increased
    level of user protection activity we provide worldwide. If we
    are unable to provide these operations in a cost-effective
    manner, users of our websites may have negative experiences,
    current and future revenues could suffer, and our operating
    margins may decrease.





 


    We must continue to effectively hire, train, and manage new
    employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are
    unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating
    these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining
    our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage
    the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will
    need to improve our transaction processing, operational and
    financial systems, procedures, and controls. This is a special
    challenge as we acquire new operations with different systems.
    Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and
    controls may not be adequate to support our future operations.
    The additional headcount and capital investments we are adding
    will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult
    for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by expense
    reductions in the short term.


 



    We may
    have exposure to greater than anticipated tax
    liabilities.


 


    The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes
    and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant
    judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where
    the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our determination
    of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable
    domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of
    such a review could have a negative effect on our operating
    results and financial condition. Although we believe our
    estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ
    from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may
    materially affect our financial results in the period or periods
    for which such determination is made.


 



    We
    depend on the continued growth of online commerce and
    communications.


 


    The business of selling goods over the Internet, particularly
    through online trading, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns
    about fraud, privacy, and other problems may discourage
    additional consumers from adopting the Internet as a medium of
    commerce. In countries such as the U.S. and Germany, where
    our services and online commerce generally have been available
    for some time and the level of market penetration of our
    services is high, acquiring new users for our services may be
    more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. In order
    to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers
    who historically have used traditional means of commerce to
    purchase goods and may prefer Internet analogs to such
    traditional retail means to our offerings, such as the



    
    38



Table of Contents




    retailer’s own website. If these consumers prove to be less
    active than our earlier users, and we are unable to gain
    efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of
    acquiring new customers, our business could be adversely
    impacted.


 



    Our
    business depends on the development and maintenance of the
    Internet infrastructure.


 


    The success of our services will depend largely on the
    development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This
    includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the
    necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely
    development of complementary products, for providing reliable
    Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and
    is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the
    numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet
    infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In
    addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth
    requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,”
    “worms,” and similar programs may harm the performance
    of the Internet. The backbone computers of the Internet have
    been the targets of such programs. The Internet has experienced
    a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to
    portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and
    delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the
    level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage
    of our services.


 



    We may
    be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property
    rights adequately.


 


    We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, patents,
    domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets as critical to our
    success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property
    rights by relying on a federal, state and common law rights, as
    well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on
    contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in
    products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and
    invention assignment agreements with our employees and
    contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with
    whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and
    disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual
    arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our
    intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our
    technology or deter independent development of similar
    technologies by others. We pursue the registration of our domain
    names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and
    internationally. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain
    name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is very expensive
    to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our
    trademarks, patents, and domain names in an increasing number of
    jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be
    successful in every location. For example, Skype is in the
    process of applying to register the Skype name as a trademark
    worldwide. In the EU, Skype’s application is being opposed.
    If these oppositions to Skype’s applications were to be
    successful, Skype’s ability to protect its brand against
    third-party infringers would be compromised. We have licensed in
    the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our
    proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material,
    to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the
    value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation.


 



    We are
    subject to the risks of owning real property.


 


    We own real property, including land and buildings related to
    our operations. We have little experience in managing real
    property. Ownership of this property subjects us to risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs
    associated with fixing any environmental problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to
    interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhoods in which the
    properties are located, or other factors;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply
    with zoning, seismic, disability act, or other
    requirements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    possible disputes with tenants, neighboring owners, or others.





 



    Some
    anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common
    stock.


 


    Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to
    10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the
    preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any
    further vote or action by the stockholders. The



    
    39



Table of Contents




    rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights
    granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued
    in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of
    incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more
    difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our
    outstanding voting stock. These include provisions that provide
    for a classified board of directors, prohibit stockholders from
    taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of
    stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to
    provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any
    business combination with any interested stockholder for a
    period of three years from the date the person became an
    interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This
    restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a
    change of control.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B