Item 1A:
    Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    as well as our consolidated financial statements, related notes,
    and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this
    report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, or the SEC. We do not intend, and undertake no
    obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements
    after the date of this report to reflect actual results or
    future events or circumstances. Given these risks and
    uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance
    on such forward-looking statements.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1:  

    
    BUSINESS





 



    Overview


 


    eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in September 1995
    and was incorporated in California in May 1996. In April 1998,
    we reincorporated in Delaware, and in September 1998, we
    completed the initial public offering of our common stock. Our
    principal executive offices are located at 2145 Hamilton Avenue,
    San Jose, California 95125, and our telephone number is
    (408) 376-7400.
    When we refer to “we,” “our” or
    “eBay” in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its
    California predecessor, as well as all of its consolidated
    subsidiaries. When we refer to “eBay.com,” we mean the
    online marketplace located at www.ebay.com and its
    localized counterparts. When we refer to “PayPal,” we
    mean the online payments platform located at www.paypal.com
    and its localized counterparts. When we refer to
    “Skype,” we mean the Voice over Internet Protocol, or
    VoIP, offerings provided by our subsidiary Skype Technologies
    S.A.


 


    Our purpose is to pioneer new communities around the world built
    on commerce, sustained by trust and inspired by opportunity. We
    provide online marketplaces for the sale of goods and services
    as well as other online commerce, or ecommerce, platforms,
    online payment solutions and online communications offerings to
    a diverse community of individuals and businesses.


 


    We operate three primary business segments: Marketplaces,
    Payments and Communications. Our Marketplaces segment provides
    the infrastructure to enable global online commerce on a variety
    of platforms, including the traditional eBay.com platform, our
    other online platforms, such as our online classifieds
    businesses, our secondary tickets marketplace (StubHub), our
    online shopping comparison website (Shopping.com), our apartment
    listing service platform (Rent.com), as well as our fixed price
    media marketplace (Half.com). Our Payments segment is comprised
    of our online payment solutions PayPal and Bill Me Later (which
    we acquired in November 2008). Our Communications segment, which
    consists of Skype, enables VoIP calls between Skype users and
    provides low-cost connectivity to traditional fixed-line and
    mobile telephones.


 


    We generate net transaction revenues from all three of our
    business segments. Our net transaction revenues from our
    Marketplaces segment are derived primarily from listing and
    final value fees paid by sellers. For our Payments segment, net
    transaction revenues are generated primarily by fees paid by
    merchants for payment processing services. Our Communications
    segment net transaction revenues are generated primarily from
    fees charged to users to connect Skype’s VoIP product to
    traditional fixed-line and mobile telephones. These fees are
    charged on a per-minute basis or on a subscription basis and we
    refer to these minutes as SkypeOut minutes.


 


    We generate marketing services and other revenues from all three
    of our business segments. Our marketing services are derived
    principally from the sale of advertisements, revenue sharing
    arrangements, classifieds fees, lead referral fees. Other
    revenues are derived principally from interest earned from banks
    on certain PayPal



    
    1



Table of Contents




    customer account balances, interest and fees earned on the Bill
    Me Later loan portfolio and from contractual arrangements with
    third parties that provide services to all of our users.


 



    Marketplaces


 


    Our Marketplaces segment is comprised of online commerce
    platforms that enable a global community of buyers and sellers
    to interact and trade with one another. Our goal is to create,
    maintain and expand the functionality, safety, ease-of-use and
    reliability of our online commerce platforms while supporting
    the growth and success of our community of users.


 



    Marketplaces
    Value Proposition


 


    We seek to attract buyers and sellers to our community by
    offering:


 




     	
     	
     	





    Buyers



 



    Sellers




 





    •   Selection



 



    •   Access to broad global markets






    •   Value



 



    •   Efficient marketing and distribution
    costs






    •   Trust



 



    •   Opportunity to increase sales






    •   Convenience



 


 









 


    We believe our Marketplaces platforms make inefficient markets
    more efficient because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our global community of users can more easily and inexpensively
    communicate, exchange information and complete transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our Marketplaces platforms include more than 140.0 million
    listings on any given day and make available to our users a wide
    variety and selection of goods; and




 



     
        • 

    
    We bring buyers and sellers together in a more cost-effective
    manner than traditional intermediaries and available
    alternatives.





 


    We seek to create a global platform that provides individuals
    and businesses of all types and sizes with access to broad
    markets. We have aggregated a significant number of buyers,
    sellers and items listed for sale, which, in turn, has resulted
    in a vibrant online commerce environment. Our sellers generally
    enjoy good conversion rates selling goods on our Marketplaces
    platforms and our buyers enjoy an extensive selection of goods
    and services. Key components of our community philosophy are
    maintaining honest and open marketplaces and treating individual
    users with respect. We seek to maintain the satisfaction and
    loyalty of our buyers and sellers by offering a variety of
    community and support features, such as announcement and
    bulletin boards, customer support boards and personal pages, as
    well as other topical and category-specific information
    exchanges.


 


    Generally speaking, our Marketplaces platforms are more
    effective, relative to available alternatives, at addressing
    markets of scarce new goods, new items that are no longer
    in-season, end-of-life products and used and vintage items. Our
    highest growth in recent periods, however, has been in our
    fixed-price listing format, primarily for new no longer
    in-season items.


 


    Our historical success has resulted largely from the size of our
    community of active users. We had approximately
    86.3 million active users at the end of 2008, compared to
    approximately 83.2 million at the end of 2007. We define an
    active user as any user who bid on, bought or listed an item
    during the preceding
    12-month
    period.


 



    Marketplaces
    Platforms Overview


 


    Our Marketplaces platforms seek to bring buyers and sellers
    together through fully automated and easy-to-use online websites
    that are generally available throughout the world at any time.
    The platforms include software tools and services, some
    available at no charge and others for a fee, that allow buyers
    and sellers to trade with one another more easily and
    efficiently. The Marketplaces platforms consist of our core
    online commerce platform, eBay.com and its localized
    counterparts, and adjacent platforms consisting of our
    classifieds websites, as well as StubHub, Shopping.com,
    Half.com, and Rent.com. Our Marketplaces platforms earn revenue
    from, as the case may be,



    
    2



Table of Contents




    listing, feature, subscription and final value fees paid by
    sellers, lead referral fees, transaction fees and advertising
    fees.


 



    eBay.com
    Platform


 


    Our Marketplaces core platform, eBay.com, includes our
    traditional auction-style format and fixed-price format and has
    a global presence in 39 markets. In 2008, our auction-style
    listing format accounted for approximately 55% of our gross
    merchandise volume, or GMV, which is the total value of all
    successfully closed items between users on our Marketplaces
    trading platform websites during the period, regardless of
    whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the
    transaction (excluding Rent.com, Shopping.com and our classified
    websites). Our fixed-price listing format accounted for the
    remaining 45% of our GMV in 2008.


 



    Auction-Style
    Listing Format


 


    Our traditional auction-style format allows a seller to select a
    minimum price for opening bids, with the option to set a reserve
    price for the item, which is the minimum price at which the
    seller is willing to sell the item. A seller with appropriate
    feedback ratings can also sell in a “Multiple
    Item Auction” format, which allows a seller to sell
    multiple identical items to the highest bidders.


 



    Fixed-Price
    Listing Format


 


    Our fixed-price format allows buyers and sellers to accelerate
    the transaction process rather than waiting for the auction
    period to expire. Sellers with appropriate feedback ratings are
    allowed to name a price at the time the item is listed at which
    they would be willing to sell the item to a buyer. Our Half.com
    subsidiary also provides a fixed-price, person-to-person online
    commerce platform that allows people to buy and sell new and
    previously owned books, movies, music and games at discounted
    prices.


 


    In addition, eBay Stores enables sellers to exhibit all of their
    listings in one place on our eBay platform and to describe their
    respective businesses through customized pages. eBay Stores
    provides sellers with useful tools to build, manage, promote and
    track their businesses. “Store Inventory Format”
    listings allow sellers to list items for a minimum
    30-day
    listing period at a lower insertion fee and higher final value
    fee than regular auction-style and fixed-price listings. As of
    December 31, 2008, there were approximately 516,000 online
    storefronts established by users in locations around the world.


 



    Key
    Services for Buyers and Sellers


 


    We have developed a number of features on our platforms in the
    areas of Trust and Safety (including our Feedback Forum, Safe
    Harbor Program and Verified Rights Owner Program), Customer
    Support and Value-Added Tools and Services, as well as Loyalty
    Programs (such as PowerSeller, top buyer and coupons and buyer
    rewards). These features are designed to make users more
    comfortable dealing with unknown trading partners and completing
    commercial transactions on the Internet.


 


    Feedback Forum:  Our Feedback Forum encourages
    users to provide feedback ratings and comments on other users
    with whom they trade. Users’ profiles, which include these
    feedback ratings and comments, can be viewed by any of our other
    users. Every registered user has a feedback profile that may
    contain compliments, criticisms
    and/or other
    comments by users who have conducted business with that user.
    The Feedback Forum requires feedback to be related to specific
    transactions and provides an easy tool for users to match
    specific transactions with the user names of their trading
    partners. This information is recorded in a profile that
    includes a feedback rating for the user, with feedback sorted
    according to whether the feedback has been provided over the
    past month, six months or twelve months. Users who develop
    positive reputations have color-coded star symbols displayed
    next to their user names to indicate the number of positive
    feedback ratings they have received. In addition to leaving an
    overall feedback rating (positive, neutral or negative) for a
    seller, buyers also can leave anonymous Detailed Seller Ratings
    (“DSR”) that cannot be viewed by the seller in four
    areas: item as described, communication, shipping time and
    shipping and handling charges. The Feedback Forum has several
    automated features designed to detect and prevent certain forms
    of abuse, such as a user leaving positive feedback about himself
    or herself through multiple accounts. As a



    
    3



Table of Contents




    customer-focused company, we no longer allow sellers to leave
    negative feedback for buyers and provide sellers with additional
    tools designed to avoid negative feedback.


 


    SafeHarbor Program:  We also offer the
    SafeHarbor program, which provides guidelines for trading and
    user dispute resolution. Our SafeHarbor staff investigates
    users’ complaints of possible misuse of eBay platforms and
    takes appropriate action, including issuing warnings to users,
    ending and removing listings, or suspending users from bidding
    on or listing items for sale.


 


    Verified Rights Owner (VeRO) Program:  The VeRO
    Program lets intellectual property rights owners request the
    removal of listings that offer items or contain materials that
    infringe on their rights. This helps to protect community
    members from purchasing items that may be counterfeit or
    otherwise unauthorized.


 


    Customer Support:  We devote significant
    resources to providing personalized, accurate and timely support
    services to our community of users. Buyers and sellers can
    contact us through a variety of means, including email, online
    text chat and, in certain circumstances, telephone. We continue
    to focus our resources on improving our accessibility,
    increasing our capacity, expanding our category-specific
    support, extending our online self-help features and improving
    our systems and processes to allow us to provide efficient and
    effective support. In addition, top eBay sellers who qualify for
    our PowerSeller program receive prioritized customer support.


 


    Value-Added Tools and Services:  eBay users
    have access to a variety of “pre-trade” and
    “post-trade” tools and services to enhance their user
    experience and to make trading faster, easier and safer for
    them. “Pre-trade” tools and services are intended to
    simplify the listing process. “Post-trade” tools and
    services are designed to make transactions easier and more
    convenient to complete. These tools and services may not be
    available in all international markets.


 


    These tools and services include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Turbo Lister, eBay Blackthorne, ProStores, Selling Manager and
    Selling Manager Pro, each of which helps to automate the selling
    process;




 



     
        • 

    
    Shipping Calculator, which makes it easier for buyers and
    sellers to calculate shipping costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Shipping Labels, which allows sellers to print certain postage
    and UPS labels;




 



     
        • 

    
    eBay To Go, which allows users to embed item listings in their
    own Internet websites; and




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal, which facilitates the online exchange of funds.





 


    We currently provide these services directly or through
    contractual arrangements with third parties.


 


    PowerSeller program:  PowerSellers are
    eBay’s top sellers who have consistently sustained a high
    volume of monthly sales and who have a high level of positive
    feedback. Members of the PowerSeller program get a range of
    special benefits, including pricing discounts, prioritized
    customer support, promotional offers, eBay promotional
    merchandise, advanced selling education, opportunities to
    participate in research and other special rewards. The
    PowerSeller program is free of charge and a special PowerSeller
    icon is located next to the seller’s user name if the
    seller qualifies for the program.


 


    Top buyer program:  Our top buyers benefit from
    having a special phone number to call if they have an
    unsatisfactory user experience in connection with a transaction
    on our websites. From time to time, we also offer special coupon
    initiatives to top buyers.


 


     Coupons and Buyer Rewards:  Coupons were given
    to targeted buyers throughout 2008 to drive our GMV growth. We
    introduced, on a limited basis, a buyer rewards program to
    incentivize our larger buyers to remain loyal by offering cash
    back through “eBay bucks.”


 


    Best Match:  Buyers on eBay.com now see
    “best match” as the default search result. The best
    match algorithm determines which listings appear at the top of
    searches based on, among other factors, relevance, detailed
    seller ratings and shipping and handling charges. “Best
    Match” is designed to enable buyers to find the items they
    are looking for more quickly and easily, incentivize sellers to
    provide better deals, reasonable or free shipping and



    
    4



Table of Contents




    excellent customer service, and reduce negative buying
    experiences from sellers with high rates of buyer
    dissatisfaction.


 



    Other
    Marketplaces Platforms and Services


 



    StubHub


 


    StubHub is a leading U.S. ticket marketplace that enables
    fans to buy and sell tickets to a large selection of sporting,
    concert, theater and other live entertainment events. StubHub
    provides a marketplace dedicated solely to tickets and is
    designed to enable users to buy or sell their tickets in a
    secure, convenient and highly reliable environment. Buyers and
    sellers pay transaction fees to StubHub when tickets are bought
    and sold.


 



    Classifieds
    Websites


 


    Our classifieds websites are available in hundreds of cities and
    regions around the world and are designed to help people meet,
    share ideas and trade on a local level. Our classifieds websites
    include Kijiji, Den Blå Avis, Gumtree.com, LoQUo.com,
    OpusForum, Marktplaats.nl and mobile.de. In addition, we have a
    minority equity investment in craigslist, Inc., which operates
    the craigslist classifieds websites around the world. Our
    classified websites generate revenue primarily through
    advertising.


 



    Online
    Advertising and Other Services


 


    We work with strategic partners in a variety of areas, such as
    online advertising, mailing and other services, that allow us to
    extend the monetization of our platforms and user base. We work
    with strategic partners and members of our affiliate advertising
    network in a variety of areas, such as online advertising,
    mailing and other services, that allow us to extend the
    monetization of our platforms and user base. In 2008, we also
    launched our own advertising service that enables third parties
    to directly purchase text advertising promoting their eBay
    listings and eBay stores to appear on our websites.


 



    Shopping.com


 


    Shopping.com is a leading comparison shopping destination
    featuring products from thousands of merchants across the
    Internet. Shopping.com offers one of the largest product
    catalogs on the Internet — searchable by thousands of
    attributes — along with consumer product reviews
    through Epinions.com, which help users make informed buying
    decisions. Shopping.com’s revenue is earned primarily from
    retailers who pay a fee for shoppers directed to their sites by
    Shopping.com. In addition, Shopping.com is monetized through
    advertising revenues.


 



    Rent.com


 


    Rent.com is a leading U.S. listing website in the rental
    housing industry. The website is designed to bring apartment
    seekers and apartment managers together in an efficient manner.
    Landlords pay a fee to Rent.com for renters who indicate that
    they have found their apartments through Rent.com.


 



    Marketplaces
    Growth Strategy


 


    We will continue to work toward our goal of creating the
    world’s leading ecommerce franchise by investing in our
    core Marketplaces segment and continuing to build our adjacent
    Marketplaces businesses.


 


    Our growth strategy is focused on reinvesting in our customers,
    improving the buyer experience and seller economics by enhancing
    our products and services, improving Trust and Safety and
    customer support, extending our product offerings into new
    formats, categories and geographies, and experimenting with
    various pricing and buyer retention strategies. We have made
    significant changes in our three largest markets, the United
    States, Germany and the United Kingdom to improve our buyer
    experience over the course of 2008, with a series of pricing,
    shipping and other changes. The pricing changes reduced the
    upfront cost of listing fixed-price items on eBay so that fees
    are now based more on the successful sale of items. In addition,
    final value fees also have been rebalanced on a
    category-by-category
    basis. We encourage sellers to offer reasonable or free shipping
    to our buyers by



    
    5



Table of Contents




    promoting their listings through our “Best Match”
    search algorithm. We are also in the process of modifying the
    payment process to enhance speed and reliability.


 


    eBay strives to offer a wide variety of inventory ranging from
    new in-season through end-of-life products, from different types
    of sellers, in a broad variety of categories, with a favorable
    buyer experience and a choice between auctions and fixed price
    formats, all in one place. We believe that, if successful, these
    measures will increase the number of items sold on our sites.


 


    Another element of our growth strategy is to build adjacent
    Marketplaces businesses, such as our classified platforms and
    StubHub, which offer new formats and new monetization models, as
    well as opportunities for growth beyond our core businesses.


 



    Payments


 


    Our payments segment is comprised of online payment
    solutions — PayPal (which enables individuals and
    businesses to securely, easily and quickly send and receive
    payments online in approximately 190 markets worldwide) and Bill
    Me Later (which we acquired in November 2008 and which enables
    online U.S. merchants to offer, and U.S. consumers to
    obtain, transactional credit at the point of sale). Our Payments
    network builds upon the existing financial infrastructure to
    create a global, real-time payment solution.


 



    Payments
    Value Proposition


 


    We believe our payment solutions make online commerce more
    efficient compared to traditional payment alternatives such as
    checks, money orders and credit cards via merchant accounts.
    These traditional payment alternatives present various obstacles
    to the online commerce experience, including lengthy processing
    time, inconvenience and high costs. Providing a more efficient
    and effective payment alternative for users is essential to
    creating a faster, easier and safer online commerce experience.
    Our online payment solutions allow customers to send and receive
    funds securely, easily and quickly, and facilitate transactional
    credit for merchants and consumers.


 



    Payments
    Solution


 



    Buyer
    Value Proposition


 


    PayPal enables buyers to pay merchants without sharing sensitive
    financial information. To make payments, buyers need to disclose
    only their email addresses to recipients. Buyers also benefit
    from PayPal’s Buyer Protection Program, which reimburses
    buyers using PayPal with respect to most purchases made on
    eBay.com. When using Bill Me Later to obtain transactional
    credit, buyers need to provide only their name, address, birth
    date and the last four digits of their social security number.
    Many buyers wary of disclosing financial information online find
    the limited amount of information they are required to provide
    attractive. Bill Me Later also offers U.S. buyers an
    opportunity to defer payments; under some promotional
    arrangements with select merchants, interest on such payments
    can be deferred for as long as three to six months.


 



    Seller
    Value Proposition


 


    PayPal offers online merchants an
    all-in-one
    payment processing solution that is less expensive than most
    credit card merchant accounts, offers industry-leading fraud
    prevention, and enables merchants to conduct business with
    approximately 68.6 million PayPal registered active
    accounts in approximately 190 markets. Many of these active
    accounts prefer to use PayPal over other payment methods, which
    may help merchants to increase sales volume. PayPal also offers
    merchants the ability to maintain a direct relationship with
    their customers. In addition, PayPal also offers a payment
    gateway service that provides merchants who already have a
    credit card merchant account with a secure connection from their
    online store to their internet merchant account and their
    payment processing network.


 


    A merchant can generally open a PayPal account and begin
    accepting credit card payments within a few minutes. Most
    merchants are approved instantly for a PayPal account, and do
    not need to provide a personal guaranty, acquire any specialized
    hardware, prepare an application, contact a payment gateway or
    securely store customer financial information that is maintained
    by PayPal instead of the merchant. Furthermore, PayPal charges
    lower transaction fees than most U.S. merchant accounts, and
    charges no setup fees and few or no recurring monthly fees.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    The account-based nature of PayPal’s network helps us to
    detect and prevent fraud when funds enter, flow through, and
    exit the PayPal network. Sellers can also reduce the risk of
    transaction losses resulting from unauthorized credit card use
    and fraudulent chargebacks if they comply with PayPal’s
    Seller Protection Policy.


 


    U.S. merchants offering Bill Me Later provide buyers with
    various transactional credit arrangements at the point of sale,
    which may help to increase sales volume and average sales orders.


 



    PayPal
    Overview


 



    Joining
    the Network


 


    PayPal offers three types of
    accounts:  Personal, Business and Premier. A new
    account holder typically opens an account to send money for an
    eBay purchase or a purchase on another website, a payment for
    services rendered, or a payment to an individual in lieu of cash
    or check. Allowing new account holders to join the network when
    they make or receive payments encourages PayPal’s natural,
    user-driven growth. PayPal’s account
    sign-up
    process asks each new account holder to provide PayPal with his
    or her name, street address, phone number and email address. The
    account holder’s email address serves as the unique account
    identifier. PayPal also offers certain customers who sell on
    their own websites the ability to accept credit card payments
    from buyers without requiring the buyer to open a PayPal account.


 



    Payment
    Transaction Overview


 


    Buyers make payments at the PayPal website, at the eBay.com
    website, or at the websites of merchants that have integrated
    PayPal’s Website Payments or Express Checkout features. To
    make a payment at PayPal’s website, a buyer logs in to his
    or her account and enters the recipient’s email address and
    the amount of the payment. To make a payment through eBay.com or
    merchant websites, a buyer selects an item for purchase,
    confirms the payment information and enters his or her email
    address and password to authorize the payment. The buyer chooses
    whether PayPal debits the money from the buyer’s PayPal
    balance, credit card, or bank account and the payment is then
    credited to the recipient’s PayPal balance. In some bank
    account payments (which we call eCheck payments), the
    transaction is held until the funds have cleared the
    sender’s bank, which typically takes three to five business
    days. Once the payment is completed, the recipient can make
    payments to others or withdraw his or her funds at any time via
    check (in the U.S.), electronic funds transfer, a PayPal-branded
    debit card (which is only available to U.S. users), a
    prepaid card (in the U.K.), or through a credit to a
    recipient’s credit card account (in limited markets).


 


    PayPal earns revenues in several ways:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    PayPal earns transaction fees when a Business or Premier account
    receives a payment;




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal earns a foreign exchange fee when an account holder
    converts a balance from one currency to another;




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal earns fees from merchants who utilize PayPal’s Pro
    direct payment card processing services or Payflow gateway
    processing services;




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal earns fees when a user receives payments from outside the
    user’s country of residence;




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal may earn fees when a user withdraws money to certain bank
    accounts, depending on the amount of the withdrawal;




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal earns a return on certain customer balances; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Ancillary revenues are earned from a suite of financial
    products, as described below.





 


    PayPal incurs funding costs on payments at varying levels
    depending on the source of the payment. Funding costs associated
    with credit card and debit card funded payments are
    significantly higher than bank account or balance-funded
    payments. U.S. account holders who choose to maintain
    PayPal balances in U.S. dollars have the ability to sweep
    balances into the PayPal Money Market Fund. This Money Market
    Fund, which is invested in a portfolio managed by Barclays
    Global Fund Advisors, bore a current compound annual yield
    of 0.52% as of February 12, 2009.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    Verification
    of Account Holders


 


    To fund payments from their bank accounts in the U.S., account
    holders must first become verified by PayPal. The primary method
    for verification is our patented Random Deposit technique. Under
    this technique, PayPal makes two deposits ranging from 1 cent to
    99 cents to the account holder’s bank account. To verify
    ownership of the account, the account holder then enters the two
    amounts as a four-digit code at the PayPal website. In addition
    to allowing funding through bank accounts, verification also
    removes some spending limits on account holders’ accounts
    and gives them reputational advantages when transacting with
    other members of the PayPal community. Outside of the U.S.,
    similar verification processes are used for credit card accounts
    and in the limited number of countries where PayPal offers bank
    funding. In certain cases specific to local markets, bank funded
    transactions are permitted up to set limits before additional
    verification is required.


 



    Withdrawing
    Money


 


    Each account holder in the U.S. and in 64 other countries
    may withdraw money from his or her PayPal account through an
    electronic fund transfer to his or her U.S. bank account or, in
    40 of those countries, to their local bank account. In the U.S.
    and seven other countries, users can withdraw their funds by a
    mailed check. Withdrawals by electronic transfer in the U.S. may
    take three to five business days to arrive in the account
    holder’s bank account, depending on the bank, and make take
    longer in other countries. Mailed checks may take one to two
    weeks to arrive. Qualifying PayPal business users in the
    U.S. can receive a PayPal ATM/debit card, which provides
    these users with instant access to their PayPal account
    balances. ATM/debit cardholders can withdraw cash from any ATM
    connected to the Cirrus or Maestro networks and can make
    purchases at any merchant accepting MasterCard. PayPal offers
    customers the opportunity to apply for a Prepaid card in the
    U.K., which can be linked to a customer’s PayPal account to
    add or withdraw funds. In limited markets, customers can also
    access their money by generating a credit to their credit card
    account.


 



    PayPal’s
    Trust and Safety Programs


 


    We have developed a number of PayPal trust and safety programs,
    including PayPal’s Seller Protection and Buyer Protection
    Programs. These programs provide additional protection to
    certain account holders who pay or receive payment for their
    transactions through PayPal on eBay. PayPal’s Seller
    Protection Program covers sellers who follow specific shipping
    and handling practices against claims that a transaction was not
    authorized by the buyer or that the item was not received.
    PayPal’s Buyer Protection Program reimburses the buyer in
    full for qualified purchases on eBay.com at no cost if the buyer
    does not receive the item or if the item is significantly not as
    described. In some eBay localized markets, protection for buyers
    is limited to a maximum amount per transaction. In addition, our
    Risk Management and Fraud Investigation Teams focus on
    identifying and preventing fraud before it occurs, detecting
    fraud in process, mitigating loss if fraud does occur and
    delivering information to law enforcement around the world to
    better combat online fraud.


 



    Bill
    Me Later Transactional Credit


 


    Bill Me Later offers U.S. online consumers a way to obtain
    instant credit at the point of transaction. Bill Me Later is not
    a chartered financial institution, and relies on CIT Bank to
    extend credit to Bill Me Later customers with the Bill Me Later
    service. When a consumer makes a purchase using the Bill Me
    Later service, CIT Bank funds the consumer loan at the point of
    sale and advances funds to the merchant. Bill Me Later
    subsequently purchases the receivable related to the consumer
    loan extended by CIT Bank. Bill Me Later accounts are most
    commonly opened on a U.S. merchant site offering Bill Me
    Later as a payment method, but can also be opened at the Bill Me
    Later website. A buyer enters his or her birth date and the last
    four digits of his or her social security number and, if
    approved, Bill Me Later opens an account for the buyer. This
    account can be used on any other U.S. merchant site
    offering the Bill Me Later payment option. Once established,
    customers can then manage their accounts online with access to
    their transaction history and monthly statements and can elect
    to establish recurring electronic monthly payments. Bill Me
    Later earns the majority of its revenues by collecting interest
    on the outstanding customer balances and collecting late fees,
    as well as transaction fees from merchants.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    Bill Me Later’s alternative payment solutions help
    multichannel retailers to attract, satisfy and retain customers
    at the point of sale. Through this offering, we believe that
    merchants can make successful real-time retailing decisions, and
    that multichannel online retailers of all sizes can develop an
    effective payments strategy and  increase sales and satisfaction
    by providing consumers with the secure, convenient and flexible
    payment choices they demand. The Bill Me Later payment solution
    is available on the websites of more than 1,000 online stores,
    catalogs and travel partners, including Borders, Blue Nile,
    Bluefly, Continental Airlines, eLUXURY, Fujitsu, JetBlue,
    Overstock, QVC, Toshiba, Toys “R” Us,
    U.S. Airways, Walmart.com and Zappos.


 



    Payments
    Growth Strategy


 


    We seek to become the online payment solution of choice around
    the world through our focus on simplifying and improving the
    customer experience, striving to be the most secure method of
    payment on the Internet, enhancing our product offering for our
    merchants and utilizing multiple sales channels. To establish
    PayPal and Bill Me Later as the online payment solution of
    choice, we intend to continue focusing on increased user
    adoption of PayPal on our Marketplaces platforms, continued
    expansion of PayPal’s Merchant Services business and our
    financial products business, and expanding the offerings of Bill
    Me Later, including as a funding source for PayPal accounts, as
    well as on an increasing number of merchant sites, including the
    eBay Marketplace.


 



    Marketplaces


 


    PayPal’s services are integrated into the checkout flow of
    the eBay.com platform in our key markets, including the U.S.,
    Germany, the U.K. and Canada. In 2008, eBay.com generated
    approximately $59.7 billion in GMV. PayPal, in turn,
    generated approximately $30.4 billion of net Total
    Payment Volume from eBay.com transactions, which represented
    approximately 51% of PayPal’s net Total Payment Volume
    during 2008. Net Total Payment Volume is the total dollar volume
    of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed
    through our Payments system, excluding PayPal’s payment
    gateway business.


 


    We intend to increase PayPal’s penetration of GMV on the
    eBay.com platform globally by continuing to integrate PayPal
    with eBay listings and new formats, including our adjacent
    Marketplaces businesses, focusing on buyer and seller protection
    programs and adding product features and innovations important
    to the Marketplaces community. We believe that our expansion
    into an increased number of international markets and currencies
    will continue to make cross-border transactions easier and more
    efficient, benefiting both our Marketplaces and Payments
    segments.


 



    PayPal
    Merchant Services


 


    Our Merchant Services business offers a differentiated product
    solution for each merchant category, while providing a
    cost-effective and secure payment solution across all
    categories. In 2008, PayPal expanded its presence to ecommerce
    websites such as those of American Airlines, Omaha Steaks,
    Walmart.com, Zappos, BBC, Vodafone, Deutsche Post and Ferrari.
    We intend to continue to market our global payments solution to
    spur our growth as a payment solution off of eBay.com for sole
    proprietors and small, medium and large businesses.


 


    We also intend to grow our Merchant Services business by
    enhancing our product offerings and leveraging our multiple
    sales channels to expand our network of merchants globally.


 



    Payments
    Financial Products


 


    We will continue to identify transactions and markets not served
    adequately by existing payment systems and seek to develop
    product features that improve upon those legacy systems. In
    addition, we intend to expand the breadth of products and
    services available to our account holders and to continue
    offering financial products such as the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    PayPal ATM/Debit Card/Prepaid card, which enables business users
    to withdraw funds from their PayPal accounts at ATMs, pay for
    offline purchases with funds from their PayPal account, and in
    the U.S. qualify to receive cash back on eligible purchases;




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal Plus Credit Card and eBay MasterCard issued by GE Money
    Bank, which allow users to earn rewards on purchases made
    offline or using PayPal, as well as a PayPal Credit Card offered
    to U.K. users through GE Money;






    
    9



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    PayPal Plug In, which allows users to use their PayPal account
    to make payments on the Internet everywhere that MasterCard is
    accepted (including websites that do not accept PayPal);




 



     
        • 

    
    PayPal Money Market Fund, which allows participants to earn a
    yield on the funds in their PayPal account; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Bill Me Later transactional point of sale credit, which allows
    consumers to obtain instant credit at the point of transaction.





 



    Communications


 


    Our Communications segment is comprised of Skype. Skype is a
    leading global Internet communications company and is
    headquartered in Luxembourg, with offices in Europe, the
    U.S. and Asia.


 



    Skype
    Value Proposition


 


    Skype offers a simple and convenient way for people in almost
    every country around the world to stay in touch over the
    Internet through free voice and video calls, sending instant
    messages, SMS (text messaging) or files, and by making low-cost
    calls to landline and mobile numbers.


 



    Skype
    Overview


 


    Skype is focused on becoming the world’s leading
    communications software platform. Skype is software that
    millions of people use everyday to make free voice and video
    calls from one Skype user to another. Skype generates revenue
    through its premium offerings, such as calls made to and from
    landline and mobile phones, voicemail, call forwarding, and SMS.
    Skype users can also purchase a variety of flat rate
    subscriptions for regional and international calling to
    landlines in many different countries.


 


    Skype’s online communications platform is built on the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Growing user base: Skype software has been downloaded more than
    one billion times and is available in over 28 languages. As
    of December 31, 2008, Skype had approximately
    405.3 million registered users and was used in almost every
    country around the world.




 



     
        • 

    
    Product features: Skype’s product offerings are simple and
    easy to use and enable high-quality voice and video calls.




 



     
        • 

    
    Strong technology: Skype’s peer-to-peer network management,
    voice/video processing, and scalability provide it with a
    competitive advantage.




 



     
        • 

    
    A thriving ecosystem: As of December 31, 2008, there were
    more than 190 Skype Certified hardware devices, and 15,000
    third-party developers part of an ecosystem focused on enhancing
    the Skype experience.





 



    Skype
    Growth Strategy


 


    To expand upon Skype’s position as a leading global
    Internet communications company, we will continue to focus on
    acquiring new active users, reducing the churn among our
    existing users, and converting our users to Skype’s premium
    offerings. In addition, we expect that online communications
    will go beyond the desktop PC and will be available across many
    different devices and platforms. In this regard, we are focused
    on leveraging our core desktop product, increasing relevance
    among mobile users, diversifying among business users and
    increasing our scalability through improvements to Skype’s
    platform.


 


    Our strategy for driving growth in the core desktop product is
    built around continuously improving the quality and ease-of-use
    of our products, particularly with regard to voice and video
    communications. For the mobile market, Skype is focused on
    increasing consumers’ ability to bring their Skype
    functionality with them through the development of downloadable
    or pre-installed applications. We are also focused on expanding
    Skype usage among businesses through the introduction of new
    products, solutions, and partnerships designed to help
    businesses save time and money and gain a competitive edge.
    Skype also intends to work to become more scalable and
    ubiquitous by making its communications platform capable of
    working with other services, devices, and Web environments.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Other
    Items


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2008, eBay Inc. and its subsidiaries
    employed approximately 16,200 people (including temporary
    employees), approximately 9,950 of whom were located in the U.S.


 



    Competition


 


    We encounter vigorous competition in our businesses from
    numerous sources. Our users can find, buy, sell and pay for
    similar items through a variety of competing channels. These
    include, but are not limited to, online and offline retailers,
    distributors, liquidators, import and export companies, online
    and offline auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies,
    classifieds, directories, search engines, products of search
    engines, virtually all online and offline commerce participants
    (consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and
    business-to-business), online and offline shopping channels and
    networks. As our product offerings continue to broaden into new
    categories of items and new commerce formats, we expect to face
    additional competition from other online and offline channels
    for those new offerings. We compete on the basis of price,
    product selection, and services. Our growth rates in our most
    mature markets have significantly slowed and we are losing
    market share in some segments. For our Payments segment, our
    users may choose to pay through a variety of alternative means,
    including other online payment services, offline payment methods
    such as cash, check or money order, and traditional online or
    offline credit card merchant accounts. For our Communications
    segment, our users may choose to use their local telephone
    companies, cable providers and other VoIP providers. To compete
    effectively, we may need to expend significant resources in
    technology and marketing. These efforts may be expensive and
    could reduce our margins and have a materially adverse effect on
    our business, financial position, operating results and cash
    flows and reduce the trading price of our stock. We believe that
    we will be able to maintain profitability by preserving and
    expanding the size and diversity of our users’ online
    community and enhancing our user experience, but despite our
    efforts, we may not be able to continue to manage our operating
    expenses to avoid or reduce a decline in our consolidated net
    income. For more information regarding these risks, see the
    information in “Item 1A: Risk Factors” under the
    caption “Our industry is intensely competitive, and other
    companies or governmental agencies may allege that our behavior
    is anti-competitive.”


 



    Seasonality


 


    Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter
    of sequential revenue growth. However, this was not the case in
    2008 due primarily to the impact of the global economic
    environment and the strengthening U.S. dollar, which
    impacted the fourth quarter in particular. We expect transaction
    activity patterns on our websites to increasingly mirror general
    consumer buying patterns. Please see the information in
    “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the
    heading “Seasonality.”


 



    Technology


 



    Marketplaces
    and Payments


 


    Our Marketplaces and Payments platforms utilize a combination of
    proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies
    and services provided by others. We have developed intuitive
    user interfaces, customer tools and transaction processing,
    database and network applications that help enable our users to
    reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites. Our
    technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing
    of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of
    large-scale global products and services and automates much of
    the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our
    infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard
    architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or
    catastrophic occurrences. We are continually improving our
    technology to enhance the customer experience and to increase
    efficiency, scalability and security. For information regarding
    technology related risks, see the information in
    “Item 1A: Risk Factors” under the captions
    “Our failure to cost-effectively manage certain aspects of
    our business could harm us,” and “System failures
    could harm our business.”



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Communications


 


    Skype’s VoIP communication and other services are delivered
    through a peer-to-peer network architecture, in which users
    joining the network provide a significant portion of the
    technology resources (for example, computer bandwidth and
    hardware) that enable Skype’s products. To access
    Skype’s products, users download Skype software over the
    Internet. Skype utilizes a combination of proprietary
    technologies and products as well as technologies and products
    provided by third parties to design, develop and support its
    products. For more information regarding Skype’s technology
    risks, see the information in “Item 1A: Risk
    Factors” under the caption “Skype depends on key
    technology that is licensed from third parties.”


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We regard the protection of our intellectual property as
    critical to our success. We have entered into confidentiality
    and invention assignment agreements with our employees and
    contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom
    we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure
    of our proprietary information.


 


    We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by
    relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as a
    variety of administrative procedures. We actively pursue the
    registration of our trademarks, copyrights, patents and domain
    names in the U.S. and international jurisdictions. The
    expansion of our business has required us to protect our
    trademarks, patents and domain names in an increasing number of
    jurisdictions, a process that is expensive, may require
    litigation, and may not be successful in every location. We have
    registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the
    U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in
    place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and
    domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of
    interest. If we are unable to secure our trademarks or domain
    names, we could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in
    which our trademarks or domain names are not registered.


 


    Third parties have from time to time claimed, and others may
    claim in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual
    property rights. We currently are involved in several such legal
    proceedings. Please see the information in “Item 3:
    Legal Proceedings” and in “Item 1A: Risk
    Factors” under the captions “We are subject to patent
    litigation” and “We may be unable to protect or
    enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately.”


 



    Segments
    and Geographic Information


 


    For an analysis of financial information about our segments as
    well as our geographic areas, see “Note 4 —
    Segments” to our consolidated financial statements included
    elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.ebay.com. Our investor
    relations website is located at
    http://investor.ebay.com.
    We make available free of charge on our investor relations
    website under the heading “SEC Filings” our Annual
    Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such materials are electronically filed with
    (or furnished to) the SEC. Information contained on our website
    is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.



    
    12



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    ITEM 1A:  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    Risk
    Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition


 


    The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only
    ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate
    or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results
    of operations and financial condition.


 



    Our
    operating results may decline.


 


    Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during
    our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate
    significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which
    are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating
    results include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions, including the possibility of a
    severe and protracted recession in the U.S. and worldwide
    economic slowdown; recent disruptions to the credit and
    financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide; and those
    economic conditions specific to the Internet, ecommerce and
    payments industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to retain an active user base, attract new users,
    and encourage existing users to list items for sale, purchase
    items through our websites, or use our payment service or
    communication software and products, especially when consumer
    spending is contracting;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to reduce the loss of active buyers and sellers and
    increase activity of the users of our Marketplaces business,
    especially with respect to our top buyers and sellers, and
    especially in the U.S., Germany and the U.K.;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to successfully integrate and manage businesses that
    we acquire, including new needs to manage credit risks and bad
    debts following our acquisition of Bill Me Later in November
    2008;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to manage funding costs associated with our new Bill
    Me Later business;




 



     
        • 

    
    the volume, velocity, size, timing, monetization, and completion
    rates of transactions using our websites or technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    the amount and timing of operating costs and capital
    expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our
    businesses, operations, and infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    the primary and second-order effects of previously announced and
    possible future changes to our pricing, products and policies,
    including, among other changes: a reduced emphasis on upfront
    fees (e.g., insertion fees for listings) and corresponding
    increases in success-based fees (e.g., final value fees for sold
    items); new algorithms for determining which listings appear at
    the top of searches (Best Match); changes to buyer and seller
    feedback criteria; tighter seller standards, which may restrict
    some sellers from selling on our websites even if they have been
    able to do so historically; new restrictions or holds on
    payments made to certain sellers or in connection with certain
    categories of higher-risk transactions; new incentives and
    rewards for top PowerSellers; increased protection for buyers
    who pay for eligible transactions on eBay.com using PayPal, as
    well as improved seller protection for U.S. eBay sellers
    against certain claims, chargebacks and reversals; lower
    insertion fees for, and extended duration of, listings of
    fixed-price items; shipping and handling limits on certain
    categories of items (e.g., media); and requiring sellers to
    accept at least one accepted payment method (and restricting
    sellers from referencing non-permitted payment methods,
    including paper forms of payment such as checks and money
    orders), on eBay.com in the U.S. for most categories of
    items;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory and legal actions imposing obligations on our
    businesses or our users, including the injunction related to
    certain cosmetic and perfume brands (see
    “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” below);




 



     
        • 

    
    new laws or regulations, or interpretations of existing laws or
    regulations, that impose liability on us for actions of our
    users or otherwise harm our business models or restrict the
    Internet, electronic commerce, online payments, or online
    communications;






    
    13



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to meet regulatory requirements as we expand the
    range and geographical scope of PayPal’s services and the
    range of services (and marketing programs) offered by Skype;




 



     
        • 

    
    the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of
    new sites, services, and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions
    using our websites or technology and our ability to manage the
    costs of our user protection programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to manage PayPal’s payment funding mix and the
    transaction loss rate in our Payments business;




 



     
        • 

    
    the costs and results of litigation that involves us;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop product enhancements, programs, and
    features at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to upgrade and develop our systems, infrastructure,
    and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to
    improve our websites at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7
    operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our
    websites or services provided to us or our users by third
    parties;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose
    services are required for our operations, such as credit card
    networks and banks;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to manage, profitably expand and effectively
    monetize the Skype business;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to manage our businesses following recent reductions
    in our workforce;




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost and availability of online and traditional advertising,
    and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective
    manner and to retain key employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    the continued healthy operation of our technology suppliers and
    other parties with which we have commercial relations;




 



     
        • 

    
    continued consumer acceptance of the Internet as a medium for
    commerce and communication in the face of increasing publicity
    about fraud, spoofing, phishing, viruses, spyware, malware and
    other dangers of the Internet; and




 



     
        • 

    
    macroeconomic and geopolitical events affecting commerce
    generally.





 


    The increased variety of services offered on our websites makes
    it difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our
    revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving
    nature of our business, we believe that period-to-period
    comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and
    you should not rely upon them as an indication of future
    performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of
    our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving
    sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent
    difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to
    forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net
    revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a
    percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from
    historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or
    more future quarters may fall below the expectations of
    securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading
    price of our common stock would almost certainly decline.


 


    We invest heavily in marketing and promotion, customer support,
    protection programs, technology and further development of the
    operating infrastructure for our core and non-core operations.
    Some of this investment entails long-term contractual
    commitments. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our
    spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue
    shortfall, which may harm our profitability. Growth rates of our
    Marketplaces businesses in our most established markets, such as
    the U.S., Germany and the U.K., have continued to decline.
    Despite our efforts to stem these declines, growth rates in
    these and other markets may continue to decline. As our
    penetration in established markets grows, we will increasingly
    need to focus on keeping existing users, especially our top
    buyers and sellers, active and increasing their activity level
    on our websites in order to continue to grow our business. In
    addition, our Marketplaces business is facing increased
    competitive pressure. If



    
    14



Table of Contents




    we are unable to change our services in ways that reflect the
    changing demands of the ecommerce marketplace, particularly the
    higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher service
    levels, our business will suffer.


 


    In January and June 2008, we announced significant changes to
    our Marketplaces business in four major areas: fee structure,
    seller incentives, standards and buyer and seller feedback and
    increased buyer and seller protections in the U.S. In
    August 2008, we announced a series of pricing, shipping and
    other changes for our Marketplaces business in our three largest
    markets: the U.S., Germany and the U.K. We may make further
    changes in these or other areas in the future. Some of the
    changes that we have announced to date have been controversial
    with, and led to dissatisfaction among, our sellers, and
    additional changes that we announce in the future may also be
    negatively received by a number of our sellers. Given the number
    of recent changes that we have made to our policies and pricing,
    it may take a number of our sellers some time to fully assess
    and adjust to these changes, and sellers may elect to reduce
    volume while making such assessments and adjustments. If any of
    these changes cause sellers to move their business (in whole or
    in part) away from our websites or otherwise fail to improve
    gross merchandise volume or the number of successful listings,
    our operating results and profitability will be harmed.


 


    In addition, because a large percentage of PayPal transactions
    originate on the eBay platform, declines in growth rates in
    major Marketplaces markets also adversely affect PayPal’s
    growth rate. The expected future growth of our PayPal, Skype,
    StubHub, and other lower margin businesses may also cause
    downward pressure on our profit margins because those businesses
    have lower gross margins than our Marketplaces platforms.


 



    An
    economic recession could harm our business.


 


    Our Marketplaces and Payments businesses are dependent on
    consumer purchases. The current economic downturn has resulted
    in reduced selling prices and may reduce the volume of purchases
    on our Marketplaces platforms and the volume of transactions
    paid for using our PayPal payment service, and adversely affect
    our business. In addition, an economic downturn will likely
    continue to require us to increase our reserves for bad debt and
    transaction losses. Continuing poor economic conditions will
    likely continue these trends.


 



    We are
    exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest
    rates.


 


    Because we conduct a significant and growing portion of our
    business outside the United States but report our results in
    U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in
    currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency
    service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face
    financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or
    if exposure reports are delayed. PayPal also holds some
    corporate and customer funds in
    non-U.S. currencies,
    and thus its financial results are affected by the translation
    of these
    non-U.S. currencies
    into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations
    of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to
    foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of
    the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local
    currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the
    U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the
    translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions
    will result in increased net revenues, operating expenses, and
    net income. Similarly, our net revenues, operating expenses, and
    net income will be negatively impacted if the U.S. dollar
    strengthens against foreign currencies, as happened in the
    second half of 2008. Based on changes in foreign currency rates
    year over year, net revenues in the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2008 were positively impacted by foreign
    currency translation of $190.9 million, compared to the
    prior fiscal year. However, net revenues in the three months
    ended December 31, 2008 were negatively impacted by foreign
    currency translation of $104.9 million, compared to the
    same period of the prior fiscal year. Similarly, based on
    changes in foreign currency rates year over year, operating
    income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 was
    positively impacted by foreign currency translation of
    $130.6 million, compared to the prior fiscal year, but
    operating income for the three months ended December 31,
    2008 was negatively impacted by foreign currency translation of
    $39.0 million, compared to the same period of the prior
    fiscal year. As exchange rates vary, net sales and other
    operating results, when translated, may differ materially from
    expectations. In particular, to the extent the U.S. dollar
    strengthens against the Euro, British pound, Australian dollar,
    or Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be
    reduced as a result of these translation adjustments. While from
    time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our
    foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to
    perfectly predict or completely eliminate the effects of this
    exposure. In addition, to the extent the U.S. dollar
    strengthens against the Euro, the British pound, the Australian
    dollar, and the Canadian dollar, cross-border trade related to
    purchases of dollar-denominated goods



    
    15



Table of Contents




    by
    non-U.S. purchasers
    will likely decrease, and that decrease will likely not be
    offset by a corresponding increase in cross-border trade
    involving purchases by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in
    other currencies, adversely affecting our business.


 


    In addition, we face exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
    For example, recent reductions in interest rates have reduced
    our investment income, including income we earn on PayPal
    balances, which in turn has materially lowered our net interest
    income.


 



    The
    listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may
    harm our business.


 


    We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the
    future, communications alleging that certain items listed or
    sold through our service by our users infringe third-party
    copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual
    property rights. Although we have sought to work actively with
    the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings
    offering infringing items on our websites, some rights owners
    have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient.
    Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners
    have been active in asserting their purported rights against
    online companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of
    intellectual property rights have resulted in threats of
    litigation and actual litigation against us from time to time by
    rights owners, including litigation brought by luxury brand
    owners such as Tiffany & Co. in the U.S., Rolex S.A.
    in Germany, Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture
    in France, L’Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et
    Beauté & Cie, and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie
    in several European countries. The plaintiffs in these cases
    seek to hold eBay liable for alleged counterfeit items listed on
    our sites by third parties, for “tester” and other not
    for resale consumer products listed on our sites by third
    parties, for the alleged misuse of trademarks or copyrights in
    listings or otherwise on our sites, or in connection with paid
    search advertisements, or for alleged violations of selective
    distribution channel laws or parallel import laws for listings
    of authentic items. Such plaintiffs seek, among other things,
    injunctive relief and damages. In the aggregate, these suits
    could result in significant damage awards and could adversely
    affect our business. In June 2008, the Paris Court of Commerce
    ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian
    Dior Couture cases that eBay and eBay International AG were
    liable for failing to prevent the sale of counterfeit items on
    its websites that traded on plaintiffs’ brand names and for
    interfering with the plaintiffs’ selective distribution
    network. The court awarded the plaintiffs approximately
    EUR 38.6 million in damages and issued an injunction
    prohibiting all sales of perfumes and cosmetics bearing the
    Dior, Guerlain, Givenchy and Kenzo brands over all worldwide
    eBay sites to the extent they are accessible from France. We
    have taken measures to comply with the injunction and have
    appealed these rulings. However, these and similar suits may
    force us to modify our business practices, which could lower our
    revenue, increase our costs or make our websites less convenient
    to our customers. Any such results could materially harm our
    business.


 


    In addition to litigation from rights owners, we may be subject
    to regulatory, civil or criminal proceedings and penalties if
    the authorities feel we have aided in the sale of counterfeit
    goods. While we have had some early success in defending against
    such litigation, more recent cases have been based, at least in
    part, on different legal theories than those of earlier cases,
    and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful
    in defending against such litigation. For example, the German
    Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may owe duties, under
    certain circumstances, to content owners and competitors
    relating to taking reasonable steps to prevent the listing of
    illegal, counterfeit, and pirated items. Plaintiffs in recent
    cases have argued that we are not entitled to safe harbors under
    the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the U.S. or as a
    hosting provider in the European Union because of the alleged
    active nature of our involvement with our sellers, and that,
    whether or not such safe harbors are available, we should be
    found liable because we supposedly have not adequately removed
    counterfeit listings or effectively suspended users who have
    created such listings. We are constantly improving and modifying
    our efforts to eliminate counterfeit and pirated items. These
    improvements are in response to ongoing business initiatives
    designed to reduce bad buyer experiences and improve customer
    satisfaction as well as in response to new patterns we are
    seeing among counterfeiters and others committing fraud on our
    users. Notwithstanding these efforts, we believe that the legal
    climate, especially in Europe, is becoming more adverse to our
    arguments, which may require us to take actions which could
    lower our revenues, increase our costs, or make our websites
    less convenient to our customers, which may materially harm our
    business. In addition, a public perception that counterfeit or
    pirated items are commonplace on our site, even if factually
    incorrect, could damage our reputation and our business.



    
    16



Table of Contents




    Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners may
    also seek to bring legal action against entities that are
    peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items, such as
    payment companies. To the extent that intellectual property
    rights owners bring legal action against PayPal based upon the
    use of PayPal’s payment services in a transaction involving
    the sale of infringing items, including on our websites, our
    business could be harmed.


 



    We are
    subject to patent litigation.


 


    We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other
    parties’ patents. Some of these ongoing suits are described
    under the heading “Item 3 — Legal
    Proceedings,” below. We are a defendant in other patent
    suits and we have been notified of several other potential
    patent disputes, and expect that we will increasingly be subject
    to patent infringement claims involving various aspects of our
    Marketplaces, Payments and Communications businesses as our
    services expand in scope and complexity. These claims, whether
    meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to resolve,
    and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing
    business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or
    licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting
    certain operations.


 



    Use of
    our services for illegal purposes could harm our
    business.


 


    The law relating to the liability of providers of online
    services for the activities of their users on their service is
    often challenged in the U.S. and internationally. In
    violation of our policies, unlawful goods and stolen goods have
    been listed and traded on our services. We may be unable to
    prevent our users from selling unlawful or stolen goods or
    unlawful services or selling goods or services in an unlawful
    manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or
    criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users
    through our services. We have been subject to several lawsuits
    based upon such allegations. In December 2004, an executive of
    Baazee.com, our Indian subsidiary, was arrested in connection
    with a user’s listing of a pornographic video clip on that
    website. We continue to contest the charges related to this
    arrest. Similarly, our Korean subsidiary and one of its
    employees were found criminally liable for listings on the
    Korean subsidiary’s website. The German Federal Supreme
    Court has ruled that we may have a duty to take reasonable
    measures to prevent prohibited DVDs from being sold on our site
    to minors and that competitors may be able to enforce this duty.
    In a number of circumstances, third parties have alleged that
    our services aid and abet certain violations of certain laws,
    including antiscalping laws with respect to the resale of
    tickets, laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, the
    fencing of stolen goods, and restrictive distribution laws and
    distance selling laws.


 


    Although we have prohibited the listing of stolen goods and
    certain high-risk items and implemented other protective
    measures, we may be required to spend substantial resources to
    take additional protective measures or discontinue certain
    service offerings, any of which could harm our business. Any
    costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to
    the alleged or actual sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful
    sale of goods could harm our business. In addition, we have
    received significant and continuing media attention relating to
    the listing or sale of unlawful goods and stolen goods using our
    services. This negative publicity, even if factually incorrect,
    could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand
    names and make users reluctant to use our services.


 


    PayPal’s payment system is also susceptible to potentially
    illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal online
    gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales
    of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of
    software and other intellectual property, money laundering, bank
    fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of
    alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, and online securities
    fraud. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for
    intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal
    activities. Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and
    lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, including PayPal’s
    ability to take legal action to recover its losses for certain
    violations of its acceptable use policy, illegal activities
    could still be funded using PayPal. Any resulting claims or
    liabilities could adversely affect our business.


 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with information disseminated
    through our service.


 


    The law relating to the liability of online services companies
    for information carried on or disseminated through their
    services is often unsettled. Claims could be made against online
    services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for
    defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or
    trademark infringement, or



    
    17



Table of Contents




    other theories based on the nature and content of the materials
    disseminated through their services. Several private lawsuits
    seeking to impose liability under a number of these theories
    have been brought against us, as well as other online service
    companies. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has
    been proposed that would prohibit or impose liability for the
    transmission over the Internet of certain types of information.
    Our service features a Feedback Forum, which includes
    information from users regarding other users. Although all such
    feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of
    defamation or other injury have been made in the past and could
    be made in the future against us for not removing content posted
    in the Feedback Forum.


 


    Furthermore, several court decisions arguably have narrowed the
    scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers
    like us under the Communications Decency Act. For example, the
    Ninth Circuit recently held that certain immunity provisions
    under the Communications Decency Act might not apply to the
    extent that a website owner materially contributes to the
    development of unlawful content on its website. In addition, the
    Paris Court of Commerce has ruled in the Louis Vuitton
    Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that
    applicable laws protecting passive internet “hosts”
    from liability are inapplicable to eBay given that the content
    in question was provided by users under eBay’s control and
    authority. This trend, if continued, may increase our potential
    liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our
    sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where
    laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled. If we become
    liable for information provided by our users and carried on our
    service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be
    directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures
    to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending
    substantial resources or discontinuing certain service
    offerings, which would negatively affect our financial results.
    In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability
    issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals
    could require us to incur additional costs and harm our
    reputation and our business.


 



    Government
    inquiries may lead to charges or penalties.


 


    A large number of transactions occur on our websites on a daily
    basis. Government regulators have received a significant number
    of consumer complaints about both eBay and PayPal, which, while
    small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in
    aggregate numbers. As a result, from time to time we have been
    contacted by various foreign and domestic governmental
    regulatory agencies that have questions about our operations and
    the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has
    received inquiries regarding its restriction and disclosure
    practices from the Federal Trade Commission and regarding these
    and other business practices from the attorneys general of a
    number of states. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a
    settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of
    states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the
    attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement,
    increase educational messaging to users about funding choices,
    and communicate more information regarding protection programs
    to users. We currently face inquiries from government regulators
    in various jurisdictions related to actions that we have taken
    that are designed to improve the safety of transactions on our
    websites, most notably by requiring PayPal to be offered
    and/or used
    for certain high-risk transactions or by certain sellers in
    certain jurisdictions, and we may face similar inquires from
    other government regulators in the future. For example, the
    Reserve Bank of Australia is currently reviewing our policy
    requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on
    most transactions on our localized Australian website and
    precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee
    for accepting PayPal as a payment method. Similarly, Bill Me
    Later has from time to time received customer complaints that
    could result in investigations into Bill Me Later’s
    business practices by state or federal regulators. As a result
    of the current credit crisis, we expect new laws and regulations
    to be imposed on providers of credit. We are likely to receive
    additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future,
    including under existing or new credit laws or regulations,
    which may lead to action against us. We have responded to all
    inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and
    planned antifraud efforts, customer support procedures,
    operating procedures and disclosures. If one or more of these
    agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future
    inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines or
    other penalties, or forced to change our operating practices in
    ways that could harm our business.


 



    We are
    subject to general litigation and regulatory
    disputes.


 


    From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or
    regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of
    business. The number and significance of these disputes and
    inquiries have increased as our business expands and



    
    18



Table of Contents




    our company grows larger. We have in the past been forced to
    litigate such claims. We may also become more vulnerable to
    third-party claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium
    Copyright Act, the Lanham Act and the Communications Decency Act
    are interpreted by the courts and as we expand geographically
    into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the
    potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves
    are either unclear or less favorable. Any claims or regulatory
    actions against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time
    consuming result in costly litigation, damage awards, injunctive
    relief, or increased costs of business through adverse judgment
    or settlement, require us to change our business practices in
    expensive ways, require significant amounts of management time,
    result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or
    otherwise harm our business.


 



    Failure
    to deal effectively with fraudulent transactions and customer
    disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our
    business.


 


    Beginning in October 2008, buyers who pay for transactions on
    eBay.com with PayPal are protected on eligible transactions for
    the full amount of an item’s purchase price if the buyer
    does not receive the goods they purchased or if the goods differ
    significantly from what was described by the seller.
    Furthermore, U.S. sellers on eBay.com have received
    improved seller protection for eligible transactions in which
    the seller is paid with PayPal, in that they are covered against
    payment reversals due to buyer claims of an unauthorized payment
    or an item that was not received, so long as the seller follows
    specified shipping and handling practices. We also enhanced our
    buyer and seller protections in certain eBay international
    marketplaces. These changes to PayPal’s buyer protection
    program could result in future increases and fluctuations in our
    Payments transaction loss rate. For the fiscal years ended
    December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, our Payments
    transaction losses (including both direct losses and buyer
    protection payouts) totaled $139.3 million and
    $171.5 million, representing 0.29% and 0.29% of our
    net Total Payment Volume in each period, respectively.


 


    PayPal’s highly automated and liquid payment service makes
    PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its
    service, PayPal continually strives to maintain the right
    balance of appropriate measures to promote both convenience and
    security for customers. Identity thieves and those committing
    fraud using stolen credit card or bank account numbers can
    potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as
    PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal’s current and
    former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone
    out of business or significantly restricted their businesses
    largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses
    advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically
    knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent
    PayPal’s anti-fraud systems using increasingly
    sophisticated methods. In addition, PayPal’s service could
    be subject to employee fraud or other internal security
    breaches, and PayPal may be required to reimburse customers for
    any funds stolen as a result of such breaches. Merchants could
    also request reimbursement, or stop using PayPal, if they are
    affected by buyer fraud.


 


    PayPal incurs substantial losses from merchant fraud, including
    claims from customers that merchants have not performed or that
    their goods or services do not match the merchant’s
    description. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the
    customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from
    erroneous transmissions, and from customers who have closed bank
    accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments.
    In addition to the direct costs of such losses, if they are
    related to credit card transactions and become excessive, they
    could result in PayPal losing the right to accept credit cards
    for payment. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, the
    velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and result in
    corresponding decreases in our net Total Payment Volume, in
    which case our business would further suffer. Bill Me Later is
    similarly subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated
    with merchants, users of the Bill Me Later service and third
    parties handling its user information, which could increase our
    exposure to transaction losses and reduce the profitability of
    Bill Me Later’s business. Our Payments business has taken
    measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these
    measures need to be continually improved and may not be
    effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or
    in connection with new product offerings. If these measures do
    not succeed, our business will suffer.


 


    eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities
    on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from
    users who may not have received the goods that they had
    purchased. In some cases individuals have been arrested and
    convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay
    also receives complaints from sellers who have not received
    payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase.
    Non-payment may occur



    
    19



Table of Contents




    because of miscommunication, because a buyer has changed his or
    her mind and decided not to honor the contract to purchase the
    item, or because the buyer bid on the item maliciously in order
    to harm either the seller or eBay. In some European and Asian
    jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a
    sale made by a professional seller within a specified time
    period. While sometimes eBay can suspend the accounts of users
    who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to
    other users, eBay does not have the ability to require users to
    make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole
    other than through our limited buyer protection programs. Other
    than through these programs, eBay does not compensate users who
    believe they have been defrauded by other users, although users
    who pay through PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their
    credit card company or bank, which in turn will seek
    reimbursement from PayPal. eBay also periodically receives
    complaints from buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased.
    We expect to continue to receive communications from users
    requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal
    action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for
    these sort of claims is only beginning to be clarified in some
    jurisdictions and may be higher in some
    non-U.S. jurisdictions
    than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for
    third-party actions could be costly for us, divert management
    attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to
    adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition,
    affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that
    could take action against us, including imposing fines or
    seeking injunctions.


 


    Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of
    fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our Marketplaces and
    Payments services could damage our reputation, reduce our
    ability to attract new users or retain our current users,
    diminish the value of our brand names. We believe that negative
    user experiences are one of the primary reasons users stop using
    our services.


 



    Any
    factors which reduce cross-border trade could harm our
    business.


 


    Cross-border transactions using our websites generally provide
    higher revenues and gross margins than similar transactions that
    take place within a single country due to higher transaction
    fees we earn for those transactions. Cross-border trade has
    become an increasingly important source of both revenue and
    profits for us. To the extent that any factors result in a net
    reduction in cross-border trade, including, among other factors,
    fluctuations in exchange rates, the application of specific
    national or regional laws (e.g., selective distribution channel
    laws) to users in other countries, or any other factors impose
    restrictions on, or increase the costs of, shipping goods across
    national borders, our business would suffer. We believe that
    recent increases in the relative value of the U.S. dollar
    versus other currencies have reduced cross-border trade between
    U.S. sellers and foreign buyers, without a corresponding
    increase in cross-border traffic in the other direction,
    adversely affecting our business.


 



    Our
    business is subject to online security risks, including security
    breaches and identity theft.


 


    To succeed, online commerce and communications must provide a
    secure transmission of confidential information over public
    networks. Our security measures may not detect or prevent
    security breaches that could harm our business. Currently, a
    significant number of our users authorize us to bill their
    credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged
    by us. PayPal’s users routinely provide credit card and
    other financial information. We rely on encryption and
    authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide
    the security and authentication to effectively secure
    transmission of confidential information, including customer
    credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new
    discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments
    may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by
    us to protect transaction data. In addition, any party who is
    able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the
    user’s transaction data. An increasing number of websites
    have reported breaches of their security. Any compromise of our
    security could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business,
    and could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other
    laws. In addition, a party that is able to circumvent our
    security measures could misappropriate proprietary information,
    cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or
    those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and
    business. Under credit card rules and our contracts with our
    card processors, if there is a breach of credit card information
    that we store, or that is stored by PayPal’s direct credit
    card processing customers, we could be liable to the credit card
    issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related
    expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow credit card industry
    security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer
    information, we could incur significant



    
    20



Table of Contents




    fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using
    credit cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we
    were unable to accept credit cards, our business would be
    seriously damaged.


 


    eBay’s Korean subsidiary, IAC, has notified a majority of
    its approximately 20 million users of a data breach
    involving personally identifiable information including name,
    address, resident registration number and some transaction and
    refund data (but not including credit card information or real
    time banking information). Approximately 141,000 users have sued
    IAC over this breach in several lawsuits and we expect more to
    do so in the future. There is some precedent in Korea for a
    court to grant “consolation money” for data breaches
    without a specific finding of harm from the breach. Such
    precedents have involved payments of up to approximately $200
    per user. A consumer agency recently made a non-binding
    recommendation that IAC make payments of
    50,000-100,000
    Korean won (approximately $35-70) to consumers who had
    complained to it as a result of such breach. IAC intends to
    vigorously defend itself in this lawsuit.


 


    Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or
    electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and we have
    experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our
    system that have made all or portions of our websites
    unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend
    significant resources to protect against security breaches or to
    address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to
    become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we
    operate. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by
    parties with which we have commercial relationships that result
    in the unauthorized release of our users’ personal
    information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk
    of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance
    policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to
    reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches.


 


    Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet
    companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties
    using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing”
    emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or
    other personal information or to introduce viruses through
    “trojan horse” programs to our users’ computers.
    These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by eBay,
    PayPal, Skype, or a user of one of those businesses, but direct
    recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email
    or request that the recipient send a password or other
    confidential information via email or download a program.
    Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and
    “phishing” emails through product improvements and
    user education, “spoof” and “phishing”
    remain a serious problem that may damage our brands, discourage
    use of our websites, and increase our costs.


 



    Changes
    in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection
    of user data could adversely affect our business.


 


    We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use,
    retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable
    information about our users, especially for financial
    information and for users located outside of the U.S. In
    many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party
    transactions but also to transfers of information between
    ourselves and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our
    subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial
    relations. New laws in this area have been passed by several
    jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing
    additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of
    user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may
    be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to
    country and our current data protection policies and practices
    may not be consistent with those interpretations and
    applications. Complying with these varying international
    requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or
    require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse
    to our business. In addition, we have and post on our websites
    our own privacy policies and practices concerning the
    collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or
    perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy
    policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other
    federal, state or international privacy or consumer
    protection-related laws and regulations could result in
    proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or
    others, subject us to significant penalties and negative
    publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above,
    we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which
    themselves may result in a violation of these laws.


 



    Our
    revenue from advertising is subject to factors beyond our
    control.


 


    We derive an increasing portion of our revenues from advertising
    on our websites. Revenues from online advertising are sensitive
    to events and trends that affect advertising expenditures, such
    as general changes in the



    
    21



Table of Contents




    economy and changes in consumer spending, as well as the
    effectiveness of online advertising versus offline advertising
    media and the value our websites provide to advertisers relative
    to other websites. In addition, major search engine operators
    have the ability to change from time to time, at their sole
    discretion, the rules and search algorithms governing the
    pricing, availability, and placement of online advertising. Any
    changes in these rules or search algorithms could materially
    reduce the value that we derive from online advertising on our
    websites, either directly or indirectly. For example, retailers
    pay a fee to Shopping.com for online shoppers directed to their
    websites by Shopping.com. Rule changes made by search engines in
    2008 disrupted traffic to our Shopping.com website, which in
    turn has adversely affected click-through traffic to retailers
    from our Shopping.com website and associated fee revenue. If we
    experience a reduction in our advertising revenues due to
    economic, competitive, technological or other factors, including
    a reduction in consumer spending due to the current recession in
    the U.S. and worldwide economic slowdown or if we are
    unable to provide value to our advertisers, our business and
    financial results would suffer.


 



    Our
    growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and
    these efforts may be costly.


 


    We believe that continuing to strengthen our brands will be
    critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and
    will require a continued focus on active marketing efforts
    across all of our brands. The demand for and cost of online and
    traditional advertising have been increasing, and may continue
    to increase. Accordingly, we will need to continue to spend
    substantial amounts of money on, and devote substantial
    resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to
    create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Since 2004, we
    have significantly increased the number of brands we are
    supporting, adding Rent.com, Shopping.com, our classified
    websites (e.g., Kijiji and Marktplaats), StubHub, Skype and Bill
    Me Later, among others. Each of these brands requires its own
    resources, increasing the costs of our branding efforts. Brand
    promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even
    if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses
    incurred in building our brands. Also, major search engine
    operators that we use to advertise our brands have
    frequently-changing rules that govern their pricing,
    availability and placement of online advertisement (e.g., paid
    search, keywords), and changes to these rules could negatively
    affect our use of online advertising to promote our brands. If
    we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur
    substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and
    maintain our brands, our business would be harmed.


 



    New
    and existing regulations could harm our business.


 


    We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other
    companies conducting business on and off the Internet. It is not
    always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property
    ownership, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual
    property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls,
    taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and personal privacy
    apply to online businesses such as ours. The majority of these
    laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and
    related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or
    address the unique issues of the Internet and related
    technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as
    the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European
    Union’s Directive on Distance Selling and Electronic
    Commerce, are being interpreted by the courts, but their
    applicability and scope remain uncertain. Furthermore, as our
    activities and the types of goods and services listed on our
    websites expand, including through acquisitions such as our
    acquisition of Bill Me Later, a transactional credit provider,
    in November 2008 and StubHub, an online ticket marketplace, in
    February 2007, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold
    that we or our users are subject to licensure or prohibited from
    conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally
    or with respect to certain actions (e.g., the sale of real
    estate, event tickets, cultural goods, boats and automobiles).


 


    Our success and increased visibility has driven some existing
    businesses that perceive our business model to be a threat to
    their business to raise concerns about our business models to
    policymakers and regulators, particularly in the U.S. and
    Europe. These established businesses and their trade association
    groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape
    the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have
    significant operations. They may employ these resources in an
    effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways
    intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the
    ability of users to use our products and services. In
    particular, these established businesses have raised concerns
    relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller
    obligations, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other
    intellectual property rights, and the liability of the provider
    of an



    
    22



Table of Contents




    Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to
    those and other issues. Success in changing the legal or
    regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability
    for third-party listings could negatively impact our business.


 


    Over the last few years some large retailers and their trade
    associations have sought legislation in a number of states and
    the U.S. Congress that would make eBay liable for the sale
    of stolen property or would ban certain categories of goods from
    sale on our platform, including gift cards and health and beauty
    products. No such legislation has passed. Nonetheless, the
    proponents continue to seek passage of such legislation, and if
    any of these laws are adopted it could harm our business.


 


    Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State
    of California, where our headquarters are located, have
    regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of
    property by “secondhand dealers” or
    “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign
    jurisdictions, including France, have attempted, and may attempt
    in the future, to impose such regulations upon us or our users.
    Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users
    appears to be increasing and such attempted enforcements could
    harm our business. In France, we have been sued by Conseil des
    Ventes, the French auction regulatory authority. The agency
    alleges that sales on our French website constitute illegal
    auctions that cannot be performed without its consent. A lawsuit
    alleging similar claims has been brought against us by two
    associations of French antique dealers. We intend to vigorously
    defend against these lawsuits. However, this and other
    regulatory and licensure claims could result in costly
    litigation and, if successful, could require us to change the
    way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or
    reduce revenues (for example, by forcing us to prohibit listings
    of certain items for some locations). We could also be subject
    to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could
    harm our business.


 


    A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues
    seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For
    example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide
    trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a
    branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market
    by the trademark holder or with the holder’s consent. The
    application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is
    largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if
    trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of
    certain items in one or more locations, our business could be
    harmed.


 


    As we expand and localize our international activities, we
    become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries in
    which we operate. In addition, because our services are
    accessible worldwide, and we facilitate sales of goods to users
    worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our
    users are required to comply with their laws based on the
    location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the
    location of the product or service being sold or provided in an
    ecommerce transaction. For example, we were found liable in
    France, under French law in the recent Louis Vuitton
    Malletier litigation for transactions on our websites
    worldwide that did not involve French buyers and sellers. Laws
    regulating Internet and ecommerce companies outside of the
    U.S. may be less favorable than those in the U.S., giving
    greater rights to consumers, content owners, competitors, users
    and other third parties. Compliance may be more costly or may
    require us to change our business practices or restrict our
    service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on our
    users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to
    overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting
    requirements on us. Our alleged failure to comply with foreign
    laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal
    prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services.


 



    If our
    Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of
    any laws or regulations, including those governing money
    transmission, electronic funds transfers, money laundering,
    banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure
    and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business
    practices.


 


    To date, PayPal has obtained licenses to operate as a money
    transmitter in 42 U.S. states and territories and
    interpretations in seven states that licensing is not required
    under their existing statutes. The remaining U.S. states
    and territories do not currently regulate money transmitters. As
    a licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to restrictions
    on its investment of customer funds, reporting requirements,
    bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory
    agencies. If PayPal were found to be in violation of money
    services laws or regulations, PayPal could be subject to
    liability, forced to cease doing business with residents of
    certain states, forced to change its business practices, or
    required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals
    that could impose a substantial



    
    23



Table of Contents




    cost on PayPal. Any change to PayPal’s business practices
    that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits
    its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could decrease
    the velocity of trade on eBay, which would further harm our
    business.


 


    Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date,
    PayPal has assumed that its service is subject to the Electronic
    Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the Federal
    Reserve Board. As a result, among other things, PayPal must
    provide advance disclosure of changes to its service, follow
    specified error resolution procedures and reimburse consumers
    for losses above $50 from transactions not authorized by the
    consumer. PayPal currently voluntarily reimburses consumers for
    all financial losses from transactions not authorized by the
    consumer, not just losses above $50. PayPal seeks to pass most
    of these losses on to the relevant merchants, but PayPal incurs
    losses if the merchant does not have sufficient funds in its
    PayPal account.


 


    PayPal is also subject to anti-money laundering and
    counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations that prohibit,
    among other things, its involvement in transferring the proceeds
    of criminal activities. Although PayPal has adopted a program to
    comply with these laws and regulations, any errors or failure to
    implement the program properly could lead to lawsuits,
    administrative action, and prosecution by the government. PayPal
    is also subject to regulations that require it to report
    suspicious activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more
    and may be required to obtain and keep more detailed records on
    the senders and recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or
    more. The interpretation of suspicious activities in this
    context is uncertain. Future regulations under the USA PATRIOT
    Act may require PayPal to revise the procedures it uses to
    verify the identity of its customers and to monitor
    international transactions more closely. As PayPal localizes its
    service in other countries, additional verification and
    reporting requirements may apply, which in some cases are more
    stringent. Several countries, including Australia, Canada,
    Luxembourg and Singapore, have implemented or are in the process
    of implementing new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist
    financing laws and regulations, and the impact of these laws and
    regulations on PayPal’s business is uncertain. PayPal could
    be required, among other things, to learn more about its
    customers before opening an account, to obtain additional
    verification of customers and to monitor its customers’
    activities more closely. These requirements could impose
    significant costs on PayPal, make it more difficult for new
    customers to join its network and reduce the attractiveness of
    its product. Failure to comply with federal, state or foreign
    money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws could
    result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties,
    and forfeiture of significant assets.


 


    While PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to
    send payments from 190 markets, only 65 of those markets
    (including the U.S.) allow its customers to receive payments, in
    some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which
    customers can withdraw funds. These limitations may affect
    PayPal’s ability to grow in these markets.


 


    Of the 190 markets whose residents can use the PayPal service,
    31 (27 countries plus four French overseas departments) are
    members of the European Union (EU). Since 2007, PayPal has
    provided localized versions of its service to customers in the
    EU through PayPal (Europe) S.A.R.L. et Cie, SCA., a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of PayPal that is licensed as a bank in Luxembourg.
    Accordingly, PayPal (Europe) is subject to significant fines or
    other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure,
    reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, funds
    management, corporate governance or other requirements imposed
    on Luxembourg banks. PayPal has limited experience in operating
    as a bank, and any fines or other enforcement actions imposed by
    the Luxembourg regulator could adversely affect PayPal’s
    business. PayPal (Europe) implements its localized services in
    EU countries through an expedited “passport”
    notification process through the Luxembourg regulator to
    regulators in other EU member states pursuant to EU Directives,
    and has completed the “passport” notice process in all
    EU member countries. The regulators in these countries could
    notify PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that
    will apply to its business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer
    protection law, and could also seek to persuade the Luxembourg
    regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its activities in
    the local country through a branch office. Any such responses
    from these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay,
    PayPal’s plans for expanding its business.


 


    In markets other than the U.S., EU, Australia and China, PayPal
    serves its customers through PayPal Private Ltd., a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore. In many of
    these markets, it is not clear whether PayPal’s
    Singapore-based service is subject to Singaporean law or, if it
    is subject to local laws, whether



    
    24



Table of Contents




    such local law requires a payment processor like PayPal to be
    licensed as a bank or financial institution or otherwise. Even
    if PayPal is not currently required to obtain a license in some
    jurisdictions, future localization or targeted marketing of
    PayPal’s service in those countries, or expansion of the
    financial products offered by PayPal to new jurisdictions
    (either alone, through a commercial alliance or through an
    acquisition), could subject PayPal to additional licensure
    requirements, laws and regulations and increased regulatory
    scrutiny. These factors could impose substantial costs and
    involve considerable delay to the provision or development of
    its products. Delay or failure to receive such a license or
    regulatory approval could require PayPal to change its business
    practices or features in ways that would adversely affect
    PayPal’s international expansion plans and could require
    PayPal to suspend providing products and services to customers
    in one or more countries.


 


    Our Bill Me Later service is similarly subject to a variety of
    laws and regulations. Although Bill Me Later does not originate
    loans, one or more jurisdictions may conclude that Bill Me Later
    is a lender or money transmitter or loan broker, which could
    subject us to liability or regulation in one or more
    jurisdictions. Additionally, federal regulators could mandate
    changes to the relationship between Bill Me Later and CIT Bank,
    the financial institution that Bill Me Later relies on to extend
    credit to customers with the Bill Me Later service. Any adverse
    changes in this relationship could negatively impact Bill Me
    Later’s ability to continue operating its business as
    currently conducted.


 



    Changes
    to credit card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could
    harm PayPal’s business.


 


    PayPal does not belong to or directly access credit card
    networks, such as Visa and MasterCard. As a result, PayPal must
    rely on banks or other payment processors to process
    transactions, and must pay a fee for this service. From time to
    time, credit card networks have increased, and may increase in
    the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they
    charge for each transaction using one of their cards.
    PayPal’s credit card processors have the right to pass any
    increases in interchange fees and assessments on to PayPal as
    well as increase their own fees for processing. These increased
    fees increase PayPal’s operating costs and reduce its
    profit margins. PayPal is also required by its processors to
    comply with credit card network operating rules, and PayPal has
    agreed to reimburse its processors for any fines they are
    assessed by credit card networks as a result of any rule
    violations by PayPal or PayPal’s customers. The credit card
    networks set and interpret the credit card rules. Credit card
    networks could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret
    existing rules that PayPal or its processors might find
    difficult or even impossible to follow. As a result, PayPal
    could lose its ability to give customers the option of using
    credit cards to fund their payments. If PayPal were unable to
    accept credit cards, its business would be seriously damaged. In
    addition, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and our
    business would further suffer.


 


    PayPal is required to comply with credit card networks’
    special operating rules for Internet payment services. PayPal
    and its credit card processors have implemented specific
    business processes for merchant customers in order to comply
    with these rules, but any failure to comply could result in
    fines, the amount of which would be within the credit card
    networks’ discretion. PayPal also could be subject to fines
    from credit card networks if it fails to detect that merchants
    are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are
    considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of certain
    types of digital content. For “high risk” merchants,
    PayPal must either prevent such merchants from using PayPal or
    register such merchants with credit card networks and conduct
    additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. PayPal has
    incurred fines from its credit card processor relating to
    PayPal’s failure to detect the use of its service by
    “high risk” merchants. The amount of these fines has
    not been material, but any additional fines in the future would
    likely be for larger amounts, could become material, and could
    result in a termination of PayPal’s ability to accept
    credit cards or changes in PayPal’s process for registering
    new customers, which would seriously damage PayPal’s
    business.


 



    Changes
    in PayPal’s funding mix could adversely affect
    PayPal’s results.


 


    PayPal pays significant transaction fees when senders fund
    payment transactions using credit cards, nominal fees when
    customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of
    funds from bank accounts, and no fees when customers fund
    payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance or
    use buyer credit issued by GE Money Bank. Senders fund a
    significant portion of PayPal’s payment volume using credit
    cards, and PayPal’s financial success will remain highly
    sensitive to changes in the rate at which its senders fund
    payments using credit cards. Senders may prefer funding using
    credit cards rather than bank account transfers for a number of
    reasons,



    
    25



Table of Contents




    including the ability to dispute and reverse charges directly
    with their credit card provider if merchandise is not delivered
    or is not as described, the ability to earn frequent flier miles
    or other incentives offered by credit card issuers, the ability
    to defer payment, or a reluctance to provide bank account
    information to PayPal. The proportion of PayPal’s payment
    volume funded using credit cards has increased over time. In
    addition, some of PayPal’s newer offerings, including the
    ability to make a limited number of payments without opening an
    account, have a higher rate of credit card funding than
    PayPal’s basic product offering. In September 2006, PayPal
    entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general
    of a number of states under which it agreed to pay
    $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and
    streamline its user agreement, and communicate more information
    regarding protection programs to users. Also in September 2006,
    PayPal announced that it had reached a preliminary settlement
    agreement under which it agreed to pay approximately
    $3.5 million into a settlement fund for the benefit of a
    class represented by plaintiffs in a suit that alleged, among
    other things, that PayPal’s disclosure regarding the
    effects of users’ choice of funding mechanism was
    deceptive. This settlement has now been approved by the court.
    Although PayPal did not admit any liability for any of the
    allegations in the two cases, changes to our disclosure
    practices could result in increased use of credit card funding,
    which could harm PayPal’s business.


 



    PayPal’s
    failure to manage customer funds properly would harm its
    business.


 


    PayPal’s ability to manage and account accurately for
    customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. In
    some of the markets that PayPal serves and currencies that
    PayPal offers, PayPal has a limited operating history and
    limited management experience in managing these internal
    controls. As PayPal’s business continues to grow, it must
    strengthen its internal controls accordingly. PayPal’s
    success requires significant public confidence in its ability to
    handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of
    customer funds. Any failure to maintain necessary controls or to
    manage accurately customer funds could diminish customer use of
    PayPal’s product severely.


 



    System
    failures could harm our business.


 


    We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any
    interruption in the availability of our websites will reduce our
    current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and
    profits, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Our
    eBay.com website has been interrupted for periods of up to
    22 hours, and our PayPal website has suffered intermittent
    unavailability for periods as long as five days. In August 2007,
    Skype experienced an interruption during which the majority of
    Skype’s users were unable to use its products for
    approximately two days. Any unscheduled interruption in our
    services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss
    of revenues. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our
    services could cause current or potential users to believe that
    our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our
    competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm
    our reputation and brands. Reliability is particularly critical
    for PayPal, especially as it seeks to expand its Merchant
    Services business. Because PayPal is a regulated financial
    entity, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to
    fines, penalties, or mandatory changes to PayPal’s business
    practices, and ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing
    licenses it needs to operate or prevent it from obtaining
    additional licenses that it needs to expand. Finally, because
    our customers may use our products for critical transactions,
    any system failures could result in damage to our
    customers’ businesses. These customers could seek
    significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if
    unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming
    and costly for us to address.


 


    Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard
    architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or
    catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or
    interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss,
    telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses,
    computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Some of
    our systems, including our Shopping.com and Skype websites and
    the systems related to the Bill Me Later business, are not fully
    redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient
    for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to
    break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite
    any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural
    disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers
    to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial
    or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting
    facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our
    services. We do not carry business interruption insurance
    sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from
    interruptions in our service as a result of system failures.



    
    26



Table of Contents





    There
    are many risks associated with our international
    operations.


 


    Our international expansion has been rapid and our international
    business, especially in Germany and the U.K., has also become
    critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues outside the
    U.S. accounted for approximately 51% and 54%, respectively,
    of our net revenues in fiscal years 2007 and 2008. Expansion
    into international markets requires management attention and
    resources and requires us to localize our services to conform to
    local cultures, standards, and policies. The commercial,
    Internet, and transportation infrastructure in lesser-developed
    countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our
    traditional Marketplace business model. In many countries, we
    compete with local companies that understand the local market
    better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market
    advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into
    particular international markets or in generating revenues from
    foreign operations. For example, in 2002 we withdrew our eBay
    marketplace offering from the Japanese market, and in 2007 we
    contributed our business in China to a joint venture with a
    local Chinese company. Even if we are successful in developing
    new markets, we often expect the costs of operating new sites to
    exceed our net revenues for at least 12 months in most
    countries.


 


    As we continue to expand internationally, including through the
    expansion of PayPal, Skype, Shopping.com, and our classified
    businesses, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing
    business internationally, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    strong local competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet
    services, communications, auctioneering, professional selling,
    distance selling, privacy and data protection, banking, and
    money transmitting, that may limit or prevent the offering of
    our services in some jurisdictions, prevent enforceable
    agreements between sellers and buyers, prohibit the listing of
    certain categories of goods, require product changes, require
    special licensure, subject us to various taxes, penalties or
    audits, or limit the transfer of information between us and our
    affiliates;




 



     
        • 

    
    greater liability or legal uncertainty regarding our liability
    for the listings and other content provided by our users,
    including uncertainty as a result of legal systems that are less
    developed with respect to the Internet, unique local laws,
    conflicting court decisions and lack of clear precedent or
    applicable law;




 



     
        • 

    
    cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, online
    trading;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and business practices that favor local competitors or
    prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in integrating with local payment providers,
    including banks, credit and debit card networks, and electronic
    fund transfer systems or with the local telecommunications
    infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing levels of retail distribution, shipping,
    communications, and Internet infrastructures;




 



     
        • 

    
    different employee/employer relationships and the existence of
    workers’ councils and labor unions;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    challenges associated with joint venture relationships,
    including dependence on our joint venture partners;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal
    controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, and
    greater problems in collecting accounts receivable;




 



     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation
    of our fees or of transactions on our websites;




 



     
        • 

    
    higher telecommunications and Internet service provider costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    different and more stringent user protection, data protection,
    privacy and other laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    seasonal reductions in business activity;




 



     
        • 

    
    expenses associated with localizing our products, including
    offering customers the ability to transact business in the local
    currency;






    
    27



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange
    restrictions, and exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    volatility in a specific country’s or region’s
    political, economic or military conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    differing intellectual property laws.





 


    Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing
    business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. As we expand
    our international operations and have additional portions of our
    international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we
    also could become subject to increased difficulties in
    collecting accounts receivable, repatriating money without
    adverse tax consequences, and risks relating to foreign currency
    exchange rate fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate
    fluctuations is discussed in more detail under “We are
    exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest
    rates,” above.


 


    In addition, we conduct certain functions, including product
    development, customer support and other operations, in regions
    outside the U.S., particularly in India and China. We are
    subject to both U.S. and local laws and regulations
    applicable to our offshore activities, and any factors which
    reduce the anticipated benefits, including cost efficiencies and
    productivity improvements, associated with providing these
    functions outside of the U.S. could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    We are continuing to expand PayPal’s services
    internationally. In some countries, expansion of PayPal’s
    business may require a close commercial relationship with one or
    more local banks, a shared ownership interest with a local
    entity or registration as a bank under local law. Such
    requirements may reduce our profitability or limit the scope of
    our activities in particular countries. Any limitation on our
    ability to expand PayPal internationally could harm our business.


 


    We maintain a portion of Shopping.com’s research and
    development facilities and personnel in Israel, and in January
    2008 we acquired Fraud Sciences Ltd., an Israeli company. As a
    result, political, economic and military conditions in Israel
    affect those operations. The future of peace efforts between
    Israel and its neighboring countries remains uncertain.
    Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed
    hostilities between Israel and neighboring states could make it
    more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel,
    which could increase our costs. In addition, many of our
    employees in Israel could be required to serve in the military
    for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances. Our
    Israeli operations could be disrupted by the absence of
    employees due to military service, which could adversely affect
    our business.


 



    Acquisitions
    and joint ventures could result in operating difficulties,
    dilution, and other harmful consequences.


 


    We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including,
    most recently, Bill Me Later, Inc. in the United States and
    Den Blå Avis and BilBasen, classified businesses in
    Denmark. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide
    array of potential strategic transactions, including business
    combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses,
    technologies, services, products and other assets. At any given
    time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with
    respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of
    these transactions could be material to our financial condition
    and results of operations. The process of integrating any
    acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties
    and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may
    face difficulties include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from
    operating the businesses to issues related to integration and
    administration, particularly given the large number and size and
    varying scope of our recent acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from
    changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in
    management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the
    direction of the business;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to integrate each company’s accounting,
    management, information, human resource and other administrative
    systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control
    if such integration is delayed or not implemented;






    
    28



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the need to implement controls, procedures and policies
    appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior
    to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate
    operations across different cultures and languages and to
    address the particular economic, currency, political, and
    regulatory risks associated with specific countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    in some cases, the need to transition operations, users, and
    customers onto our existing platforms; and




 



     
        • 

    
    liability for activities of the acquired company before the
    acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and
    regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other
    known and unknown liabilities.





 


    Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or
    all of our acquisitions, or may not realize them in the time
    frame expected. For example, in connection with the Skype
    transaction, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of
    approximately $1.4 billion in our financial statements
    during 2007. Future acquisitions or mergers may require us to
    issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur
    debt, liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible
    assets or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could reduce our
    profitability and harm our business.


 


    In addition, we have made certain investments, including through
    joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and
    lack management and operational control. These investments may
    involve risks. For example, the controlling joint venture
    partner in a joint venture investment may have business
    interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours,
    and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the
    controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company
    may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the
    value of our investment in the joint venture.


 



    Bill
    Me Later will expose us to new risks.


 


    We acquired Bill Me Later, a company that provides
    transaction-based credit, in late 2008. Upon acquiring Bill Me
    Later, we became exposed to new risks.


 


    Bill Me Later is not a chartered financial institution, and
    relies on CIT Bank to extend credit to Bill Me Later customers
    in order to offer the Bill Me Later service. When a consumer
    makes a purchase using the Bill Me Later service, CIT Bank funds
    the consumer loan at the point of sale and advances funds to the
    merchant, and Bill Me Later subsequently purchases the
    receivable related to the consumer loan extended by CIT Bank.
    Although CIT Bank continues to own each customer account, Bill
    Me Later owns the related receivable and is responsible for all
    servicing functions related to the account. Any termination or
    interruption of CIT Bank’s services to us, including due to
    the suspension or termination of CIT Bank’s banking
    charter, a regulatory challenge to the relationship between CIT
    Bank and Bill Me Later or the termination of our commercial
    relationship with CIT Bank for any reason, could materially and
    adversely affect our ability to offer the Bill Me Later service.
    Under those circumstances, we would likely be required to either
    reach a similar arrangement with another chartered financial
    institution, which may not be available on favorable terms, if
    at all, or to obtain our own bank charter, which would be a
    time-consuming and costly process and would subject us to a
    number of additional laws and regulations. Bill Me Later also
    relies on third-party merchant processors and payment gateways
    to process transactions using the Bill Me Later service. Most of
    the transaction volume by dollar amount through the Bill Me
    Later service is currently settled through the facilities of a
    single vendor. Any disruption to our payment processing and
    gateway services would adversely affect the Bill Me Later
    service.


 


    We currently fund the origination of receivables related to Bill
    Me Later accounts through free cash flow generated from our
    portfolio of businesses and from our existing line of credit. As
    a result of the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., our
    available line of credit was effectively reduced by Lehman
    Brothers Commercial Bank’s $160 million commitment. If
    other financial institutions that have extended credit
    commitments to us are adversely affected by U.S. and global
    economic conditions, they may become unable to fund borrowings
    under their credit commitments to us. Our ability to securitize
    receivables related to Bill Me Later accounts is dependent upon,
    among other things, conditions in the structured finance
    markets, which have been subject to recent disruptions in the
    credit industry, resulting in very limited liquidity for
    securitization purposes. If



    
    29



Table of Contents




    we are unable to fund receivables related to the Bill Me Later
    business in a cost-effective manner, the growth and
    profitability of the Bill Me Later business could be
    significantly and adversely affected.


 


    The Bill Me Later service is offered to a wide range of
    consumers, and the profitability of this business depends on our
    ability to manage credit risk while attracting new consumers
    with profitable usage patterns. Bill Me Later approves loans
    using proprietary segmentation and credit scoring algorithms and
    other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk
    of the specific transaction. These algorithms and techniques may
    not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer due
    to, among other factors, inaccurate assumptions about a
    particular consumer or the economic environment. Bill Me Later
    may also incorrectly interpret the data produced by these
    algorithms in setting its credit policies. Bill Me Later’s
    ability to manage credit risk may also be adversely affected by
    economic conditions, legal or regulatory changes (such as
    bankruptcy laws and minimum payment regulations),
    competitors’ actions and consumer behavior and other
    factors. In addition, the credit crisis and current recession in
    the U.S. may affect consumer confidence levels and reduce
    consumers’ ability or willingness to use credit, including
    our transaction-based credit product, which could impair the
    growth of the Bill Me Later business.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, Bill Me Later had an aggregate
    consumer loan portfolio of approximately $597.6 million.
    Like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from
    consumer loans, the Bill Me Later service faces the risk that
    account holders will default on their payment obligations,
    resulting in accounts becoming uncollectible, and the risk of
    potential charge-offs related to the loan portfolio. The
    nonpayment rate among Bill Me Later users may increase due to,
    among other things, worsening economic conditions, such as the
    current recession in the U.S., and higher unemployment rates.
    Consumers who miss payments on their loans often fail to repay
    them, and consumers who file for protection under the bankruptcy
    laws generally do not repay their loans. The age and rate of
    growth of a consumer loan portfolio also affects the rate of
    missed payments and loans charged off as uncollectible.
    Consumers are less likely to miss their payments within the
    first 12 to 18 months of a loan’s term. When a lender
    makes fewer loans than it has in the past, the proportion of new
    loans in its portfolio will decrease and the rate of missed
    payments and charge-offs in the portfolio will increase.


 


    In addition, Bill Me Later faces other risks similar to those
    faced by PayPal, including the risk of systems failures,
    security breaches or other loss of customer data, fraud,
    intellectual property claims, compliance failures, and changes
    to regulations relating to credit offerings described in these
    Risk Factors, including under the captions “Government
    inquiries may lead to charges or penalties” and “If
    our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation
    of any laws or regulations, including those governing money
    transmission, electronic funds transfer, money laundering,
    banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure
    and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business
    practices.”


 



    Our
    business and users may be subject to sales tax and other
    taxes.


 


    The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax,
    value-added tax, or VAT, goods and services tax, business tax,
    and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses such as eBay and
    to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the
    fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes
    were established before the growth of the Internet and
    ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes
    apply to the Internet or electronic commerce or communications
    conducted over the Internet. In addition, some jurisdictions
    have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing
    the Internet or some aspect of electronic commerce or
    communications on the Internet. For example, the State of New
    York recently passed new legislation that requires any
    out-of-state seller of tangible personal property to collect and
    remit New York use tax if the seller engages affiliates in New
    York to perform certain business promotion activities. Several
    ecommerce companies are challenging this new law, which was
    recently upheld by a lower level New York court. While this
    new law does not specifically apply to our businesses it may
    adversely affect our sellers and indirectly harm our business.


 


    From time to time, some taxing authorities have notified us that
    they believe we owe them certain taxes. In May 2008, the City of
    Chicago notified both eBay and StubHub that they are liable for
    a city amusement tax on tickets to events in Chicago,
    irrespective of the location of the buyer or seller, and has
    filed suit to enforce collection of taxes they claim are due.
    The application of similar existing or future laws could have
    adverse effects on our business.


 


    Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and
    local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of
    goods and services or communications through the Internet. These
    proposals, if adopted, could substantially



    
    30



Table of Contents




    impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could
    diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our
    activities. The U.S. federal government’s moratorium
    on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or
    discriminatory taxes on ecommerce was extended through November
    2014. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state, or local
    authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from
    collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the
    enactment of the moratorium
    and/or one
    of its extensions.


 


    In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax
    Project — an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S.,
    state, and local governments to require collection and
    remittance of distant sales tax by out-of-state
    sellers — bills have been introduced in recent years
    in the U.S. Congress to overturn the Supreme Court’s
    Quill decision, which limits the ability of state
    governments to require sellers outside of their own state to
    collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state
    residents. Such legislation may be considered by the
    U.S. Congress as a way to enable states to increase sales
    tax revenues and help address significant state budget
    difficulties caused by the economic downturn. The adoption of
    any legislation overturning the Quill decision that lacks
    a robust small business exemption would harm our users and our
    business.


 


    We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users
    of our services. One or more states or the federal government or
    foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting
    or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or
    facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by
    legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation
    to such effect has been discussed in the U.S. Congress,
    several states, and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if an
    eBay company was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users
    of our services by a jurisdiction in which eBay operates. In
    July 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R.
    3221) was signed into law. This law contains provisions
    that require companies like PayPal to report to the IRS
    information on payments received by some of our customers. The
    legislation, effective for payments received after
    December 31, 2010, will require PayPal and similar
    companies to report to the IRS
    U.S.-based
    customers who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more
    than 200 payments in a year. This law will require PayPal to
    request tax ID numbers from U.S. users and track payments
    by tax ID number. This requirement may decrease seller activity
    and harm our business. One or more other jurisdictions may also
    seek to impose tax-collection or reporting obligations based on
    the location of the product or service being sold or provided in
    an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective
    users are located. Imposition of a discriminatory record keeping
    or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on
    our sites and would harm our business. Foreign authorities may
    also require eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with
    local laws regulating professional sellers, including tax
    requirements. In addition, we have periodically received
    requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for
    information regarding the transactions of large classes of
    sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally
    obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any
    requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a
    class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to
    file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements
    that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of
    ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect
    taxes from, or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity
    on our sites and harm our business.


 


    We pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the
    various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are
    entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries.
    However, because of our unique business model, the application
    of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes
    uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that
    we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business.


 


    We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and
    legislators to clarify eBay’s obligations under new and
    emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and
    the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting
    requirements could harm our users and our business. There have
    been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs
    associated with complying with the various indirect tax
    requirements in the numerous markets in which eBay conducts or
    will conduct business.


 



    The
    current regulatory environment for Voice over Internet Protocol
    (VoIP) is uncertain, and Skype’s business could be harmed
    by new regulations or the application of existing regulations to
    its products.


 


    The current regulatory environment for VoIP is uncertain and
    rapidly changing. Skype believes that its Internet
    communications products are currently subject to few, if any, of
    the same regulations that apply to traditional telephony and
    VoIP-based telephone replacement services. VoIP companies are
    generally subject to different



    
    31



Table of Contents




    regulatory regimes in different countries, and in most cases are
    subject to lower, or no, regulatory fees and lesser, or no,
    specific regulatory requirements. However, the status of VoIP
    providers is uncertain in many jurisdictions and Skype
    frequently must respond to inquiries about its regulatory
    status. Regulatory agencies may require Skype to conform to
    rules that are difficult or impossible for it to comply with due
    to the nature of its communications technologies, which could
    adversely affect its business. For example, while suitable
    alternatives may be developed in the future, Skype is currently
    unable to identify the exact geographic origin of the traffic
    traversing the Internet or to provide detailed calling
    information about computer-to-computer communications, either of
    which may make complying with future regulatory requirements,
    such as emergency service requirements, difficult or impossible.


 


    Governments may impose new or increased fees, taxes, and
    administrative burdens on VoIP companies, or Skype may change
    its product offerings in a manner that subjects it to
    telecommunications regulations. Increased fees could include
    access and other charges payable to local exchange carriers to
    carry and terminate traffic, contributions to federal or state
    Universal Service Funds in the United States and elsewhere, and
    other charges. In addition, such fees may be assessed by
    governments retroactively or prospectively. Skype may be
    required to meet various emergency service requirements,
    disability access requirements, user protection requirements,
    number assignment and portability requirements, and interception
    or wiretapping requirements, such as the Communications
    Assistance for Law Enforcement Act in the U.S. and similar
    laws in other jurisdictions. Such regulations could result in
    substantial costs depending on the technical changes required to
    accommodate the requirements, and any increased costs could
    erode Skype’s pricing advantage over competing forms of
    communication. Regulations that decrease the degree of privacy
    for users of Skype’s products could also slow its adoption.
    The increasing growth and popularity of Internet communications
    heightens the risk that governments will seek to regulate VoIP
    and Internet communications, and Skype has received an
    increasing number of inquiries from regulators about its
    products and services. Competitors, including the incumbent
    telephone companies, may devote substantial lobbying efforts to
    seek greater protection for their existing businesses and
    increased regulation of VoIP. In the United States, various
    state legislatures and regulatory agencies are beginning to
    impose their own requirements and taxes on VoIP. Some countries
    have prohibited Skype. In many countries in which Skype products
    are available, the laws that may relate to its offerings are
    unclear. We cannot be certain that Skype or its customers are
    currently in full compliance with regulatory or other legal
    requirements in all countries in which Skype is used.
    Skype’s failure or the failure of those with whom Skype
    transacts business to comply with these requirements could
    materially adversely affect our business, financial condition
    and results of operations. In addition, increased regulatory
    requirements on VoIP would increase Skype’s costs, and, as
    a result, our business would suffer.


 


    New rules and regulations with respect to VoIP are being
    considered in various countries around the world, and at least
    some of these rules and regulations are likely to be adopted and
    to be applicable to Skype. Such new rules and regulations are
    likely to increase our costs of doing business and could prevent
    us from delivering our products and offerings over the Internet,
    which could adversely affect Skype’s customer base, and
    thus its revenue.


 



    Skype
    depends on key technology that is licensed from third
    parties.


 


    Skype licenses technology underlying certain key components of
    its software from third parties it does not control, including
    the technology underlying its peer-to-peer architecture and
    firewall traversal technology and the video
    compression/decompression used to provide high video quality.
    Although Skype has contracts in place with its third-party
    technology providers, there can be no assurance that the
    licensed technology or other technology that we may seek to
    license in the future will continue to be available on
    commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of, or
    inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in a
    decrease in service quality or loss of service until equivalent
    technology or suitable alternatives can be developed,
    identified, licensed and integrated. While we believe Skype
    generally has the ability to either extend these licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms or identify and obtain or develop
    suitable alternatives, the costs associated with licensing or
    developing such alternatives could be high and the technical
    challenge of assuring “backward compatibility” with
    older versions of Skype’s technology may be difficult to
    overcome. Any failure to maintain these licenses on commercially
    reasonable terms or to license or develop alternative
    technologies would harm Skype’s business. Skype and one of
    its licensors are currently attempting to resolve a dispute
    concerning certain key licensed technology. The parties
    previously entered into a “standstill agreement” to
    allow further time to resolve the dispute without the
    possibility of immediate litigation. While Skype is continuing
    to attempt to resolve the matter, in February 2009, Skype
    terminated this standstill



    
    32



Table of Contents




    agreement, and either party may commence a lawsuit against the
    other party beginning in March 2009. Although Skype is confident
    of its legal position, as with any litigation, there is the
    possibility of an adverse result if the matter is not resolved
    through negotiation. In such event, continued operation of
    Skype’s business as currently conducted would likely not be
    possible.


 



    Our
    businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the
    Internet. Internet service providers may be able to block,
    degrade, or charge us or our users additional fees for our
    offerings.


 


    Our customers rely on access to the Internet to use our products
    and services. In many cases that access is provided by companies
    that compete with at least some of our offerings, including
    incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile
    communications companies, and large Internet service providers.
    Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures
    that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of
    customers’ use of our offerings by restricting or
    prohibiting the use of their lines for our offerings, by
    filtering, blocking, delaying, or degrading the packets
    containing the data associated with our products, or by charging
    increased fees to us or our users for use of their lines to
    provide our offerings. Some of these providers have
    contractually restricted their customers’ access to VoIP
    offerings (which would include Skype) through their terms of
    service with their customers. These activities are technically
    feasible and may be permitted by applicable law. In addition,
    Internet service providers could attempt to charge us each time
    our customers use our offerings. Worldwide, a number of
    companies have announced plans to take such actions or are
    selling products designed to facilitate such actions.
    Interference with our offerings or higher charges for access to
    our offerings, whether paid by us or by our customers, could
    cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to
    attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth.


 



    Our
    tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive, and
    other risks that could harm this business.


 


    Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is
    subject to numerous risks. Many jurisdictions have laws and
    regulations covering the resale of event tickets, and some
    jurisdictions prohibit the resale of event tickets at prices
    above the face value of the tickets. In addition, new laws and
    regulations may be passed that would limit our or our
    users’ ability to continue this business. Regulatory
    agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for
    ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations
    or that we or our users are either subject to licensure or
    prohibited from reselling event tickets in their jurisdictions.


 


    Some event organizers and professional sports teams have
    expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our
    sites. In November 2006, the New England Patriots filed suit
    against StubHub alleging that StubHub’s resale activities
    violate Massachusetts’ ticket resale laws and constitute
    intentional interference with the team’s relationship with
    its season ticket holders. Suits alleging a variety of causes of
    actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed
    against StubHub by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers and
    unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such litigation could result in
    damage awards, could require us to change our business practices
    in ways that may be harmful to our business, or could otherwise
    negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business is
    also subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic
    and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live
    entertainment industries. The recent economic downturn has
    resulted in a decrease in ticket prices sold on our site and has
    adversely affected revenue and profits. Our tickets business
    also faces significant competition from a number of sources,
    including ticketing service companies (such as TicketMaster and
    Tickets.com), event organizers (such as professional sports
    teams and leagues), ticket brokers, and other online and offline
    ticket resellers, such as TicketsNow (which is owned by
    TicketMaster) and RazorGator. In addition, ticketing service
    companies and event organizers have recently begun to issue
    event tickets through paperless (electronic) ticketing systems
    that include restrictions on the transferability of such event
    tickets. To the extent that event tickets issued in this manner
    cannot be resold on our websites, or to the extent that we are
    otherwise unable to compete with these competitors, our tickets
    business could be harmed.


 



    We
    depend on key personnel.


 


    Our future performance depends substantially on the continued
    services of our senior management and other key personnel and
    our ability to retain and motivate them. We recently changed our
    Chief Executive Officer and the heads of all three of our
    business units. These changes may result in increased attrition
    of our personnel as new



    
    33



Table of Contents




    reporting relationships are established and as other companies
    may increasingly target our executives. We do not have long-term
    employment agreements with any of our key personnel, we do not
    maintain any “key person” life insurance policies, and
    many members of our senior management team have fully vested the
    vast majority of their in-the-money equity incentives. The loss
    of the services of any of our executive officers or other key
    employees could harm our business. Our new businesses all depend
    on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our future success
    also will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and
    motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, and
    customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is
    intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract,
    integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In making
    employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and
    high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the
    value of the equity awards they are to receive in connection
    with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make
    it more difficult to retain and motivate employees whose stock
    option strike prices are substantially above current market
    prices. Similarly, decreases in the number of unvested
    in-the-money stock options held by existing employees, whether
    because our stock price has declined, options have vested, or
    because the size of follow-on option grants has declined, may
    make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees.


 


    In the fourth quarter of 2008, we undertook a plan to reduce our
    global workforce to simplify and streamline our organization,
    improve our cost structure and strengthen our overall
    businesses. These changes have resulted in the recording of
    related accounting charges and could harm employee morale and
    productivity and be disruptive to our business.


 



    Problems
    with or price increases by third parties who provide services to
    us or to our users could harm our business.


 


    A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that
    benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and
    manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and
    interface with inventory management software, storefronts that
    help our users list items, caching services that make our sites
    load faster, and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on
    our platform, among others. In some cases we have contractual
    agreements with these companies that give us a direct financial
    interest in their success, while in other cases we have none.
    PayPal is dependent on the processing companies and banks that
    link PayPal to the credit card and bank clearing networks.
    Similarly, Bill Me Later relies heavily on third parties to
    operate its services, including merchant processors and payment
    gateways to process transactions. Financial, regulatory, or
    other problems that prevent these companies from providing
    services to us or our users could reduce the number of listings
    on our websites or make completing transactions or payments on
    our websites more difficult, and thereby harm our business.
    Price increases by companies that provide services to our users
    could also reduce the number of listings on our websites or make
    it more difficult for our users to complete transactions,
    thereby harming our business. For example, we believe recent
    changes in postal rates may have reduced listing volume on our
    sites in certain categories. Any security breach at one of these
    companies could also adversely affect our customers and harm our
    business.


 


    In addition, we have outsourced certain functions to third-party
    outside providers, including customer support and product
    development functions, which are critical to our operations. If
    our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our
    operations could be disrupted, which could result in user
    dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business, reputation
    and operating results. Although we generally have been able to
    renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with third
    parties who provide services to us on acceptable terms, there
    can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in
    the future, and there can be no assurance that third parties who
    provide services directly to our users will continue to do so at
    reasonable rates or at all. In addition, the current recession
    in the U.S. and a worldwide economic slowdown may impact
    the ability of our outside service providers to fulfill their
    obligations to us or our users.


 



    Customer
    complaints or negative publicity about our customer support or
    anti-fraud measures could diminish use of our
    services.


 


    Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer
    support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use
    of our services. Measures we sometimes take to combat risks of
    fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to
    damage relations with our customers or decrease activity on our
    sites by making our sites more difficult to use or restricting
    the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the
    need for



    
    34



Table of Contents




    prompt and accurate customer support to resolve irregularities
    and disputes. Effective customer support requires significant
    personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly,
    could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage
    or train our customer support representatives properly could
    compromise our ability to handle customer complaints
    effectively. If we do not handle customer complaints
    effectively, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our
    customers’ confidence.


 


    Because it is providing a financial service and operating in a
    more regulated environment, PayPal, unlike eBay, must provide
    telephone as well as email customer support and must resolve
    certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of
    PayPal’s program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money
    laundering, it may temporarily restrict the ability of customers
    to withdraw their funds if those funds or the customer’s
    account activity are identified by PayPal’s risk models as
    suspicious. PayPal has in the past received negative publicity
    with respect to its customer support and account restrictions,
    and has been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and
    state attorney general inquiries alleging, among other things,
    failure to resolve account restrictions promptly. If PayPal is
    unable to provide quality customer support operations in a
    cost-effective manner, PayPal’s users may have negative
    experiences, PayPal may receive additional negative publicity,
    its ability to attract new customers may be damaged, and it
    could become subject to additional litigation. As a result,
    current and future revenues could suffer, and its operating
    margins may decrease. In addition, negative publicity about, or
    negative experiences with, customer support for any of our
    businesses could cause our reputation to suffer or affect
    consumer confidence in our brands as a whole.


 



    Our
    industry is intensely competitive, and other companies or
    governmental agencies may allege that our behavior is
    anti-competitive.


 



    Marketplaces


 


    Marketplaces businesses currently or potentially compete with a
    number of companies providing both particular categories of
    goods and broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new,
    rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale
    of all types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the
    future. The barriers to entry into these channels are relatively
    low and current offline and new competitors, including small
    businesses who want to create and promote their own stores, can
    easily launch online sites at a nominal cost using commercially
    available software or partnering with any one of a number of
    successful ecommerce companies.


 


    Our broad-based competitors include the vast majority of
    traditional department, warehouse, discount, and general
    merchandise stores (as well as the online operations of these
    traditional retailers), emerging online retailers, online
    classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline
    and online home shopping networks. Among others, these include:
    Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC Penney, Costco, Office
    Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club, Amazon.com, Buy.com,
    AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC, and Home Shopping Network.


 


    A number of companies offer a variety of services that provide
    channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all
    sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites
    such as craigslist (in which we own a minority equity stake),
    Google Base, Microsoft Live Expo, and Oodle.com. Our classifieds
    websites, including Kijiji, Marktplaats, mobile.de, and Gumtree,
    offer classifieds listings in the U.S. and a variety of
    local international markets. In many markets in which it
    operates, including in the U.S., our classified platforms
    compete against more established online and offline classifieds
    platforms.


 


    In 2005, we acquired Shopping.com Ltd., an online shopping
    comparison site. Shopping.com competes with sites such as
    Buy.com, Google’s Product Search, Nextag.com,
    Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, and Yahoo! Product Search, which
    offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the
    Internet for specified products. Recent legal developments may
    affect the utility of shopping comparison sites if manufacturers
    begin requiring more uniformity in product pricing. In addition,
    sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels,
    including the acquisition of new customers by paying for
    search-related advertisements on search engine sites such as
    Google and Yahoo!. We use product search engines and paid search
    advertising to channel users to our sites, but these services
    also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping
    destinations.


 


    We also compete with many local, regional, and national
    specialty retailers and exchanges in each of the major
    categories of products offered on our websites. For example,
    category-specific competitors to offerings in our



    
    35



Table of Contents




    ‘Collectibles’ category include, among others,
    Artfact, Beckett, Bonhams & Butterfields, Bowers and
    Morena, Christie’s, Collectiblestoday.com, Collectors
    Universe, etsy, Franklin Mint, Go Collect, Heritage,
    Littletoncoin, Mastronet, Replacements.com, Ruby Lane, Shop At
    Home, Sotheby’s, Tias, U.S. Mint, U.S. Postal
    Service, antique and collectible dealers, antique and
    collectible fairs, auction houses, estate sales, flea markets
    and swap meets, independent coin and stamp dealers, and
    specialty retailers.


 


    Our international Marketplaces websites compete with similar
    online and offline channels in each of their vertical categories
    in most countries. In addition, they compete with general online
    ecommerce sites, such as Quelle and Otto in Germany, Leboncoin.
    fr and Price Minister in France, Tradus (recently acquired by
    Naspers) in Poland, Yahoo-Kimo in Taiwan, Lotte and Gmarket in
    South Korea, Trading Post, OZtion and Aussie Bidder in
    Australia, and Amazon in the United Kingdom and other countries.
    In some of these countries, there are online sites that have
    much larger customer bases and greater brand recognition than we
    do, and in certain of these jurisdictions there are competitors
    that may have a better understanding of local culture and
    commerce than we do.


 


    The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers;




 



     
        • 

    
    volume of transactions and price and selection of goods;




 



     
        • 

    
    customer service; and




 



     
        • 

    
    brand recognition.





 


    With respect to our online competition, additional competitive
    factors include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    community cohesion, interaction and size;




 



     
        • 

    
    website ease-of-use and accessibility;




 



     
        • 

    
    level of trust in the seller;




 



     
        • 

    
    system reliability;




 



     
        • 

    
    reliability of delivery and payment;




 



     
        • 

    
    level of service fees; and




 



     
        • 

    
    quality of search tools.





 


    Some current and potential competitors have longer operating
    histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition
    in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other online
    trading services may be acquired by, receive investments from,
    or enter into other commercial relationships with
    well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some
    of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to
    devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns,
    adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially
    more resources to website and systems development than we can.
    Some of our competitors have offered services for free and
    others may do this as well. We may be unable to compete
    successfully against current and future competitors. In
    addition, certain offline competitors may encourage
    manufacturers to limit or cease distribution of their products
    to dealers who sell through online channels such as eBay, or may
    attempt to use existing or future government regulation to
    prohibit or limit online commerce in certain categories of goods
    or services. The adoption by manufacturers or government
    authorities of policies or regulations discouraging the sales of
    goods or services over the Internet could force eBay users to
    stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased
    competition or anti- Internet distribution policies or
    regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of
    market share and diminished value of our brand. In order to
    respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from
    time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or
    acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to
    dissatisfaction among a number of our sellers, and which could
    harm our profitability.


 


    Conversely, other companies and government agencies have in the
    past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the
    antitrust or competition laws of the U.S. or other
    countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Such
    claims, even if without foundation, typically are very expensive
    to defend, involve negative publicity and diversion of
    management time and effort, and could result in significant
    judgments against us.



    
    36



Table of Contents




    In several jurisdictions, we have taken actions designed to
    improve the safety of transactions on our websites. Beginning in
    June 2008, we have required users in the UK to offer PayPal as a
    payment alternative on most transactions on our localized UK
    website, and since October 2008, we require sellers on eBay.com
    to accept one or more accepted payment methods (currently
    PayPal, credit or debit cards processed through Internet
    merchant accounts,
    and/or
    ProPay) and no longer allow any forms of paper payment,
    including checks and money orders, to be used in the
    U.S. for most categories of items. While these initiatives
    are intended to improve and make safer our users’ buying
    experience
    and/or
    increase activity on our sites, certain users may be negatively
    affected by or react negatively to these changes. We currently
    face inquiries from government regulators in various
    jurisdictions related to such actions. For example, the Reserve
    Bank of Australia is currently reviewing our policy requiring
    sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most
    transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding
    them from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting
    PayPal or other payment methods. We may face similar inquiries
    from other government regulators in the future. Any negative
    reaction to these changes by our users or government authorities
    could, among other things, force us to change our operating
    practices in ways that could harm our business, operating
    results and profitability. In addition, certain competitors may
    offer or continue to offer free shipping or other transaction
    related services, which could be impractical or inefficient for
    eBay sellers to match. New technologies may increase the
    competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer a
    lower cost service.


 


    Although we have established Internet traffic arrangements with
    several large online services and search engine companies, these
    arrangements may not be renewed on commercially reasonable terms
    or these companies may decide to promote competitive services.
    Even if these arrangements are renewed, they may not result in
    increased usage of our services. In addition, companies that
    control user access to transactions through network access,
    Internet browsers, or search engines, could promote our
    competitors, channel current or potential users to their
    vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their
    advertisers’ sites, attempt to restrict our access, or
    charge us substantial fees for inclusion. Search engines are
    increasingly becoming a starting point for online shopping, and
    as the costs of operating an online store decline, online
    sellers may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels,
    which could reduce the number and value of transactions these
    sellers conduct through our sites.


 



    PayPal


 


    The markets for PayPal’s product are intensely competitive
    and are subject to rapid technological change, including but not
    limited to: mobile payments, electronic funds transfer networks
    starting to allow Internet access, cross-border access to
    networks, creation of new networks, expansion of prepaid cards,
    and bill pay networks. PayPal competes with existing online and
    offline payment methods, including, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    credit card merchant processors that offer their services to
    online merchants, including American Express, Cardservice
    International, Chase Paymentech, First Data, and Wells Fargo;
    and payment gateways, including CyberSource and Authorize.net
    (which has merged with CyberSource);




 



     
        • 

    
    money remitters such as MoneyGram and Western Union;




 



     
        • 

    
    bill payment services, including CheckFree;




 



     
        • 

    
    processors that provide online merchants the ability to offer
    their customers the option of paying for purchases from their
    bank account, including Certegy, eBillMe, Revolution Money and
    TeleCheck, a subsidiary of First Data, or to pay on credit;




 



     
        • 

    
    providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit
    cards, checks, money orders, and Automated Clearing House
    transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including
    VisaBuxx, NetSpend and GreenDot;




 



     
        • 

    
    mobile payments, including Obopay, TextPayMe (a subsidiary of
    Amazon), Crandy, LUUP and Payforit;




 



     
        • 

    
    Amazon Payments, which offers online merchants the ability to
    accept credit card- and bank-funded payments from Amazon’s
    base of online customers on the merchant’s own website; and;




 



     
        • 

    
    Google Checkout, which enables the online payment of merchants
    using credit cards.






    
    37



Table of Contents



 


    Some of these competitors have longer operating histories,
    significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer
    service and other resources, greater name recognition, or a
    larger base of customers in affiliated businesses than PayPal.
    PayPal’s competitors may respond to new or emerging
    technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and
    more effectively than PayPal. Some of these competitors may also
    be subject to lesser licensing, anti-money laundering, and other
    regulatory requirements than PayPal, which is subject to
    additional regulations based on its licensure as a bank in
    Luxembourg. They may devote greater resources to the
    development, promotion, and sale of products and services than
    PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example, Google
    Checkout provided free payment processing through
    February 1, 2008, and currently offers free payments
    processing on transactions in an amount proportionate to certain
    advertising spending with Google. Competing services tied to
    established banks and other financial institutions may offer
    greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence in
    the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal.


 


    Overseas, PayPal faces competition from similar channels and
    payment methods. In each country, numerous banks provide
    standard online credit card acquiring and processing services,
    and these banks typically have leading market share. In
    addition, PayPal faces competition from Visa’s Visa Direct,
    MasterCard’s MoneySend, Royal Bank of Scotland’s World
    Pay and ClickandBuy in the EU, NOCHEX, Moneybookers, NETeller
    and FirePay in the United Kingdom, CertaPay and HyperWallet in
    Canada, Paymate and BPay in Australia, Alipay, YeePay and
    99 Bill in China and Inicis in South Korea. In addition, in
    certain countries, such as Germany and Australia, electronic
    funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online
    and offline transactions. As in the U.S., established banks and
    other financial institutions that do not currently offer online
    payments could quickly and easily develop such a service.


 


    Some of PayPal’s competitors, such as Wells Fargo, First
    Data, American Express, and Royal Bank of Scotland, also provide
    processing or foreign exchange services to PayPal. If PayPal
    were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers,
    either alone or through a commercial alliance or an acquisition,
    these processing and foreign exchange relationships could be
    negatively affected, or these competitors and other processors
    could make it more difficult for PayPal to deliver its services.


 



    Skype


 


    The market for Skype’s products is also intensely
    competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. We
    expect Skype’s various communications competitors,
    including, for example, the providers of online communications
    products and telecommunications operators, to continue to
    improve the performance of their current products and introduce
    new products, software, services and technologies. Many
    telecommunications firms offer “bundled” services,
    where a group of services that may include cable or satellite
    television, internet services (e.g., cable modem or DSL), and
    telecommunications are offered for a single monthly price. If
    Skype’s competitors successfully introduce new products,
    offer “bundled” services or enhance their existing
    products, this could reduce the market for Skype’s
    products, increase price competition, or make Skype’s
    products obsolete, which could lower Skype’s adoption
    rates, decrease its ability to attract new users or cause its
    current users to migrate to a competing company.


 


    Additionally, several of Skype’s current and potential
    competitors have longer operating histories, are substantially
    larger, and have greater financial, marketing, technical, and
    other resources. Some also have greater name recognition and a
    larger installed base of customers than Skype has.


 



    Our
    business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our
    users to spend less time on our websites, including seasonal
    factors, national events and increased usage of other
    websites.


 


    Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of
    usage of our websites could adversely affect our business. We
    would therefore be adversely affected by geopolitical events
    such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and
    natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Similarly,
    our results of operations historically have been seasonal
    because many of our users reduce their activities on our
    websites with the onset of good weather during the summer
    months, and on and around national holidays. In addition,
    increased usage of social networking



    
    38



Table of Contents




    or other entertainment websites may decrease the amount of time
    users spend on our websites, which could adversely affect our
    financial results.


 



    Our
    failure to cost-effectively manage certain aspects of our
    business could harm us.


 


    We have expanded our headcount, facilities, and infrastructure
    in the U.S. and internationally, and anticipate that
    further expansion in certain areas will be required as we
    continue to expand into new lines of business and geographic
    areas. This expansion has placed, and we expect it will continue
    to place, a significant strain on our management, operational,
    and financial resources. The areas that are put under strain by
    our growth include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Website Usability.  User activity rates on our
    websites depend in part on the quality of our users’
    experiences on those sites. The rapid growth in the number and
    complexity of products and features on our sites has
    occasionally caused users to become confused or overwhelmed or
    has otherwise impaired users’ experiences on those sites.
    We are in the process of making numerous improvements to our
    eBay websites, including an attempt to improve the user
    experience on those websites. These attempts at improvement
    could fail, or could decrease activity among users who had grown
    used to or preferred the existing experience on our sites. Any
    impairment of customer satisfaction as a result of site
    usability issues could lead to a loss of customers or impair our
    ability to add customers, either of which would harm our
    business.




 



     
        • 

    
    Website Stability.  We must constantly add new
    hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to
    accommodate the increased use of our and our subsidiaries’
    websites and the new products and features we regularly
    introduce. This upgrade process is expensive, and the increased
    complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple
    platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of
    additional enhancements. Failure to upgrade our technology,
    features, transaction processing systems, security
    infrastructure, or network infrastructure to accommodate
    increased traffic or transaction volume could harm our business.
    Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system
    disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of
    customer support, impaired quality of users’ experiences of
    our services, impaired quality of services for third-party
    application developers using our externally accessible
    Application Programming Interface, or API, and delays in
    reporting accurate financial information. We may be unable to
    effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or
    smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies
    or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do
    so could result in problems on our sites. Further, steps to
    increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are
    expensive, reduce our margins, and may not be successful in
    reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime.




 



     
        • 

    
    Customer Account Billing.  Our revenues depend
    on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow
    our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the
    increasing number of transactions that must be billed on any of
    our websites would harm our business and our ability to collect
    revenue.




 



     
        • 

    
    Customer Support.  We seek to become more
    efficient in providing our customer support operations. We
    intend to provide an increased level of support (including an
    increasing amount of telephone support) in a cost-effective
    manner. If we are unable to provide customer support in a
    cost-effective manner, users of our websites may have negative
    experiences, current and future revenues could suffer, our costs
    may increase and our operating margins may decrease.





 


    We must continue to effectively hire, train, and manage new
    employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are
    unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating
    these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining
    our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage
    the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will
    need to improve our transaction processing, operational and
    financial systems, procedures, and controls. This is a special
    challenge as we acquire new operations with different systems.
    Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and
    controls may not be adequate to support our future operations.
    Any capital investments that we may make will increase our cost
    base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any
    future revenue shortfalls by expense reductions in the short
    term.



    
    39



Table of Contents





    We may
    have exposure to greater than anticipated tax
    liabilities.


 


    The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes
    and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant
    judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where
    the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other
    multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple
    U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our
    operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination
    of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by
    applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are
    currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and
    reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including
    with respect to our tax structure. Any adverse outcome of any
    such audit or review could have a negative effect on our
    business, operating results and financial condition, and the
    ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our
    financial statements and may materially affect our financial
    results in the period or periods for which such determination is
    made. While we have take reserves based on assumptions and
    estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such
    eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient in
    the event that any taxing authority is successful in asserting
    tax positions that are contrary to our positions.


 



    We
    depend on the continued growth of online commerce and
    communications.


 


    The business of selling goods over the Internet, particularly
    through online trading, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns
    about fraud, privacy, and other problems may discourage
    additional consumers from adopting the Internet as a medium of
    commerce. In countries such as the U.S., Germany and the U.K.,
    where our services and online commerce generally have been
    available for some time and the level of market penetration of
    our services is high, acquiring new users for our services may
    be more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. In
    order to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire
    consumers who historically have used traditional means of
    commerce to purchase goods and may prefer Internet analogues to
    such traditional retail means to our offerings, such as the
    retailer’s own website. If these consumers prove to be less
    active than our earlier users, and we are unable to gain
    efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of
    acquiring new customers, our business could be adversely
    impacted.


 



    Our
    business depends on the development and maintenance of the
    Internet infrastructure.


 


    The success of our services will depend largely on the
    development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This
    includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the
    necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely
    development of complementary products, for providing reliable
    Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and
    is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the
    numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet
    infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In
    addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth
    requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,”
    “worms,” malware and similar programs may harm the
    performance of the Internet. The backbone computers of the
    Internet have been the targets of such programs. The Internet
    has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a
    result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could
    face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays
    could reduce the level of Internet usage generally as well as
    the level of usage of our services.


 



    We may
    be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property
    rights adequately.


 


    We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, patents,
    domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets as critical to our
    success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property
    rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as
    well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on
    contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in
    products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and
    invention assignment agreements with our employees and
    contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with
    whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and
    disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual
    arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our
    intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our
    technology or deter independent development of similar
    technologies by others. We pursue the registration of our domain
    names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and
    internationally. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain
    name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is very expensive
    to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our
    trademarks, patents, and domain names in an increasing number of
    jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be
    successful in every location. For example, Skype is in the



    
    40



Table of Contents




    process of applying to register the Skype name as a trademark
    worldwide. In the EU, Skype’s application is being opposed.
    If these oppositions to Skype’s applications were to be
    successful, Skype’s ability to protect its brand against
    third-party infringers would be compromised. We have licensed in
    the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our
    proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material,
    to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the
    value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation.


 



    We are
    subject to the risks of owning real property.


 


    We own real property, including land and buildings related to
    our operations. We have little experience in managing real
    property. Ownership of this property subjects us to risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs
    associated with fixing any environmental problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to
    interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhoods in which the
    properties are located, or other factors;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply
    with zoning, seismic, disability act, or other
    requirements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    possible disputes with tenants, neighboring owners, or others.





 



    Some
    anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common
    stock.


 


    Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to
    10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the
    preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any
    further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the
    holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the
    holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.
    Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws
    could have the effect of making it more difficult for a
    potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding
    voting stock. These include provisions that provide for a
    classified board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking
    action by written consent and restrict the ability of
    stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to
    provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any
    business combination with any interested stockholder for a
    period of three years from the date the person became an
    interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This
    restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a
    change of control.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B