Item 1A: Risk Factors,” as well as
    our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the
    other financial information appearing elsewhere in this report
    and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, or the SEC. We assume no obligation to update any
    forward-looking statements.


 



    ITEM 1:  BUSINESS


 



    Overview


 


    eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in September 1995
    and was incorporated in California in May 1996. In April 1998,
    we reincorporated in Delaware and in September 1998 we completed
    the initial public offering of our common stock. Our principal
    executive offices are located at 2145 Hamilton Avenue,
    San Jose, California 95125, and our telephone number is
    (408) 376-7400.
    When we refer to “we,” “our” or
    “eBay” in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its
    California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated
    subsidiaries. When we refer to “eBay.com” we mean the
    online marketplace located at www.ebay.com and its
    localized counterparts. When we refer to “PayPal” we
    mean the online payments platform located at
    www.paypal.com.  When we refer to
    “Skype” we mean the Voice over Internet Protocol, or
    VoIP, offerings provided by our subsidiary Skype Technologies
    S.A.


 


    Our purpose is to pioneer new communities around the world built
    on commerce, sustained by trust and inspired by opportunity. To
    achieve our purpose, we operate three primary business segments:
    Marketplaces, Payments and Communications. We provide online
    marketplaces for the sale of goods and services, online payments
    services and online communication offerings to a diverse
    community of individuals and businesses. Our Marketplaces
    segment enables online commerce through a variety of platforms,
    including the traditional eBay.com platform and our other online
    platforms, such as Shopping.com, classifieds websites and
    Rent.com. The wide array of websites that comprise our
    Marketplaces segment bring together millions of buyers and
    sellers every day on a local, national and international basis.
    Our Payments segment, which consists of PayPal, enables
    individuals and businesses to securely, easily and quickly send
    and receive payments online. Our Communications segment, which
    consists of Skype, enables VoIP calls between Skype users, and
    also provides Skype users low-cost connectivity to traditional
    fixed-line and mobile telephones.


 



    Marketplaces


 


    Our Marketplaces segment is comprised of online commerce
    platforms that enable a global community of buyers and sellers
    to interact and trade with one another. Our goal is to create,
    maintain, and expand the functionality, safety,
    ease-of-use
    and reliability of our online commerce platforms while, at the
    same time, supporting the growth and success of our community of
    users. On any given day, there are more than a hundred million
    items available through auction-style and fixed-price trading.


 



    Marketplaces
    Value Proposition


 


    We seek to attract buyers and sellers to our community by
    offering:


 




     	
     	
     	




    Buyers



 



    Sellers




 





    • Selection
    



 


    • Access to broad markets
    





    • Value
    



 


    • Cost effective
    marketing and distribution
    





    • Convenience
    



 


    • Ability to maximize
    selling prices
    





    • Entertainment
    



 


    • Opportunity to
    increase sales
    









    
    1



Table of Contents




    We believe our Marketplaces segment websites make inefficient
    markets more efficient because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our global community of users can easily and inexpensively
    communicate, exchange information and complete transactions;



 


     
        • 

    
    Our Marketplaces include more than a hundred million items,
    creating a wide variety and selection of goods;



 


     
        • 

    
    We bring buyers and sellers together for lower fees than
    traditional intermediaries; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Our Marketplaces provide for efficient information exchange.





 


    In particular, large markets with broad buyer and seller bases,
    wide product ranges, and moderate shipping costs have been
    successful on our Marketplaces platforms. Generally speaking,
    our marketplaces are most effective, relative to available
    alternatives, at addressing markets of new and scarce goods,
    end-of-life
    products and used and vintage items.


 



    Global
    Community of Buyers and Sellers


 


    We have aggregated a significant number of buyers, sellers, and
    items listed for sale, which, in turn, has resulted in a vibrant
    online commerce environment. Our sellers generally enjoy high
    conversion rates and our buyers enjoy an extensive selection of
    broadly-priced goods and services. Key components of our
    community philosophy are maintaining honest and open
    marketplaces and treating individual users with respect. We seek
    to maintain the satisfaction and loyalty of our buyers and
    sellers by offering a variety of community and support features,
    such as announcement and bulletin boards, customer support
    boards and personal pages, as well as other topical or
    category-specific information exchanges. By applying a
    consistent set of policies to our community, we seek to create a
    level playing field that lets individuals and businesses of all
    types and sizes access broad markets and compete equally.


 


    Our success has resulted largely from the growth of our
    community of confirmed registered users, which has increased in
    size from approximately two million at the end of 1998 to
    approximately 222 million as of  December 31, 2006. As
    of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 82 million
    active users on the eBay.com platforms, compared to
    approximately 72 million at the end of 2005. We define an
    active user as any user who bid on, bought, or listed an item
    during the most recent
    12-month
    period.


 



    Marketplaces
    Platforms


 


    Our Marketplaces platforms are fully automated, topically
    arranged, and
    easy-to-use
    online services that seek to provide availability 24 hours
    a day, seven days a week, enabling sellers to list items for
    sale and buyers to bid for and purchase items of interest, and
    all users to browse through listed items from any place in the
    world at any time. The platforms include software tools and
    services, available either for no charge or for a fee, that
    allow buyers and sellers to trade with one another more easily
    and efficiently. The Marketplaces platforms consist of our core
    online commerce platform, eBay.com, and adjacent platforms
    consisting of Shopping.com, our classifieds websites and
    Rent.com. Marketplaces earns revenue from listing, feature and
    final value fees paid by sellers, lead referral fees and
    advertising fees.


 



    eBay.com
    Platform


 


    Our Marketplaces core platform, eBay.com, includes our
    traditional auction format, fixed price format and eBay Stores.
    We offer the core platform on localized sites in 24 countries.


 



    Auction
    Listing Format


 


    At the core of our Marketplaces platform are our traditional
    auction format listings, in which a seller will select a minimum
    price for opening bids, with the option to set a reserve price
    for the item, which is the minimum price at which the seller is
    willing to sell the item. A seller with appropriate feedback
    ratings can also sell in a “Multiple
    Item Auction” format, which allows a seller to sell
    multiple identical items to the highest bidders.



    
    2



Table of Contents



 



    Fixed
    Price Listing Format


 


    Our fixed price format allows for a faster selling and buying
    experience as opposed to waiting for the auction period to
    expire. Sellers with appropriate feedback ratings can choose to
    use the Buy-It-Now feature at the time of the listing, which
    allows sellers to name a price at which they would be willing to
    sell the item to any buyer. Our Half.com subsidiary also
    provides a fixed price, person-to person
    e-commerce
    website that allows people to buy and sell previously owned
    books, movies, music and games at discounted prices. In 2006,
    all fixed priced trading accounted for approximately 36% of
    eBay’s gross merchandise volume, or GMV, which is the total
    value of all successfully closed listings on eBay.com’s
    trading platforms.


 



    eBay
    Stores


 


    eBay Stores enables sellers to show all of their listings and to
    describe their respective businesses through customized pages.
    eBay Stores provide useful tools for sellers to build, manage,
    promote, and track their business. “Store Inventory
    Format” listings allow sellers to list items at a lower
    insertion fee and higher final value fee than regular auction
    and fixed price listings, for a minimum 30-day listing duration.
    As of December 31, 2006, there were nearly 600,000 online
    storefronts established by users in locations around the world.


 



    Other
    Marketplaces Platforms


 



    Shopping.com


 


    Shopping.com is a comparison shopping website that allows
    shoppers to compare millions of products from thousands of
    stores and helps merchants increase their sales. Shopping.com
    offers one of the largest product catalogs on the
    Internet — searchable by thousands of
    attributes — along with a consumer review service
    through Epinions.com, which helps users make informed buying
    decisions.


 



    Classifieds
    Websites


 


    Our classifieds websites are available in hundreds of cities and
    regions around the world and are designed to help people meet,
    share ideas and trade on a local level. Our classifieds websites
    include Kijiji, Gumtree.com, LoQUo.com, Intoko, Marktplaats.nl
    and mobile.de. In addition, we have a minority equity investment
    in craigslist, Inc., which operates the craigslist
    classifieds websites around the world.


 



    Rent.com


 


    Rent.com is a leading U.S. Internet listing website in the
    apartment and rental housing industry. The website is designed
    as a more effective means of bringing apartments seekers and
    apartment managers together.


 



    Key
    Services for Buyers and Sellers


 


    We have developed a number of features in our eBay.com platform
    in the areas of Trust and Safety, Customer Support and
    Value-Added Tools and Services, as well as a Loyalty Program.
    These features are designed to make users more comfortable
    dealing with unknown trading partners and completing commerce
    transactions on the Internet.


 



    Trust and
    Safety


 


    Feedback Forum:  Our Feedback Forum encourages
    each user to provide comments on other users with whom he or she
    trades and lets every user view other users’ profiles,
    which include feedback ratings and comments by other users.
    Every registered user has a feedback profile that may contain
    compliments, criticisms and other comments by users who have
    conducted business with that person. The Feedback Forum requires
    feedback to be related to specific transactions and provides an
    easy tool for users to match specific transactions with the user
    names of their trading partners. This information is recorded in
    a profile that includes a feedback rating for the person with
    feedback sorted according to whether it was given over the past
    month, six months, or twelve months. Users who develop positive
    reputations have color-coded star symbols displayed next to
    their user names to indicate the number of positive feedback
    ratings they have received. The Feedback Forum has several
    automated features



    
    3



Table of Contents




    designed to detect and prevent some forms of abuse, such as a
    user leaving positive feedback about himself or herself through
    multiple accounts.


 


    SafeHarbor Program:  We also offer the
    SafeHarbor program, which provides guidelines for trading,
    provides information to resolve user disputes and responds to
    reports of misuse of the eBay service. eBay’s SafeHarbor
    staff investigates users’ complaints of possible misuse of
    the eBay service and takes appropriate action, including issuing
    warnings to users, ending and removing listings, or suspending
    users from bidding on or listing items for sale. The complaints
    the SafeHarbor staff investigates include various forms of bid
    manipulation, malicious posting of negative feedback and posting
    of illegal items for sale.


 


    Verified Rights Owner (VeRO) Program:  The
    Verified Rights Owner (VeRO) Program lets intellectual property
    rights owners request the removal of listings that offer items
    or contain materials that infringe on their rights. This helps
    protect community members from purchasing items that may be
    counterfeit or otherwise unauthorized.


 



    Customer
    Support


 


    We devote resources to providing personalized, accurate and
    timely support services to our community of users. Buyers and
    sellers can contact us through a variety of means, including
    email, online text chat and, in certain circumstances,
    telephone. We are focusing our resources on increasing our
    accessibility and capacity, expanding our category-specific
    support, extending our online self-help features, and improving
    our systems and processes to allow us to provide the most
    efficient and effective support possible.


 



    Value-Added
    Tools and Services


 


    eBay users have access to a variety of “pre-trade” and
    “post-trade” tools and services to enhance their user
    experience and to make trading faster, easier and safer for
    them. “Pre-trade” tools and services are intended to
    simplify the listing process. “Post-trade” tools and
    services are designed to make transactions easier and more
    convenient to complete.


 


    These tools and services include: Turbo Lister, eBay
    Blackthorne, ProStores, Selling Manager and Selling Manager Pro,
    which help automate the selling process; Picture Services, which
    enables sellers to include pictures in their listings; the
    Shipping Calculator, which makes it easier for buyers and
    sellers to calculate shipping costs; Shipping Labels, which
    allows sellers to print certain postage and UPS labels; Shipment
    Tracking, which enables sellers to track their shipped packages;
    the eBay Toolbar, which helps eBay users stay connected with
    eBay wherever they are on the Internet; eBay Sales Reports and
    eBay Sales Reports Plus, which provide sales and fee information
    to sellers; eBay Market Research, which enables sellers to
    analyze sales in categories across the site; Reviews and Guides,
    which assists shoppers in making more informed choices; and
    PayPal, which facilitates the online exchange of funds. We
    currently provide these services directly or through contractual
    arrangements with third parties.


 



    Loyalty
    Program


 


    PowerSeller program:  PowerSellers are
    eBay’s top sellers who have sustained a consistent high
    volume of monthly sales and who have a high level of positive
    feedback. Members of the PowerSeller program get a range of
    special benefits, including prioritized customer support,
    promotional offers, eBay promotional merchandise, advanced
    selling education, opportunities to participate in research, and
    other special rewards. The PowerSeller program is free of charge
    and a special PowerSeller icon is located next to the
    seller’s user name if the seller qualifies for the program.


 



    Marketplaces
    Growth Strategy


 


    We intend to achieve our mission of creating the world’s
    leading
    e-commerce
    franchise by building upon our core Marketplaces business and
    building our adjacent businesses.


 


    We will continue to grow our core Marketplaces business by
    enhancing our products, improving Trust and Safety and extending
    our product offerings into new formats, categories and
    geographies. Our product



    
    4



Table of Contents




    enhancements are focused on improving the user experience to
    increase buyer satisfaction and activity levels which we believe
    will improve our conversion rates and, in turn, lead to higher
    GMV. For example, in 2006, we introduced eBay Express, a
    specialty destination site for buyers looking to purchase new
    merchandise at fixed prices. eBay Express targets existing
    registered users in an effort to increase their purchasing
    activity. Improvements to our Trust and Safety policies are
    designed to ensure that buyers have a safe trading experience to
    drive repeat business.


 


    Another element of our growth strategy is to build adjacent
    businesses. These adjacencies, which offer opportunities for
    growth beyond our core GMV businesses, include new formats and
    new monetization models. We will continue to grow our
    alternative format businesses — Shopping.com and our
    classifieds websites. In addition, we intend to expand our
    monetization models through advertising partnerships and the
    development of a
    pay-per-call
    platform.


 



    Payments


 


    Our global payments platform, PayPal, enables any individual or
    business with an email address to securely, easily and quickly
    send and receive payments online. We believe our global payments
    platform makes online commerce more efficient compared to
    traditional payment methods such as checks, money orders, and
    credit cards via merchant accounts. These traditional payment
    methods present various obstacles to the online commerce
    experience, including lengthy processing time, inconvenience,
    and high costs. PayPal delivers a product well-suited for all
    online merchants and individuals by allowing them to send and
    receive online payments securely, conveniently and
    cost-effectively. The PayPal network builds on the existing
    financial infrastructure of bank accounts and credit cards to
    create a global, real-time payment solution.


 



    PayPal
    Value Proposition


 


    Providing more efficient and effective payment methods is
    essential to creating a faster, easier and safer online commerce
    experience. Traditional payment methods such as checks, money
    orders and credit cards processed through merchant accounts, all
    present various obstacles to the online commerce experience,
    including lengthy processing time, inconvenience and high costs.
    Our PayPal online payments solution allows its account holders,
    as well as users of other online businesses, to pay for their
    transactions securely, easily and quickly.


 



    Buyer
    Value Proposition


 


    PayPal enables buyers to pay merchants without sharing their
    sensitive financial information with them. To make payments,
    buyers need to disclose only their email addresses to
    recipients. Many buyers wary of disclosing financial information
    online find this high level of personal privacy attractive.
    Buyers also benefit from PayPal’s buyer protection program.


 



    Seller
    Value Proposition


 


    PayPal offers online merchants an
    all-in-one
    payment processing solution that is less expensive than most
    merchant accounts, offers industry-leading fraud prevention, and
    enables merchants to conduct business with approximately
    133 million PayPal customer accounts in over 100 markets.
    PayPal also offers merchants the ability to maintain a direct
    relationship with their customers.


 


    A merchant can open a PayPal account and begin accepting credit
    card payments within a few minutes. Merchants are approved
    instantly for a PayPal account, and do not need to provide a
    personal guaranty, acquire any specialized hardware, prepare an
    application, contact a payment gateway or encrypt customer data.
    Furthermore, PayPal charges lower transaction fees than most
    merchant accounts, and charges no setup fees and no recurring
    monthly fees.


 


    The account-based nature of PayPal’s network helps us to
    detect and prevent fraud when funds enter the PayPal network, as
    funds move within the network, and when they leave. Sellers can
    also reduce the risk of transaction losses due to unauthorized
    credit card use and fraudulent chargebacks, if they comply with
    PayPal’s Seller Protection Policy.



    
    5



Table of Contents



 



    PayPal
    Overview


 



    Joining
    the Network


 


    PayPal offers three types of accounts: Personal, Business, and
    Premier. A new account holder typically opens an account to send
    money for an eBay purchase or a purchase on another website, a
    payment for services rendered, or for a payment to an individual
    in lieu of cash. Allowing new account holders to join the
    network when they make or receive payments encourages
    PayPal’s natural, user-driven growth. PayPal’s account
    sign-up
    process asks each new account holder to provide PayPal his or
    her name, street address, phone number, and email address. The
    account holder’s email address serves as the unique account
    identifier. PayPal also offers customers who sell on their own
    websites the ability to accept credit card payments from buyers
    without requiring the buyer to open a PayPal account.


 


    Buyers make payments at the PayPal website, at an item listing
    on eBay.com or another online business or platform where the
    seller has integrated PayPal’s Instant Purchase Feature, or
    at the sites of merchants that have integrated PayPal’s
    Website Payments feature. To make a payment at PayPal’s
    website, a buyer logs in to his or her account and enters the
    recipient’s email address and the amount of the payment. To
    make a payment through Instant Purchase or Website Payments, a
    buyer selects an item for purchase, confirms the payment
    information and enters his or her email address and password to
    authorize the payment. PayPal debits the money from the
    buyer’s PayPal balance, credit card, or bank account and
    credits it to the recipient’s PayPal balance. In the case
    of an eCheck payment, the transaction is held until the funds
    have cleared the sender’s bank, which typically takes three
    to five business days. In turn, the recipient can make payments
    to others or withdraw his or her funds at any time via check (in
    the U.S.), electronic funds transfer, or via a PayPal-branded
    debit card (which is only available to U.S. users).


 


    PayPal earns revenues in five ways. First, PayPal earns
    transaction fees when a Business or Premier account receives a
    payment. Second, PayPal earns a foreign exchange fee when an
    account holder converts a balance from one currency to another.
    Third, PayPal may earn fees when a user withdraws money to a
    non-U.S. bank
    account, depending on the amount of the withdrawal. Fourth,
    PayPal earns a return on certain customer balances. Finally,
    PayPal may earn ancillary revenues from a suite of financial
    products, including the PayPal-branded debit card, the
    PayPal-branded credit card and the PayPal Buyer Credit offering.


 


    We incur funding costs on payments at varying levels based on
    the source of the payment, with costs associated with credit
    card and debit card funded payments being significantly higher
    than bank account or balance-funded payments. U.S. account
    holders who choose to maintain PayPal balances in
    U.S. dollars have the ability to sweep balances into the
    PayPal Money Market Fund. This Money Market Fund, which is
    invested in a portfolio managed by Barclays Global
    Fund Advisors, bore a current compound annual yield of
    5.02% as of January 3, 2007.


 



    Verification
    of Account Holders


 


    To fund payments from their bank accounts in the United States,
    account holders must first become verified by PayPal. The
    primary method for verification is our Random Deposit technique.
    Under this technique, PayPal makes two deposits ranging from 1
    to 99 cents to the account holder’s bank account. To verify
    ownership of the account, the account holder then enters the two
    amounts as a four-digit code at the PayPal website. In addition
    to allowing funding through bank accounts, verification also
    removes some spending limits on account holders’ accounts
    and gives them reputational advantages when transacting with
    other members of the PayPal community.


 



    Withdrawing
    Money


 


    Each account holder in the U.S. and, as of December 31,
    2006, in 34 other markets, may withdraw money from his or her
    PayPal account through an electronic fund transfer to his or her
    bank account or, in the U.S., by a mailed check from PayPal.
    Automated Clearing House, or ACH, withdrawals may take three to
    five business days to arrive in the account holder’s bank
    account, depending on the bank. However, everyone who can
    receive funds can withdraw to a U.S. bank account. Mailed
    checks may take one to two weeks to arrive, and PayPal charges
    $1.50 per check. Qualifying PayPal business users in the
    U.S. can receive a PayPal ATM/debit card, which provides
    instant liquidity to their PayPal account balances. ATM/debit
    cardholders can withdraw cash, for a $1.00 fee per



    
    6



Table of Contents




    transaction, from any ATM connected to the Cirrus or Maestro
    networks and can make purchases at any merchant accepting
    MasterCard.


 



    PayPal’s
    Trust and Safety Programs


 


    We have developed a number of PayPal trust and safety programs,
    including PayPal’s Seller Protection and Buyer Protection
    Programs. These programs provide additional protection to
    certain account holders who pay, or receive payment, for their
    transactions through PayPal. PayPal’s Seller Protection
    Program covers sellers for up to $5,000 per year on certain
    reversed transactions. PayPal’s Buyer Protection Program
    covers qualified purchases on eBay.com for up to $2,000 coverage
    at no cost (with different terms for transactions denominated in
    non-U.S. currencies).
    In addition, our Fraud Investigation Team focuses on identifying
    and preventing fraud before it occurs, detecting fraud in
    process, mitigating loss if fraud does occur and delivering
    information to law enforcement around the world to better combat
    online fraud.


 



    PayPal
    Growth Strategy


 


    We seek to extend our leading position and become the online
    payment network of choice around the world. To establish PayPal
    as the global payment standard in online payments, we intend to
    focus on, among other things, increased adoption of PayPal on
    Marketplaces, expansion of PayPal’s Merchant Services,
    which are services for merchants who sell through their own
    websites, and further development of online financial products.


 



    Marketplaces


 


    PayPal’s services are integrated into the checkout flow of
    the eBay.com platform in our key markets, including the U.S.,
    Germany, the U.K. and Canada. In 2006, eBay.com generated more
    than $52 billion in GMV. PayPal, in turn, generated over
    $24 billion of total payment volume from eBay.com
    transactions.


 


    We intend to increase PayPal’s penetration of GMV on the
    eBay.com platform through product innovation, integrate PayPal
    onto the other platforms within our Marketplaces segment and
    expand PayPal’s global presence. We intend to strengthen
    PayPal’s penetration into the payments area on the
    Marketplaces platforms by continuing to integrate with eBay
    listings and new formats, focus on buyer protection programs and
    adding product features important to the Marketplaces community.
    Our expansion into an increased number of international markets
    and currencies makes cross-border transactions easier and more
    efficient, benefiting both Marketplaces and PayPal.


 



    Merchant
    Services


 


    We intend to continue to market our global payments solution to
    spur our growth as a payment solution for sole proprietors and
    small, medium, and large businesses. Our Merchant Services
    business offers a differentiated product solution for each
    merchant segment — sole proprietor, small and medium
    businesses, and large merchants — while providing a
    cost-effective and safe payment solution in all segments.


 


    We intend to grow our global Merchant Services business by
    enhancing our product offering, leveraging our multiple sales
    channels to expand our network of merchants and developing our
    global footprint.


 



    Financial
    Products


 


    We will continue to identify transactions and markets not served
    adequately by existing payment systems and seek to develop
    product features that improve upon those legacy systems. In
    addition, we will seek to expand the breadth of products and
    services available to our account holders and have begun
    offering financial products like the PayPal branded debit card,
    PayPal branded credit card and the PayPal Buyer Credit Offering.
    Furthermore, we are developing a mobile payments solution and
    launched Go Mobile with PayPal during 2006 as a foundation for
    our mobile platform.


 



    Communications


 


    We added the Communications segment upon our acquisition of
    Skype in October 2005. Skype is a Luxembourg-based company that
    was established in 2003.



    
    7



Table of Contents



 



    Skype
    Value Proposition


 


    Our vision is to give our users the ability to communicate
    freely at home, at work and on the move. Skype offers a simple,
    convenient and cost-effective way for people anywhere in the
    world to call landlines and mobile phones over the Internet.
    People around the world using Skype can make free voice and
    video calls to anyone else on Skype, as well as send instant
    messages, transfer files and participate in Skypecasts, which
    are live, moderated conversations with up to 100 people.


 



    Skype
    Overview


 


    Skype is one of the world’s fastest-growing Internet
    communication products, providing free and unlimited voice,
    video and instant messaging conversations between people using
    the Skype software. Skype earns revenues from premium features
    such as making and receiving calls to and from landline and
    mobile phones, voicemail, call forwarding and personalization
    including ringtones and avatars. Skype is available in
    28 languages.


 



    User
    Base


 


    As of December 31, 2006, Skype had approximately
    171 million registered users and is used in almost every
    country around the world. The Skype software is easy to download
    and install, and enables people to make free voice and video
    calls to any other person on Skype, as well as send instant
    messages and transfer files.


 


    In addition to free calls to other registered Skype users,
    people can also take advantage of Skype’s premium features,
    including SkypeOut (calls from Skype to traditional landlines or
    mobile phones), SkypeIn (a number which can be called from a
    normal phone anywhere in the world) and Skype Voicemail (takes
    calls when users are busy or offline).


 


    In 2006, we launched several promotions globally as well as
    locally, and they drove significant user growth in registered
    users, especially in Asia. We intend to migrate users to higher
    value premium offerings.


 



    Ecosystem


 


    Skype has a large and expanding ecosystem of hardware and
    software products created by third parties that extend, enable
    or improve the experience of using Skype. We are focused on
    further developing this ecosystem of more than 50 hardware
    partners and more than 150 Skype Certified devices to broaden
    the appeal of Skype to a wider group of people who want to use
    Skype away from the computer, no matter where they happen to be.
    This is especially true for people who want to take advantage of
    the mobile Skype experience, which has already been downloaded
    more than five million times and is available on more than 120
    different models of mobile devices.


 



    Skype
    Growth Strategy


 


    To expand upon Skype’s position as a leading, global
    Internet communications company, we will continue to focus on
    new user acquisition and conversion of users to premium
    offerings, while further developing around two broad areas of
    Skype’s business: existing telephony products and new
    e-commerce
    opportunities. Part of our strategy to acquire new users is to
    achieve a desktop presence. In order to do this, we have
    partnered with certain computer manufacturers to include Skype
    in their new computers.


 



    Existing
    Telephony Products


 


    Our strategy for driving growth from existing telephony products
    relies on new user acquisition, a better product and innovative
    new features. In 2007, we launched a new global pricing
    structure that gives users an
    easy-to-understand
    all-in-one
    Skype package. This packages offers a simple, convenient and
    cost-effective way for consumers worldwide to call landlines and
    mobile phones over the Internet.


 


    To continue growing the number of people using Skype, and to
    improve the Skype experience, we will work with our partners to
    introduce new Skype Certified devices and accessories, many of
    which eliminate the need for a computer to make Skype calls over
    the Internet.



    
    8



Table of Contents



 


    In addition to working with our partners we will continue to
    make Skype Certified products available directly to our users
    through Skype’s webstore as well as through other retail
    channels.


 



    New
    E-Commerce
    Opportunities


 


    We plan on expanding Skype’s presence within our existing
    businesses because communication via
    e-mail —
    the traditional way for buyers and sellers to
    communicate — can be a source of friction in the
    online shopping experience, primarily because of delays in
    response time. Skype enables us to create new channels for
    e-commerce
    activity by reducing friction in the online shopping experience.
    Communication via Skype allows buyers and sellers to benefit
    from being able to communicate directly with each other in an
    instantaneous and private environment.


 



    Other
    Items


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2006, eBay Inc. and its subsidiaries
    employed approximately 13,200 people (including
    approximately 600 temporary employees), approximately 7,900 of
    whom were located in the U.S. (including approximately 300
    temporary employees).


 



    Competition


 


    We encounter vigorous competition in our businesses from
    numerous sources. Our users can find, buy, sell, and pay for
    similar items through a variety of competing channels. These
    include, but are not limited to, online and offline retailers,
    distributors, liquidators, import and export companies,
    auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies, classifieds,
    directories, search engines, products of search engines,
    virtually all online and offline commerce participants
    (consumer-to-consumer,
    business-to-consumer
    and
    business-to-business),
    online and offline shopping channels and networks. As our
    product offerings continue to broaden into new categories of
    items and new commerce formats, we expect to face additional
    competition from other online and offline channels for those new
    offerings. We also compete on the basis of price, product
    selection, and services. For our PayPal service, our users may
    choose to pay through a variety of alternative means, including
    other online payment services, offline payment methods such as
    cash, check or money order, and traditional online or offline
    credit card merchant accounts. For our Communications segment,
    our users may choose to use their local telephone companies,
    cable providers, and other VoIP providers. To compete
    effectively, we may need to expend significant resources in
    technology and marketing. These efforts may be expensive and
    could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial position, operating results, and cash
    flows and reduce the trading price of our stock. We believe that
    we will be able to maintain profitability by preserving and
    expanding the abundance and diversity of our users’ online
    community and enhancing our user experience, but we may not be
    able to continue to manage our operating expenses to mitigate a
    decline in consolidated net income. For more information
    regarding these risks, see the information in
    “Item 1A: Risk Factors” under the caption
    “Our industry is intensely competitive.”


 



    Seasonality


 


    We have historically experienced our strongest quarter of
    sequential growth in our fourth quarter. We expect transaction
    activity patterns on our websites to increasingly mirror general
    consumer buying patterns as our business continues to mature.
    Our expectation is that Skype’s business will experience
    seasonally slower growth during holiday and vacation periods.


 



    Technology


 



    Marketplaces
    and Payments


 


    Our Marketplaces and Payments platforms utilize a combination of
    proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies
    and services provided by others, We have developed intuitive
    user interfaces, customer tools and transaction processing,
    database and network applications that enable our users to
    reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites. Our
    technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing
    of large



    
    9



Table of Contents




    amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of
    large-scale global products and services and automates much of
    the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our
    infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard
    architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or
    catastrophic occurrences. We are continually improving our
    technology to enhance the customer experience and to increase
    efficiency, scalability and security. For information regarding
    technology related risks, see the information in
    “Item 1A: Risk Factors” under the caption
    “Our failure to manage growth could harm our business.”


 



    Communications


 


    Skype’s VoIP communications and other services are
    delivered through a
    peer-to-peer
    network architecture whereby users joining the network provide
    much of the technology resources that enable the Skype services.
    To access Skype’s services, users download Skype software
    over the Internet. Skype utilizes a combination of proprietary
    technologies and services as well as technologies and services
    provided by others to design, develop and support its software
    products. For more information regarding Skype’s technology
    risks, see the information in “Item 1A: Risk
    Factors” under the caption “Skype depends on key
    technology that is licensed from third parties.”


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, patents,
    domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our
    success. We have entered into confidentiality and invention
    assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and
    nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct
    business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our
    proprietary information.


 


    We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by
    relying on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent, trade
    dress and trade secret laws and by using the domain name dispute
    resolution system. As a result, we actively pursue the
    registration of our trademarks, copyrights, patents and domain
    names in the U.S. and other major countries. The expansion of
    our business has required us to protect our trademarks, patents
    and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a
    process that is expensive, may require litigation, and may not
    be successful in every location. We have registered or applied
    to register for our “eBay” trademark in the U.S. and
    over 50
    non-U.S. jurisdictions
    and have in place an active program to continue securing the
    “eBay,” “PayPal,” and “Skype”
    domain names in major
    non-U.S. jurisdictions.
    If we are unable to secure our trademarks or domain names, we
    could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in which our
    trademarks or domain names we are not registered.


 


    Third parties have from time to time claimed, and others may
    claim in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual
    property rights. We currently are involved in several such legal
    proceedings. Please see the information in “Item 3:
    Legal Proceedings” and in “Item 1A: Risk
    Factors” under the captions “We are subject to patent
    litigation” and “We may be unable to protect or
    enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately.”


 



    Segments
    and Geographic Information


 


    For an analysis of financial information about our segments as
    well as our geographic areas, see “Note 4 —
    Segments” to our consolidated financial statements included
    elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.ebay.com. Our investor
    relations website is located at
    http://investor.ebay.com.  We make available
    free of charge on our investor relations website under “SEC
    Filings” our Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file or furnish such
    materials to the SEC.


 



    ITEM 1A:  RISK
    FACTORS


 


    The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only
    ones we face. Other events that we do not currently anticipate
    or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results
    of operations and financial condition.



    
    10



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    operating results may fluctuate.


 


    Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during
    our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate
    significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which
    are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating
    results include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to retain an active user base, to attract new users,
    and to encourage existing users to list items for sale, purchase
    items through our websites, or use our payment service or
    communication software and products;



 


     
        • 

    
    the volume, size, timing, and completion rate of transactions
    using our websites or technology;



 


     
        • 

    
    the amount and timing of operating costs and capital
    expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our
    businesses, operations, and infrastructure;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to integrate, manage, and profitably expand and
    further monetize the Skype business;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to successfully integrate and manage other recent
    and prospective acquisitions;



 


     
        • 

    
    regulatory actions imposing obligations on our businesses or our
    users;



 


     
        • 

    
    the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of
    new sites, services, and products;



 


     
        • 

    
    consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions
    using our websites or technology and our ability to manage the
    costs of our user protection programs;



 


     
        • 

    
    the costs and results of litigation that involves us;



 


     
        • 

    
    the cost and availability of online and traditional advertising,
    and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns;



 


     
        • 

    
    new laws or regulations, or interpretations of existing laws or
    regulations, that harm our business models or restrict the
    Internet, electronic commerce, online payments, or online
    communications;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose
    services are required for our operations, such as credit card
    associations;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop product enhancements at a reasonable cost
    and to develop programs and features in a timely manner;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to upgrade and develop our systems, infrastructure,
    and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to
    improve our websites at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7
    operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our
    websites or services provided to us or our users by third
    parties;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to increase the acceptance of PayPal by online
    merchants outside of the eBay Marketplaces;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to expand PayPal’s product offerings outside of
    the U.S. (including our ability to obtain any necessary
    regulatory approvals);



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to manage PayPal’s transaction loss and credit
    card chargeback rates and payment funding mix;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to continue Skype’s growth and to find
    mechanisms to more effectively monetize it;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective
    manner and to retain key employees;



 


     
        • 

    
    the continued financial strength of our technology suppliers and
    other parties with whom we have commercial relations;



 


     
        • 

    
    continued consumer acceptance of the Internet as a medium for
    commerce and communication in the face of increasing publicity
    about fraud, spoofing, viruses, and other dangers of the
    Internet;






    
    11



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions and those economic conditions
    specific to the Internet and
    e-commerce
    industries; and



 


     
        • 

    
    geopolitical events such as war, threat of war, or terrorist
    actions.





 


    The increased variety of services offered on our websites makes
    it difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our
    revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving
    nature of our business and our limited operating history, we
    believe that
    period-to-period
    comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and
    you should not rely upon them as an indication of future
    performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of
    our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving
    sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent
    difficulty in forecasting revenues it is also difficult to
    forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net
    revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a
    percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from
    historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or
    more future quarters may fall below the expectations of
    securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading
    price of our common stock would almost certainly decline.


 



    We may
    not maintain our level of profitability or rates of
    growth.


 


    We believe that our continued profitability and growth will
    depend in large part on our ability to do the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    attract new users, keep existing users active on our websites
    and services, and increase the activity levels of our active
    users;



 


     
        • 

    
    react to changes in consumer use of the Internet and develop new
    services, as well as new sources of revenues from our existing
    services;



 


     
        • 

    
    manage the costs of our business, including the costs associated
    with maintaining and enhancing our websites, customer support,
    transaction and chargeback rates, user protection programs, and
    international and product expansion;



 


     
        • 

    
    maintain sufficient transaction volume to attract buyers and
    sellers;



 


     
        • 

    
    cost effectively increase the awareness of our brands; and



 


     
        • 

    
    provide our customers with superior community, customer support,
    and trading, communication, and payment experiences.





 


    We invest heavily in marketing and promotion, customer support,
    and further development of the operating infrastructure for our
    core and recently acquired operations. Some of this investment
    entails long-term contractual commitments. As a result, we may
    be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate
    for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our
    profitability. In addition, we are spending in advance of
    anticipated growth, which may also harm our profitability.
    Growth rates in our most established markets, such as Germany
    and the U.S., have declined over time and may continue to do so
    as the existing base of users and transactions becomes larger.
    As our penetration in established markets grows, we will
    increasingly need to rely on keeping existing users active and
    increasing their activity level on our sites for growth in those
    markets. In addition, our Marketplaces business is facing
    increased competitive pressure, particularly in Asia. Because a
    large percentage of PayPal transactions originate on the eBay
    platform, declines in growth rates in major eBay Marketplace
    markets also adversely affect PayPal’s growth rate. The
    expected future growth of our PayPal, Skype, and Shopping.com
    businesses may also cause downward pressure on our profit margin
    because those businesses have lower gross margins than our eBay
    trading platforms.


 



    There
    are many risks associated with our international
    operations.


 


    Our international expansion has been rapid and our international
    business, especially in Germany, the U.K., and South Korea, has
    also become critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues
    outside the United States accounted for approximately 46% and
    48%, respectively, of our net revenues in 2005 and 2006.
    Expansion into international markets requires management
    attention and resources and requires us to localize our services
    to



    
    12



Table of Contents




    conform to local cultures, standards, and policies. The
    commercial, Internet, and transportation infrastructure in
    lesser-developed countries may make it difficult for us to
    replicate our business model. In many countries, we compete with
    local companies that understand the local market better than we
    do, and we may not benefit from
    first-to-market
    advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into
    particular international markets or in generating revenues from
    foreign operations. For example, in 2002 we withdrew our eBay
    marketplace offering from the Japanese market, and in late 2006
    we announced a change to our strategy in China by entering into
    a joint venture with a local Chinese company. Even if we are
    successful in developing new markets, we expect the costs of
    operating new sites to exceed our net revenues for at least
    12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand
    internationally, including through the expansion of PayPal,
    Skype, Shopping.com, and Kijiji, we are subject to risks of
    doing business internationally, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet
    services, communications, auctioneering, professional selling,
    distance selling, banking, and money transmitting, that may
    limit or prevent the offering of our services in some
    jurisdictions, prevent enforceable agreements between sellers
    and buyers, prohibit the listing of certain categories of goods,
    require product changes, require special licensure, subject us
    to special taxes, or limit the transfer of information between
    eBay and our affiliates;



 


     
        • 

    
    legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the listings and
    other content provided by our users, including uncertainty as a
    result of legal systems that are less developed with respect to
    the Internet, unique local laws, and lack of clear precedent or
    applicable law;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties in integrating with local payment providers,
    including banks, credit and debit card associations, and
    electronic fund transfer systems or with the local
    telecommunications infrastructure;



 


     
        • 

    
    differing levels of retail distribution, shipping,
    communications, and Internet infrastructures;



 


     
        • 

    
    different employee/employer relationships and the existence of
    workers’ councils and labor unions;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    challenges associated with joint venture relationships,
    including dependence on our joint venture partners;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal
    controls;



 


     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, and
    greater problems in collecting accounts receivable;



 


     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation
    of our fees or of transactions on our websites;



 


     
        • 

    
    higher telecommunications and Internet service provider costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    strong local competitors;



 


     
        • 

    
    different and more stringent user protection, data protection,
    and other laws;



 


     
        • 

    
    cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, online
    trading;



 


     
        • 

    
    seasonal reductions in business activity;



 


     
        • 

    
    expenses associated with localizing our products, including
    offering customers the ability to transact business in the local
    currency;



 


     
        • 

    
    laws and business practices that favor local competitors or
    prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses;



 


     
        • 

    
    profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange
    restrictions, and exchange rate fluctuations;



 


     
        • 

    
    volatility in a specific country’s or region’s
    political or economic conditions; and



 


     
        • 

    
    differing intellectual property laws.





 


    Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing
    business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. As we expand
    our international operations and have additional portions of our
    international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we
    also could become subject to increased difficulties in
    collecting accounts



    
    13



Table of Contents




    receivable, repatriating money without adverse tax consequences,
    and risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate
    fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations
    is discussed in more detail under “We are exposed to
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates,” below.


 


    We are continuing to expand PayPal’s services
    internationally. We have limited experience with the payments
    business outside of the U.S. In some countries, expansion
    of PayPal’s business may require a close commercial
    relationship with one or more local banks or a shared ownership
    interest with a local entity. We do not know if these or other
    factors may prevent, delay, or limit PayPal’s expansion or
    reduce its profitability. Any limitation on our ability to
    expand PayPal internationally could harm our business.


 


    We maintain a portion of Shopping.com’s research and
    development facilities and personnel in Israel, and as a result,
    political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect
    those operations. During 2006, hostilities escalated between
    Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip and between Israel and
    Hezbollah, based in Lebanon. The future of peace efforts between
    Israel and its neighboring countries remains uncertain.
    Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed
    hostilities between Israel and neighboring states could make it
    more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel,
    which could increase our costs. In addition, many of
    Shopping.com’s employees in Israel could be required to
    serve in the military for extended periods of time under
    emergency circumstances. Shopping.com’s Israeli operations
    could be disrupted by the absence of employees due to military
    service, which could adversely affect its business.


 



    We are
    exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.


 


    Because we conduct a significant and growing portion of our
    business outside the United States but report our results in
    U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in
    currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency
    service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face
    financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or
    if exposure reports are delayed. PayPal also holds some
    corporate and customer funds in
    non-U.S. currencies,
    and thus its financial results are affected by the translation
    of these
    non-U.S. currencies
    into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations
    of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to
    foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of
    the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local
    currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the
    U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the
    translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions
    will result in increased net revenues, operating expenses, and
    net income. Similarly, our net revenues, operating expenses, and
    net income will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens
    against foreign currencies. Net revenues in the twelve-month
    period ended December 31, 2006 were positively impacted by
    foreign currency translation of $40 million, compared to
    the same period of the prior year. Operating income in the
    twelve-month period ended December 31, 2006 was positively
    impacted by foreign currency translation of $14 million,
    compared to the same period of the prior year. As exchange rates
    vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated,
    may differ materially from expectations. In particular, to the
    extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro and
    British Pound, our European revenues and profits will be reduced
    as a result of these translation adjustments. In addition, to
    the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro and
    the British Pound, cross-border trade related to purchases of
    dollar-denominated goods by
    non-U.S. purchasers
    may decrease, and that decrease may not be offset by a
    corresponding increase in cross-border trade involving purchases
    by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in other currencies.
    While we from time to time enter into transactions to hedge
    portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is
    impossible to perfectly predict or completely eliminate the
    effects of this exposure.


 



    We are
    subject to patent litigation.


 


    We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other
    parties’ patents. Some of these suits are ongoing, as
    described under the heading “Item 3: Legal
    Proceedings,” below. We have been notified of several other
    potential patent disputes, and expect that we will increasingly
    be subject to patent infringement claims as our services expand
    in scope and complexity. In particular, we expect that we may
    face additional patent infringement claims involving various
    aspects of our Payments and Communications businesses. These
    claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and
    costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our
    methods of doing business, or could require us to enter into
    costly royalty or licensing agreements.



    
    14



Table of Contents



 



    Government
    inquiries may lead to charges or penalties.


 


    A large number of transactions occur on our websites. We believe
    that government regulators have received a substantial number of
    consumer complaints about both eBay and PayPal, which, while
    small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in
    aggregate numbers. As a result, we have from time to time been
    contacted by various foreign and domestic governmental
    regulatory agencies that have questions about our operations and
    the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has
    received inquiries regarding its restriction and disclosure
    practices from the Federal Trade Commission regarding these and
    other business practices from the attorneys general of a number
    of states. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement
    agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under
    which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys
    general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, increase
    educational messaging to users about funding choices, and
    communicate more information regarding protection programs to
    users. Both eBay and PayPal are likely to receive additional
    inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, which may lead
    to action against either company. We have responded to all
    inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and
    planned antifraud efforts, customer support procedures,
    operating procedures and disclosures. If one or more of these
    agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future
    inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines or
    other penalties, or forced to change our operating practices in
    ways that could harm our business.


 


    We are subject to laws relating to the use and transfer of
    personally identifiable information about our users, especially
    for financial information and for users located outside of the
    U.S. New laws in this area have been passed by several
    jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing
    additional restrictions. Violation of these laws, which in many
    cases apply not only to third-party transactions but also to
    transfers of information between ourselves and our subsidiaries,
    and between ourselves, our subsidiaries, and other parties with
    which we have commercial relations, could subject us to
    significant penalties and negative publicity and could adversely
    affect us.


 



    The
    listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may
    harm our business.


 


    We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the
    future, communications alleging that certain items listed or
    sold through our service by our users infringe third-party
    copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual
    property rights. Although we have sought to work actively with
    the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings
    offering infringing items on our websites, some rights owners
    have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient.
    Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners
    have been active in asserting their rights against online
    companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of
    intellectual property rights have resulted in litigation against
    us from time to time, including litigation brought by
    Tiffany & Co. and Robespierre, Inc. (doing business as
    Nanette Lepore) in the U.S., Rolex S.A. in Germany, Louis
    Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France, and a
    number of other owners of intellectual property rights. The
    plaintiffs in these cases seek to hold eBay liable for
    counterfeit items listed on our sites by third parties, for the
    misuse of trademarks in listings or in connection with paid
    search advertisements, or for alleged violations of selective
    distribution channel laws. Tiffany seeks, among other things,
    injunctive relief and damages. A trial in the Tiffany case has
    been scheduled for May 2007. Nanette Lepore sought, among other
    things, to require eBay to block all listings offering Nanette
    Lepore items, as well as damages. The court denied Nanette
    Lepore’s request for a preliminary injunction, and found
    that eBay’s process for addressing the listing of
    counterfeit items by third parties on its site was both
    reasonable and adequate. Nanette Lepore initially appealed the
    ruling, but subsequently abandoned its appeal. Other luxury
    brand owners have also filed suit against us or have threatened
    to do so. In addition, we may be subject to criminal penalties
    if the authorities feel we have aided in the sale of counterfeit
    goods. While to date we have been largely successful in
    defending against such litigation, more recent cases have been
    based, at least in part, on different legal theories than those
    of earlier cases, and there is no guarantee that we will
    continue to be successful in defending against such litigation.
    In particular, plaintiffs in recent cases have argued that we
    are not entitled to safe harbors under the Digital Millennium
    Copyright Act in the U.S. or as a hosting provider in the
    European Union because of the active nature of our involvement
    with our sellers, and that, whether or not such safe harbors are
    available, we should be found liable because we have not
    adequately removed counterfeit listings or effectively suspended
    users who have created such listings. In addition, a public
    perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on
    our site could damage our reputation and our business.
    Litigation and negative publicity may increase as our sites gain
    prominence in markets outside of the U.S., where



    
    15



Table of Contents




    the laws may be unsettled or less favorable to us. Such
    litigation is costly for us, could result in damage awards or
    increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or
    settlement, could require us to change our business practices in
    expensive ways, or could otherwise harm our business. Litigation
    against other online companies could result in interpretations
    of the law that could also require us to change our business
    practices or otherwise increase our costs.


 



    We are
    subject to general litigation and regulatory
    disputes.


 


    From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or
    regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of
    business. The number and significance of these disputes and
    inquiries are increasing as our business expands and our company
    grows larger. We have in the past been forced to litigate such
    claims. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims
    as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham
    Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the
    courts and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where
    the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of
    online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or
    less favorable. Any claims or regulatory actions against us,
    whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in
    costly litigation, require significant amounts of management
    time, and result in the diversion of significant operational
    resources.


 



    Acquisitions
    could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other
    harmful consequences.


 


    We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, and we
    expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of
    potential strategic transactions, including business
    combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses,
    technologies, services, products and other assets. At any given
    time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with
    respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of
    these transactions could be material to our financial condition
    and results of operations. The process of integrating any
    acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties
    and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may
    face difficulties include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from
    operating the businesses to issues related to integration and
    administration, particularly given the large number and size and
    varying scope of our recent acquisitions, and, in the case of
    Skype, the complex earn-out structure associated with the
    transaction;



 


     
        • 

    
    declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from
    changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in
    management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the
    direction of the business;



 


     
        • 

    
    the need to integrate each company’s accounting,
    management, information, human resource and other administrative
    systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control
    if such integration is delayed or not implemented;



 


     
        • 

    
    the need to implement controls, procedures and policies
    appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior
    to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and
    policies; and



 


     
        • 

    
    in some cases, the need to transition operations, users, and
    customers onto our existing platforms.





 


    Foreign acquisitions involve special risks, including those
    related to integration of operations across different cultures
    and languages, currency risks, and the particular economic,
    political, and regulatory risks associated with specific
    countries. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits
    of any or all of our acquisitions, or may not realize them in
    the time frame expected. For example, we have yet to realize
    significant revenue benefits from the integration of Skype into
    listings on eBay sites. Future acquisitions or mergers may
    result in a need to issue additional equity securities, spend
    our cash, or incur debt, liabilities, or amortization expenses
    related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our
    profitability and harm our business.


 



    System
    failures could harm our business.


 


    We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any
    interruption in the availability of our websites will reduce our
    current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and
    profits, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny.
    eBay’s primary website has been interrupted for periods of
    up to 22 hours, and our PayPal site



    
    16



Table of Contents




    has suffered intermittent unavailability for periods as long as
    five days. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results
    in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues.
    Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause
    current or potential users to believe that our systems are
    unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to
    avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and
    brands. Reliability is particularly critical for PayPal,
    especially as it seeks to expand its Merchant Services business.
    Because PayPal is a regulated financial entity, frequent or
    persistent site interruptions could lead to regulatory
    inquiries. These inquiries could result in fines, penalties, or
    mandatory changes to PayPal’s business practices, and
    ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing licenses it needs
    to operate or prevent it from obtaining additional licenses that
    it needs to expand. Finally, because our customers may use our
    products for critical transactions, any system failures could
    result in damage to our customers’ businesses. These
    customers could seek significant compensation from us for their
    losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be
    time consuming and costly for us to address.


 


    Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard
    architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or
    catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or
    interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss,
    telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses,
    computer
    denial-of-service
    attacks, and similar events. Some of our systems, including our
    Shopping.com and Skype websites, are not fully redundant, and
    our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all
    eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins,
    sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any
    precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a
    decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a
    facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other
    reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting
    facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our
    services. We do not carry business interruption insurance
    sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from
    interruptions in our service as a result of system failures.


 



    Our
    growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and
    these efforts may be costly.


 


    Our historical growth has been largely attributable to word of
    mouth, and to frequent and high visibility national and local
    media coverage. We believe that continuing to strengthen our
    brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of
    our services, and will require an increased focus on active
    marketing efforts across all of our brands. The demand for and
    cost of online and traditional advertising have been increasing,
    and may continue to increase. Accordingly, we will need to spend
    increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to,
    advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain
    brand loyalty among users. During 2004 and 2005, we
    significantly increased the number of brands we are supporting,
    adding Rent.com, Shopping.com, Kijiji, and Skype, among others.
    Each of these brands requires its own resources, increasing the
    costs of our branding efforts. Brand promotion activities may
    not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased
    revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our
    brands. If we do attract new users to our services, they may not
    conduct transactions using our services on a regular basis. If
    we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur
    substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and
    maintain our brands, our business would be harmed.


 



    Our
    business and users may be subject to sales tax and other
    taxes.


 


    The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax,
    value-added tax, or VAT, goods and services tax, business tax,
    and gross receipt tax) to
    e-commerce
    businesses such as eBay and to our users is a complex and
    evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations
    that impose these taxes were established before the growth of
    the Internet and
    e-commerce.
    In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to
    the Internet or electronic commerce or communications conducted
    over the Internet. In addition, some jurisdictions have
    implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the
    Internet or some aspect of electronic commerce or communications
    on the Internet. The application of existing, new, or future
    laws could have adverse effects on our business.


 


    Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and
    local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of
    goods and services through the Internet. These proposals, if
    adopted, could substantially impair the growth of
    e-commerce,
    and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit
    from our activities. The U.S. federal government’s
    moratorium on states and other local authorities imposing access
    or discriminatory taxes on the Internet is scheduled to expire
    in November 2007. This moratorium does not prohibit federal,
    state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income
    or from collecting taxes that are due under existing tax rules.



    
    17



Table of Contents



 


    In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax
    Project — an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S.,
    state, and local governments to require collection and
    remittance of distant sales tax by
    out-of-state
    sellers — bills have been introduced in the
    U.S. Congress to overturn the Supreme Court’s Quill
    decision, which limits the ability of state governments to
    require sellers outside of their own state to collect and remit
    sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. An
    overturning of the Quill decision would harm our users
    and our business.


 


    We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users
    of our services. One or more states or the federal government or
    foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection or
    reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies such as eBay
    and PayPal that engage in or facilitate
    e-commerce.
    Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to
    improve tax compliance or if eBay were ever deemed to be the
    legal agent of eBay sellers by a jurisdiction in which eBay
    operates. Imposition of a record keeping or tax collecting
    requirement would harm our business. Foreign authorities may
    also require eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with
    local laws regulating professional sellers, including tax
    requirements. In addition, we have periodically received
    requests from tax authorities in some foreign jurisdictions for
    information regarding the transactions of large classes of
    sellers on our sites, and in some cases we may be legally
    obligated to provide this data. Requirements that we disclose
    sellers’ transaction records to tax authorities, and any
    use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from, or
    prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites
    and harm our business.


 


    In July 2003, in compliance with the changes brought about by
    the European Union, or EU, VAT directive on “electronically
    supplied services,” eBay began collecting VAT on the fees
    charged to EU sellers on eBay sites catering to EU residents.
    eBay also pays input VAT to suppliers within the various
    countries the company operates. In most cases, eBay is entitled
    to reclaim input VAT from the various countries with regard to
    our own payments to suppliers or vendors. However, because of
    our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules
    that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful
    assertion by one or more countries that eBay is not entitled to
    reclaim VAT would harm our business.


 


    We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and
    legislators to clarify eBay’s obligations under new and
    emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and
    the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting
    requirements could harm our users and our business. There have
    been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs
    associated with complying with the various indirect tax
    requirements in the numerous markets in which eBay conducts or
    will conduct business.


 



    Failure
    to deal effectively with fraudulent transactions and customer
    disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our
    business.


 


    PayPal’s highly automated and liquid payment service makes
    PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its
    service, PayPal faces an inherent trade-off between customer
    convenience and security. Identity thieves and those committing
    fraud using stolen credit card or bank account numbers can
    potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as
    PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal’s current and
    former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone
    out of business or significantly restricted their businesses
    largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses
    advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically
    knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent
    PayPal’s anti-fraud systems. In addition, PayPal’s
    service could be subject to employee fraud or other internal
    security breaches, and PayPal would be required to reimburse
    customers for any funds stolen as a result of such breaches.
    Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using
    PayPal, if they are affected by buyer fraud.


 


    PayPal incurs substantial losses from merchant fraud, including
    claims from customers that merchants have not performed or that
    their goods or services do not match the merchant’s
    description. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the
    customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from
    erroneous transmissions, and from customers who have closed bank
    accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments.
    In addition to the direct costs of such losses, if they are
    related to credit card transactions and become excessive they
    could result in PayPal losing the right to accept credit cards
    for payment. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, the
    velocity of trade on eBay could decrease, in which case our
    business would further suffer. PayPal has been assessed
    substantial fines for excess charge-backs in the past, and
    excessive charge-backs may arise in the future. PayPal has taken
    measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these
    measures need to be continually improved and may



    
    18



Table of Contents




    not be effective against new forms of fraud or in connection
    with new product offerings. If these measures do not succeed,
    our business will suffer. PayPal’s fraud loss rate
    increased significantly in the second half of 2006.


 


    PayPal offers a buyer protection program that refunds to buyers
    up to $1,000 in certain eBay transactions if they do not receive
    the goods they purchased or if the goods differ significantly
    from what was described by the seller. In January 2007, this
    program was revised to refund buyers who use PayPal up to $200
    in most eBay transactions, and up to $2,000 in certain eBay
    transactions, if they do not receive the goods they purchased or
    if the goods differ significantly from what was described by the
    seller. If PayPal makes such a refund, it may seek to collect
    reimbursement from the seller, but may not be able to receive
    any funds from the seller. The PayPal buyer protection program
    has increased PayPal’s loss rate and could cause future
    fluctuations in PayPal’s loss rate. For the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2006, PayPal’s transaction loss
    totaled $73.8 million and $126.4 million, representing
    0.27% and 0.33% of PayPal’s total payment volume,
    respectively.


 


    eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities
    on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from
    users who may not have received the goods that they had
    purchased. In some cases individuals have been arrested and
    convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay
    also receives complaints from sellers who have not received
    payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase.
    Non-payment may occur because of miscommunication, because a
    buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the
    contract to purchase the item, or because the buyer bid on the
    item maliciously, in order to harm either the seller or eBay. In
    some European jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to
    withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a
    specified time period.


 


    While eBay can suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill
    their payment or delivery obligations to other users, eBay does
    not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver
    goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through our
    limited buyer protection programs. Other than through these
    programs, eBay does not compensate users who believe they have
    been defrauded by other users, although users who pay through
    PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their credit card
    company or bank, which in turn will seek reimbursement from
    PayPal. eBay also periodically receives complaints from buyers
    as to the quality of the goods purchased. We expect to continue
    to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or
    threatening or commencing legal action against us if no
    reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is
    only beginning to be clarified and may be higher in some
    non-U.S. jurisdictions
    than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for
    third-party actions could be costly for us, divert management
    attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to
    adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition,
    affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that
    could take action against us, including imposing fines or
    seeking injunctions.


 


    Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of
    fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our eBay and PayPal
    services could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to
    attract new users or retain our current users, and diminish the
    value of our brand names.


 



    The
    current regulatory environment for Voice over Internet Protocol
    (VoIP) is uncertain, and Skype’s business could be harmed
    by new regulations or the application of existing regulations to
    its products.


 


    The current regulatory environment for VoIP is uncertain and
    rapidly changing. Skype’s voice communications products are
    currently subject to very few, if any, of the same regulations
    that apply to traditional telephony and to
    VoIP-based
    telephone replacement services. VoIP companies are generally
    subject to different regulatory regimes in different countries,
    and in most cases are subject to lower, or no, regulatory fees
    and lesser, or no, specific regulatory requirements. Governments
    may impose new or increased fees, taxes, and administrative
    burdens on VoIP companies, or Skype may change its product
    offerings in a manner that makes it become subject to
    telecommunications regulations. Increased fees could include
    access and other charges payable to local exchange carriers to
    carry and terminate traffic, contributions to federal or state
    Universal Service Funds in the United States and elsewhere, and
    other charges. New laws and regulations may require Skype to
    meet various emergency service requirements, disability access
    requirements, user protection requirements, number assignment
    and portability requirements, and interception or wiretapping
    requirements, such as the Communications Assistance for Law
    Enforcement Act in the U.S. and similar laws in other
    jurisdictions. Such regulations could result in substantial
    costs depending on the technical changes required to accommodate
    the requirements, and any increased costs could erode



    
    19



Table of Contents




    Skype’s pricing advantage over competing forms of
    communication. Regulations that decrease the degree of privacy
    for users of Skype’s products could also slow its adoption.
    The increasing growth and popularity of the VoIP telephony and
    Internet communications market heighten the risk that
    governments will seek to regulate VoIP and Internet
    communications. Competitors, including the incumbent telephone
    companies, may devote substantial lobbying efforts to seek
    greater protection for their existing businesses and increased
    regulation of VoIP. In the United States, various state
    legislatures and regulatory agencies are considering whether to
    impose their own requirements and taxes on VoIP. Increased
    regulatory requirements on VoIP would increase Skype’s
    costs, and, as a result, our business would suffer.


 


    Regulatory agencies may require Skype to conform to rules that
    are difficult or impossible for it to comply with due to the
    nature of its communications technologies, which could adversely
    affect its business. For example, while suitable alternatives
    may be developed in the future, Skype is currently unable to
    identify the exact geographic origin of the traffic traversing
    the Internet or to provide detailed calling information about
    computer-to-computer
    communications, either of which may make complying with future
    regulatory requirements, such as emergency service requirements,
    difficult or impossible.


 


    In many countries in which Skype operates or provides VoIP
    products, the laws that may relate to its offerings are unclear.
    We cannot be certain that Skype or its customers are currently
    in full compliance with regulatory or other legal requirements
    in all countries in which Skype is used. Skype’s failure or
    the failure of those with whom Skype transacts business to
    comply with these requirements could materially adversely affect
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    New rules and regulations with respect to VoIP are being
    considered in various countries around the world. Such new rules
    and regulations could increase our costs of doing business or
    prevent us from delivering our products and offerings over the
    Internet, which could adversely affect Skype’s customer
    base, and thus its revenue.


 



    Skype
    depends on key technology that is licensed from third
    parties.


 


    Skype licenses technology underlying certain key components of
    its software from third parties it does not control, including
    the technology underlying its
    peer-to-peer
    architecture and firewall traversal technology, and the audio
    and video compression/decompression used to provide high sound
    and video quality. Although Skype has contracts in place with
    its third party technology providers, there can be no assurance
    that the licensed technology or other technology that we may
    seek to license in the future will continue to be available on
    commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of, or
    inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in a
    decrease in service quality until equivalent technology or
    suitable alternatives can be developed, identified, licensed and
    integrated. While we believe Skype has the ability to either
    extend these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or
    identify and obtain or develop suitable alternative products,
    the costs associated with licensing or developing such products
    could be high. Any failure to maintain these licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms or to license or develop
    alternative technologies would harm Skype’s business.


 



    Our
    businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the
    Internet. Internet service providers may be able to block,
    degrade, or charge us for our users’ additional fees for
    our offerings.


 


    Our customers rely on access to the Internet to use our products
    and services. In many cases that access is provided by companies
    that compete with at least some of our offerings, including
    incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile
    communications companies, and large Internet service providers.
    Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures
    that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of
    customers’ use of our offerings by restricting or
    prohibiting the use of their lines for our offerings, by
    filtering, blocking, delaying, or degrading the packets
    containing the data associated with our products, or by charging
    increased fees to us or our users for use of their lines to
    provide our offerings. Some of these providers have
    contractually restricted their customers’ access to
    Skype’s offerings through their terms of service with their
    customers. These activities are technically feasible and may be
    permitted by applicable law. In addition, Internet service
    providers could attempt to charge us each time our customers use
    our offerings. Worldwide, a number of companies have announced
    plans to take such actions or are selling products designed to
    facilitate such actions. Interference with our offerings or
    higher



    
    20



Table of Contents




    charges for access to our offerings, whether paid by us or by
    our customers, could cause us to lose existing customers, impair
    our ability to attract new customers, and harm our revenue and
    growth.


 



    Changes
    to credit card association fees, rules, or practices could harm
    PayPal’s business.


 


    Because PayPal is not a bank, it cannot belong to or directly
    access credit card associations, such as Visa and MasterCard. As
    a result, PayPal must rely on banks or payment processors to
    process transactions, and must pay a fee for this service. From
    time to time, credit card associations may increase the
    interchange fees that they charge for each transaction using one
    of their cards. MasterCard and Visa each implemented increases
    in their interchange fees for credit cards in April 2005.
    PayPal’s credit card processors have the right to pass any
    increases in interchange fees on to PayPal as well as increase
    their own fees for processing. These increased fees increase
    PayPal’s operating costs and reduce its profit margins.
    PayPal is also required by its processors to comply with credit
    card association operating rules, and PayPal has agreed to
    reimburse its processors for any fines they are assessed by
    credit card associations as a result of any rule violations by
    PayPal. The credit card associations and their member banks set
    and interpret the credit card rules. Some of those member banks
    compete with PayPal. Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or
    Discover could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret
    existing rules that PayPal or its processors might find
    difficult or even impossible to follow. As a result, PayPal
    could lose its ability to give customers the option of using
    credit cards to fund their payments. If PayPal were unable to
    accept credit cards, its business would be seriously damaged. In
    addition, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and our
    business would further suffer.


 


    PayPal is required to comply with credit card associations’
    special operating rules for Internet payment services. PayPal
    and its credit card processors have implemented specific
    business processes for merchant customers in order to comply
    with these rules, but any failure to comply could result in
    fines, the amount of which would be within Visa’s and
    MasterCard’s discretion. PayPal also could be subject to
    fines from MasterCard and Visa if it fails to detect that
    merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that
    are considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of
    certain types of digital content. For “high risk”
    merchants, PayPal must either prevent such merchants from using
    PayPal or register such merchants with MasterCard and Visa and
    conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants.
    PayPal has incurred fines from its credit card processor
    relating to PayPal’s failure to detect the use of its
    service by “high risk” merchants. The amount of these
    fines has not been material, but any additional fines in the
    future would likely be for larger amounts, could become
    material, and could result in a termination of PayPal’s
    ability to accept credit cards or changes in PayPal’s
    process for registering new customers, which would seriously
    damage PayPal’s business.


 



    Changes
    in PayPal’s funding mix could adversely affect
    PayPal’s results.


 


    PayPal pays significant transaction fees when senders fund
    payment transactions using credit cards, nominal fees when
    customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of
    funds from bank accounts, and no fees when customers fund
    payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance.
    Senders fund a significant portion of PayPal’s payment
    volume using credit cards, and PayPal’s financial success
    will remain highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which its
    senders fund payments using credit cards. Senders may prefer
    funding using credit cards rather than bank account transfers
    for a number of reasons, including the ability to dispute and
    reverse charges if merchandise is not delivered or is not as
    described, the ability to earn frequent flier miles or other
    incentives offered by credit cards, the ability to defer
    payment, or a reluctance to provide bank account information to
    PayPal. In addition, some products that PayPal is introducing as
    it expands its business are expected to have a higher rate of
    credit card funding than PayPal’s current rate. In
    September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with
    the attorneys general of a number of states under which it
    agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general,
    shorten and streamline its user agreement, and communicate more
    information regarding protection programs to users. Also in
    September 2006, PayPal announced that it had reached a
    preliminary settlement agreement under which it agreed to pay
    approximately $3.5 million into a settlement fund for the
    benefit of a class represented by plaintiffs in a suit that
    alleged, among other things, that PayPal’s disclosure
    regarding the effects of users’ choice of funding mechanism
    was deceptive. Although PayPal did not admit any liability for
    any of the allegations in the two cases, the required changes to
    our disclosure practices under the settlement agreements could
    result in increased use of credit card funding, which would harm
    PayPal’s business.



    
    21



Table of Contents



 



    If
    PayPal were found to be subject to or in violation of any
    U.S. laws or regulations governing banking, money
    transmission, or electronic funds transfers, it could be subject
    to liability and forced to change its business
    practices.


 


    A number of U.S. states have enacted legislation regulating
    money transmitters. To date, PayPal has obtained licenses in 36
    of these jurisdictions and interpretations in nine states that
    licensing is not required under their existing statutes. As a
    licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to bonding
    requirements, restrictions on its investment of customer funds,
    reporting requirements, and inspection by state regulatory
    agencies. In July 2005, PayPal entered into a settlement
    agreement and agreed to pay $225,000 to the California
    Department of Financial Institutions in connection with alleged
    violations of the California Financial Code relating to the use
    of a receipt form for international payments that had not been
    pre-approved by the Department, and incomplete reporting to the
    Department. If PayPal were found to be in violation of other
    money services laws or regulations, PayPal could be subject to
    liability, forced to cease doing business with residents of
    certain states, or forced to change its business practices. Any
    change to PayPal’s business practices that makes the
    service less attractive to customers or prohibits its use by
    residents of a particular jurisdiction could decrease the
    velocity of trade on eBay, which would further harm our
    business. Even if PayPal is not forced to change its business
    practices, it could be required to obtain additional licenses or
    regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on
    PayPal.


 


    We believe that the licensing or approval requirements of the
    U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal
    Reserve Board, and other federal or state agencies that regulate
    banks, bank holding companies, or other types of providers of
    e-commerce
    services do not apply to PayPal, except for certain money
    transmitter licenses mentioned above. However, one or more
    states may conclude that PayPal is engaged in an unauthorized
    banking business. If PayPal is found to be engaged in an
    unauthorized banking business in one or more states, it might be
    subject to monetary penalties and adverse publicity and might be
    required to cease doing business with residents of those states
    or could be subject to fines and penalties. The need to comply
    with state laws prohibiting unauthorized banking activities
    could also limit PayPal’s ability to enhance its services
    in the future. Any change to PayPal’s business practices
    that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits
    its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could decrease
    the velocity of trade on eBay, which would further harm our
    business.


 


    Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date,
    PayPal has assumed that its service is subject to the Electronic
    Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the Federal
    Reserve Board. As a result, among other things, PayPal must
    provide advance disclosure of changes to its service, follow
    specified error resolution procedures and absorb losses above
    $50 from transactions not authorized by the consumer. In
    addition, PayPal is subject to the financial privacy provisions
    of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, state financial privacy laws, and
    related regulations. As a result, some customer financial
    information that PayPal receives is subject to limitations on
    reuse and disclosure. Existing and potential future privacy laws
    may limit PayPal’s ability to develop new products and
    services that make use of data gathered through its service. The
    provisions of these laws and related regulations are
    complicated, and PayPal does not have extensive experience in
    complying with them. Even technical violations of these laws can
    result in penalties of up to $1,000 for each non-compliant
    transaction. PayPal processed an average of approximately
    1.7 million transactions per day during the year ended
    December 31, 2006, and any violations could expose PayPal
    to significant liability. Any negative change in the
    public’s perception of PayPal’s compliance with
    privacy laws and policies could also negatively impact
    PayPal’s business.


 



    PayPal’s
    status under banking or financial services laws or other laws in
    markets outside the U.S. is unclear.


 


    PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to send
    payments from 103 markets, and to receive payments in 49 of
    those markets. In 35 of these 49 markets, customers can withdraw
    funds to local bank accounts, and in eight of these markets
    customers can withdraw funds by receiving a bank draft in the
    mail. PayPal offers customers the ability to send or receive
    payments denominated in 17 currencies. 25 of the 103 markets
    whose residents can use the PayPal service are members of the
    European Union, and PayPal provides localized versions of its
    service to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe) Ltd., a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is licensed in the United
    Kingdom to operate as an Electronic Money Institution. PayPal
    (Europe) implements its localized services in EU countries
    through an expedited “passport” notification process
    through the United Kingdom regulator to regulators in other EU
    member states, pursuant to EU Directives. PayPal (Europe) has



    
    22



Table of Contents




    completed the “passport” notice process in all EU
    member countries. The regulators in these countries could notify
    PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that will
    apply to its business, in addition to United Kingdom consumer
    protection law. Any such responses from these regulators could
    increase the cost of, or delay, PayPal’s plans for
    expanding its business. PayPal (Europe) is subject to
    significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the
    disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization,
    funds management or other requirements imposed on electronic
    money institutions.


 


    In markets other than the U.S., European Union, Australia and
    China, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Private Ltd.,
    a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore.
    In many of these markets, it is not clear whether PayPal’s
    Singapore-based service is subject to local law or, if it is
    subject to local law, whether such local law requires a payment
    processor like PayPal to be licensed as a bank or financial
    institution or otherwise. Even if PayPal is not currently
    required to obtain a license in those countries, future
    localization or targeted marketing of PayPal’s service in
    those countries could require licensure and other laws of those
    countries (such as data protection and anti-money laundering
    laws) may apply. If PayPal were found to be subject to and in
    violation of any foreign laws or regulations, it could be
    subject to liability, forced to change its business practices or
    forced to suspend providing services to customers in one or more
    countries. Alternatively, PayPal could be required to obtain
    licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial
    cost on it and involve considerable delay to the provision or
    development of its product. Delay or failure to receive such a
    license would require PayPal to change its business practices or
    features in ways that would adversely affect PayPal’s
    international expansion plans and could require PayPal to
    suspend providing services to customers in one or more countries.


 



    PayPal’s
    failure to manage customer funds properly would harm its
    business.


 


    PayPal’s ability to manage and account accurately for
    customer funds requires a high level of internal controls.
    PayPal has a limited operating history and management experience
    in managing these internal controls. As PayPal’s business
    continues to grow, it must strengthen its internal controls
    accordingly. PayPal’s success requires significant public
    confidence in its ability to handle large and growing
    transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure
    to maintain necessary controls or to manage accurately customer
    funds could diminish customer use of PayPal’s product
    severely.


 



    New
    and existing regulations could harm our business.


 


    We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other
    companies conducting business on and off the Internet. Today,
    there are still relatively few laws specifically directed
    towards online services. However, due to the increasing
    popularity and use of the Internet and online services, many
    laws relating to the Internet are being debated at all levels of
    government around the world. Adopted and proposed laws and
    regulations cover issues such as user privacy, freedom of
    expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of products and
    services, taxation, tax-related reporting of business activity,
    advertising, intellectual property rights, and information
    security. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues
    such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual
    property issues, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and
    personal privacy apply to online businesses. The majority of
    these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and
    related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or
    address the unique issues of the Internet and related
    technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as
    the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European
    Union’s Directive on Distance Selling and Electronic
    Commerce, have begun to be interpreted by the courts and
    implemented by the EU Member States, but their applicability and
    scope remain somewhat uncertain. As our activities and the types
    of goods listed on our websites expand, including through
    acquisitions such as our recent acquisition of StubHub, an
    online ticket marketplace, regulatory agencies or courts may
    claim or hold that we or our users are either subject to
    licensure or prohibited from conducting our business in their
    jurisdiction, either with respect to our services in general, or
    in order to allow the sale of certain items, such as real
    estate, event tickets, cultural goods, boats, and automobiles.


 


    Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State
    of California, where our headquarters are located, have
    regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of
    property by “secondhand dealers” or
    “pawnbrokers.” No final legal determination has been
    made as to whether the California regulations apply to our
    business (or that of our users) and little precedent exists in
    this area. Several states and some foreign jurisdictions have
    attempted, and may attempt in the future, to impose such
    regulations upon us or our users. Attempted enforcement



    
    23



Table of Contents




    of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing
    and such attempted enforcements could harm our business. In
    2002, Illinois amended its auction law to provide for a special
    regulatory regime for “Internet auction listing
    services,” and we have registered as an Internet auction
    listing service in Illinois. Although this registration has not
    had a negative impact on our business to date, other regulatory
    and licensure claims could result in costly litigation or could
    require us to change the way we or our users do business in ways
    that increase costs or reduce revenues or force us to prohibit
    listings of certain items for some locations. We could also be
    subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes
    could harm our business.


 


    In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, and
    we facilitate sales of goods to users worldwide, foreign
    jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with
    their laws. For example, the Australian high court has ruled
    that a U.S. website in certain circumstances must comply
    with Australian laws regarding libel. A number of the lawsuits
    against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our
    websites subject to unfavorable local laws. As we expand and
    localize our international activities, we become obligated to
    comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate. Laws
    regulating Internet companies outside of the U.S. may be
    less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to
    consumers, content owners, and users. Compliance may be more
    costly or may require us to change our business practices or
    restrict our service offerings relative to those in the
    U.S. In addition, we may be subject to overlapping legal or
    regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us.
    Our failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to
    penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to bans on our
    services.


 



    Our
    tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive, and
    other risks that could harm this business.


 


    Our tickets business, which includes our recently-acquired
    StubHub business, is subject to numerous risks. Many
    jurisdictions have laws and regulations covering the resale of
    event tickets, and some jurisdictions prohibit the resale of
    event tickets at prices above the face value of the tickets. In
    addition, new laws and regulations may be passed that would
    limit our or our users’ ability to continue this business.
    Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are
    responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws
    and regulations or that we or our users are either subject to
    licensure or prohibited from reselling event tickets in their
    jurisdictions.


 


    Some event organizers and professional sports teams have
    expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our
    sites, and in November 2006 the New England Patriots filed suit
    against StubHub alleging that StubHub’s resale activities
    violate Massachusetts’ ticket resale laws and constitute
    intentional interference with the team’s relationship with
    its season ticket holders. Such litigation could result in
    damage awards, could require us to change our business practices
    in harmful ways, or could otherwise negatively affect our
    tickets business. Our tickets business is also subject to
    seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business
    conditions that impact the sporting events and live
    entertainment industries. Our tickets business also faces
    significant competition from a number of sources, including
    ticketing service companies (such as TicketMaster and
    Tickets.com), event organizers (such as professional sports
    teams and leagues), ticket brokers, and other online and offline
    ticket resellers (such as TicketsNow and RazorGator). If we are
    unable to effectively compete with these competitors, our
    tickets business could be harmed.


 



    Our
    business is subject to online security risks, including security
    breaches and identity theft.


 


    To succeed, online commerce and communications must provide a
    secure transmission of confidential information over public
    networks. Our security measures may not detect or prevent
    security breaches that could harm our business. Currently, a
    significant number of our users authorize us to bill their
    credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged
    by us. PayPal’s users routinely provide credit card and
    other financial information. We rely on encryption and
    authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide
    the security and authentication to effect secure transmission of
    confidential information, including customer credit card
    numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in
    the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a
    compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect
    transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to
    illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the
    user’s transaction data. An increasing number of websites
    have reported breaches of their security. Any compromise of our
    security could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business.
    In addition, a party that is able to circumvent our security
    measures could misappropriate proprietary information, cause
    interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of
    our users, or otherwise damage



    
    24



Table of Contents




    our reputation and business. Under credit card rules and our
    contract with our card processors, if there is a breach of
    credit card information that we store, or that is stored by
    PayPal’s direct credit card processing customers, we could
    be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of
    issuing new cards and related expenses.


 


    Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or
    electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and we have
    experienced
    “denial-of-service”
    type attacks on our system that have made all or portions of our
    websites unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend
    significant resources to protect against security breaches or to
    address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to
    become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we
    operate. Security breaches could damage our reputation and
    expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible
    liability. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits,
    which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by
    security breaches.


 


    Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet
    companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties
    using fraudulent “spoof” emails to misappropriate
    passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or
    to introduce viruses through “trojan horse” programs
    to our users’ computers. These emails appear to be
    legitimate emails sent by eBay, PayPal, Skype, or a user of one
    of those businesses, but direct recipients to fake websites
    operated by the sender of the email or request that the
    recipient send a password or other confidential information via
    email or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate
    “spoof”
    e-mails
    through product improvements and user education,
    “spoof” remains a serious problem that may damage our
    brand, discourage use of our websites, and increase our costs.


 


    Some businesses and security consultants have expressed concern
    over the potential for Skype’s software to create security
    vulnerabilities on its users’ computers. While we believe
    Skype’s software is safe and does not pose a security risk
    to its users, the perception that Skype’s software is
    unsafe could hamper its adoption, and any actual security breach
    could damage Skype’s reputation and expose us to a risk of
    loss or litigation and possible liability.


 



    Our
    failure to manage growth could harm our business.


 


    We are currently expanding our headcount, facilities, and
    infrastructure in the U.S. and internationally. We anticipate
    that further expansion will be required as we continue to expand
    into new lines of business and geographic areas. This expansion
    has placed, and we expect it will continue to place, a
    significant strain on our management, operational, and financial
    resources. The areas that are put under strain by our growth
    include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our Websites.  We must constantly add new
    hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to
    accommodate the increased use of our and our subsidiaries’
    websites and the new products and features we regularly
    introduce. This upgrade process is expensive, and the increased
    complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple
    platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of
    additional enhancements. Failure to upgrade our technology,
    features, transaction processing systems, security
    infrastructure, or network infrastructure to accommodate
    increased traffic or transaction volume could harm our business.
    Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system
    disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of
    customer support, impaired quality of users’ experiences of
    our services, impaired quality of services for third-party
    application developers using our externally accessible
    Application Programming Interface, or API, and delays in
    reporting accurate financial information. We may be unable to
    effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or
    smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies
    or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do
    so could result in problems on our sites. For example, in
    October 2004, we experienced unscheduled downtime on the PayPal
    website over a period of five days related to system upgrades.
    Despite our efforts to increase site scalability and
    reliability, our infrastructure could prove unable to handle a
    larger volume of customer transactions. Some of our more
    recently acquired businesses may be particularly subject to this
    risk given their shorter histories and, in some cases, higher
    growth rates. Any failure to accommodate transaction growth
    could impair customer satisfaction, lead to a loss of customers,
    impair our ability to add customers, or increase our costs, all
    of which would harm our business. Further, steps to increase the
    reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce
    our margins, and may not be successful in reducing the frequency
    or duration of unscheduled downtime.






    
    25



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Customer Account Billing.  Our revenues
    depend on prompt and accurate billing processes. Problems with
    our conversion to a new billing system during the second and
    third quarters of 2004 caused incorrect account balance totals
    to be displayed for some users. While these problems have been
    corrected and we believe that no users were overcharged, our
    failure to grow our transaction-processing capabilities to
    accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be
    billed on any of our websites would harm our business and our
    ability to collect revenue.



 


     
        • 

    
    Customer Support.  We are expanding our
    customer support operations to accommodate the increased number
    of users and transactions on our websites and the increased
    level of user protection activity we provide worldwide. If we
    are unable to provide these operations in a cost-effective
    manner, users of our websites may have negative experiences,
    current and future revenues could suffer, and our operating
    margins may decrease.





 


    We must continue to hire, train, and manage new employees at a
    rapid rate. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are
    unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating
    these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining
    our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage
    the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will
    need to improve our transaction processing, operational and
    financial systems, procedures, and controls. This is a special
    challenge as we acquire new operations with different systems.
    Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and
    controls may not be adequate to support our future operations.
    The additional headcount and capital investments we are adding
    increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us
    to offset any future revenue shortfalls by expense reductions in
    the short term.


 



    Use of
    our services for illegal purposes could harm our
    business.


 


    The law relating to the liability of providers of online
    services for the activities of their users on their service is
    currently unsettled in the United States and internationally. We
    are aware that certain goods, such as weapons, adult material,
    tobacco products, alcohol, and other goods that may be subject
    to regulation, have been listed and traded on our service. We
    may be unable to prevent our users from selling unlawful goods
    or selling goods in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to
    allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful
    activities carried out by users through our service. We have
    been subject to several lawsuits based upon such allegations. In
    December 2004, an executive of Baazee.com, our Indian
    subsidiary, was arrested in connection with a user’s
    listing of a pornographic video clip on that site. Similarly,
    our Korean subsidiary and one of its employees were found
    criminally liable for listings on the Korean subsidiary’s
    website. In order to reduce our exposure to this liability, we
    have prohibited the listing of certain items and increased the
    number of personnel reviewing questionable items. In the future,
    we may implement other protective measures that could require us
    to spend substantial resources or discontinue certain service
    offerings. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability
    relating to the sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of
    goods could harm our business. In addition, we have received
    significant and continuing media attention relating to the
    listing or sale of unlawful goods using our services. This
    negative publicity could damage our reputation and diminish the
    value of our brand names. It also could make users reluctant to
    continue to use our services.


 


    PayPal’s payment system is also susceptible to potentially
    illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal online
    gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales
    of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of
    software and other intellectual property, money laundering, bank
    fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of
    alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, and online securities
    fraud. PayPal’s acceptable use policy enables PayPal to
    fine users in certain jurisdictions up to $500 or take legal
    action to recover its losses for certain violations of that
    policy, including online gambling and illegal sales of
    prescription medications. Despite measures PayPal has taken to
    detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, illegal
    activities could still be funded using PayPal.


 


    PayPal is subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations
    that prohibit, among other things, its involvement in
    transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. Although
    PayPal has adopted a program to comply with these laws and
    regulations, any errors or failure to implement the program
    properly could lead to lawsuits, administrative action, and
    prosecution by the government. In July 2003, PayPal agreed with
    the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri that
    it would pay $10 million as a civil forfeiture to settle
    allegations that its



    
    26



Table of Contents




    provision of services to online gambling merchants violated
    provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act and further agreed to have its
    compliance program reviewed by an independent audit firm. PayPal
    is also subject to regulations that require it to report
    suspicious activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more
    and may be required to obtain and keep more detailed records on
    the senders and recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or
    more. The interpretation of suspicious activities in this
    context is uncertain. Future regulations under the USA PATRIOT
    Act may require PayPal to revise the procedures it uses to
    verify the identity of its customers and to monitor
    international transactions more closely. As PayPal localizes its
    service in other countries, additional verification and
    reporting requirements could apply. These regulations could
    impose significant costs on PayPal and make it more difficult
    for new customers to join its network. PayPal could be required
    to learn more about its customers before opening an account, to
    obtain additional verification of customers and to monitor its
    customers’ activities more closely. These requirements, as
    well as any additional restrictions imposed by credit card
    associations, could raise PayPal’s costs significantly and
    reduce the attractiveness of its product. Failure to comply with
    federal, state or foreign country money laundering laws could
    result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties,
    and forfeiture of significant assets.


 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with information disseminated
    through our service.


 


    The law relating to the liability of online services companies
    for information carried on or disseminated through their
    services is currently unsettled. Claims could be made against
    online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for
    defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or
    trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature
    and content of the materials disseminated through their
    services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability
    upon us under a number of these theories have been brought
    against us. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has
    been proposed that would prohibit or impose liability for the
    transmission over the Internet of certain types of information.
    Our service features a Feedback Forum, which includes
    information from users regarding other users. Although all such
    feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of
    defamation or other injury have been made in the past and could
    be made in the future against us for content posted in the
    Feedback Forum. Several recent court decisions have narrowed the
    scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers
    like us under the Communications Decency Act. This trend, if
    continued, may increase our potential liability to third parties
    for the user-provided content on our site. Our liability for
    such claims may be higher in jurisdictions outside the
    U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are
    unsettled. If we become liable for information provided by our
    users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we
    operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to
    implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability.
    This may require us to expend substantial resources or to
    discontinue certain service offerings, which would negatively
    affect our financial results. In addition, the increased
    attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these
    lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or
    otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred
    as a result of this potential liability could harm our business.


 



    Customer
    complaints or negative publicity about our customer service
    could diminish use of our services.


 


    Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer
    service could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use
    of our services. Measures we sometimes take to combat risks of
    fraud and breaches of privacy and security can damage relations
    with our customers. These measures heighten the need for prompt
    and accurate customer service to resolve irregularities and
    disputes. Effective customer service requires significant
    personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly,
    could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage
    or train our customer service representatives properly could
    compromise our ability to handle customer complaints
    effectively. If we do not handle customer complaints
    effectively, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our
    customers’ confidence.


 


    Because it is providing a financial service and operating in a
    more regulated environment, PayPal, unlike eBay, must provide
    telephone as well as email customer service and must resolve
    certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of
    PayPal’s program to reduce fraud losses, it may temporarily
    restrict the ability of customers to withdraw their funds if
    those funds or the customer’s account activity are
    identified by PayPal’s anti-fraud models as suspicious.
    PayPal has in the past received negative publicity with respect
    to its customer service and account restrictions, and has been
    the subject of purported class action lawsuits and state
    attorney general inquiries alleging,



    
    27



Table of Contents




    among other things, failure to resolve account restrictions
    promptly. If PayPal is unable to provide quality customer
    support operations in a cost-effective manner, PayPal’s
    users may have negative experiences, PayPal may receive
    additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new
    customers may be damaged, and it could become subject to
    additional litigation. As a result, current and future revenues
    could suffer, or its operating margins may decrease. In
    addition, negative publicity about or experiences with
    PayPal’s customer support could cause eBay’s
    reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in the eBay
    brands as a whole.


 



    Problems
    with third parties who provide services to us or to our users
    could harm our business.


 


    A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that
    benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and
    manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and
    interface with inventory management software, storefronts that
    help our users list items, and caching services that make our
    sites load faster, among others. In some cases we have
    contractual agreements with these companies that give us a
    direct financial interest in their success, while in other cases
    we have none. PayPal is dependent on the processing companies
    and banks that link PayPal to the credit card and bank clearing
    networks. Financial, regulatory, or other problems that prevent
    these companies from providing services to us or our users could
    reduce the number of listings on our websites or make completing
    transactions or payments on our websites more difficult, and
    thereby harm our business. Any security breach at one of these
    companies could also affect our customers and harm our business.
    Although we generally have been able to renew or extend the
    terms of contractual arrangements with these third party service
    providers on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we
    will continue to be able to do so in the future.


 



    We
    depend on key personnel.


 


    Our future performance depends substantially on the continued
    services of our senior management and other key personnel and
    our ability to retain and motivate them. The loss of the
    services of any of our executive officers or other key employees
    could harm our business. We do not have long-term employment
    agreements with any of our key personnel, we do not maintain any
    “key person” life insurance policies, and our Chief
    Executive Officer and many other members of our senior
    management team have fully vested the vast majority of their
    in-the-money
    equity incentives. Our new businesses all depend on attracting
    and retaining key personnel. Our future success also will depend
    on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly
    skilled technical, managerial, marketing, and customer support
    personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we
    may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain
    sufficiently qualified personnel. In making employment
    decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology
    industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock
    options they are to receive in connection with their employment.
    Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to
    retain and motivate employees whose stock option strike prices
    are substantially above current market prices. Similarly,
    decreases in the number of unvested
    in-the-money
    stock options held by existing employees, whether because our
    stock price has declined, options have vested, or because the
    size of follow-on option grants has declined, may make it more
    difficult to retain and motivate employees.


 


    Skype’s future success depends substantially upon the
    continued services of its senior management and key personnel,
    and the loss of their services could harm our business. Several
    key members of Skype’s engineering team are consultants,
    not full-time employees, who provide services to us and third
    parties. A number of Skype’s employees had equity in Skype
    prior to its acquisition by eBay. Skype equity holders were
    given the option of receiving their portion of the acquisition
    consideration in the form of a lump-sum up- front payment or
    receiving a lower up-front payment in exchange for the
    possibility of receiving additional consideration in the form of
    potential earn-out payments tied to the achievement of certain
    performance targets prior to June 30, 2009. Several key
    members of Skype’s senior management and key employees
    chose to receive less up-front consideration in exchange for the
    possibility of receiving the performance-based earn-out
    payments. Although eligible Skype employees have also been
    granted eBay stock options, the earn-out payments are not tied
    to continued employment with Skype or eBay, and key Skype
    employees may choose to depart because of differences in
    corporate culture, because they believe the earn-out targets
    will be achieved without their contributions, or because they
    believe the earn-out targets are not achievable. The loss of the
    services of any of Skype’s senior management or key
    personnel could delay the development and introduction of new
    features and products, and could harm our ability to grow
    Skype’s business.



    
    28



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    industry is intensely competitive, and other companies or
    governmental agencies may allege that our behavior is
    anti-competitive.


 



    Marketplaces


 


    Marketplaces businesses currently or potentially compete with a
    number of companies providing both particular categories of
    goods and broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new,
    rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale
    of all types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the
    future. The barriers to entry into these channels are relatively
    low, and current offline and new competitors can easily launch
    online sites at a nominal cost using commercially available
    software or partnering with any one of a number of successful
    e-commerce
    companies.


 


    Our broad-based competitors include the vast majority of
    traditional department, warehouse, discount, and general
    merchandise stores (as well as the online operations of these
    traditional retailers), emerging online retailers, online
    classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline
    and online home shopping networks. These include most
    prominently: Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC Penney,
    Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club,
    Amazon.com, Buy.com, AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC, and
    Home Shopping Network.


 


    A number of companies have launched a variety of services that
    provide new channels for buyers to find and buy items from
    sellers of all sizes, including online aggregation and
    classifieds sites such as Oodle.com, Google Base, and Microsoft
    Live Expo. In 2005, we acquired Shopping.com Ltd., an online
    shopping comparison site. Shopping.com competes with sites such
    as Buy.com, Google’s Froogle, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com,
    Shopzilla, and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping
    search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for
    specified products. Similarly, sellers are increasingly
    acquiring new customers by paying for search-related
    advertisements on search engine sites such as Google and Yahoo!.
    We use product search engines and paid search advertising to
    channel users to our sites, but these services also have the
    potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations.


 


    We also compete with many local, regional, and national
    specialty retailers and exchanges in each of the major
    categories of products offered on our site. For example,
    category-specific competitors to offerings in our
    Home & Garden category include: Ace Hardware, Baby
    Style, Baby Universe, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Brookstone,
    Burpee.com, Crate & Barrel, Do-It-Best Hardware, Ethan
    Allen, Frontgate, Harbor Freight, IKEA, HomeBase, Home Depot,
    Kohl’s, Lamps Plus, Lowes, Linens ’n Things, OSH,
    Pier One, Pottery Barn, Restoration Hardware, Smith &
    Hawken, Spiegel, Tuesday Morning, True Value Hardware, and
    Williams-Sonoma.


 


    Our international Marketplaces websites compete with similar
    online and offline channels in each of their vertical categories
    in most countries. In addition, they compete with general online
    e-commerce
    sites, such as Quelle and Otto in Germany, Yahoo-Kimo in Taiwan,
    Daum and Gmarket in South Korea, and Amazon in the United
    Kingdom and other countries. In some of these countries, there
    are online sites that have much larger customer bases and
    greater brand recognition than we do, and in certain of these
    jurisdictions there are competitors that may have a better
    understanding of local culture and commerce than we do.


 


    The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    ability to attract buyers and sellers;



 


     
        • 

    
    volume of transactions and price and selection of goods;



 


     
        • 

    
    customer service; and



 


     
        • 

    
    brand recognition.





 


    With respect to our online competition, additional competitive
    factors include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    community cohesion, interaction and size;



 


     
        • 

    
    website
    ease-of-use
    and accessibility;



 


     
        • 

    
    system reliability;



 


     
        • 

    
    reliability of delivery and payment;






    
    29



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    level of service fees; and



 


     
        • 

    
    quality of search tools.





 


    Some current and potential competitors have longer operating
    histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition
    in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other online
    trading services may be acquired by, receive investments from,
    or enter into other commercial relationships with larger,
    well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some
    of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to
    devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns,
    adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially
    more resources to website and systems development than we can.
    Some of our competitors have offered services for free and
    others may do this as well. We may be unable to compete
    successfully against current and future competitors. In
    addition, certain offline competitors may encourage
    manufacturers to limit or cease distribution of their products
    to dealers who sell through online channels such as eBay, or may
    attempt to use existing or future government regulation to
    prohibit or limit online commerce in certain categories of goods
    or services. The adoption by manufacturers or government
    authorities of policies or regulations discouraging the sales of
    goods or services over the Internet could force eBay users to
    stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased
    competition or anti-Internet distribution policies or
    regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of
    market share and diminished value of our brand.


 


    Conversely, other companies and government agencies have in the
    past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the
    antitrust or competition laws of the U.S. or other
    countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Such
    claims, even if without foundation, typically are very expensive
    to defend, involve negative publicity and diversion of
    management time and effort, and could result in significant
    judgments against us.


 


    In order to respond to changes in the competitive environment,
    we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing
    decisions or acquisitions that could harm our profitability. For
    example, PayPal has implemented a buyer protection program
    generally covering losses for eBay transactions paid with PayPal
    up to $200 and covering losses from selected eBay sellers up to
    $2,000, with no deductible. Depending on the amount and size of
    claims we receive under these programs, these product offerings
    could harm our profitability. Similarly, in July 2006 we
    announced pricing and product changes related to our store
    inventory format that may reduce the revenue and profits of that
    format. In addition, certain competitors may offer or continue
    to offer free shipping or other transaction related services,
    which could be impractical or inefficient for eBay users to
    match. New technologies may increase the competitive pressures
    by enabling our competitors to offer a lower cost service.


 


    Although we have established Internet traffic arrangements with
    several large online services and search engine companies, these
    arrangements may not be renewed on commercially reasonable terms
    or these companies may decide to promote competitive services.
    Even if these arrangements are renewed, they may not result in
    increased usage of our services. In addition, companies that
    control user access to transactions through network access,
    Internet browsers, or search engines, could promote our
    competitors, channel current or potential users to their
    vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their
    advertisers’ sites, attempt to restrict our access, or
    charge us substantial fees for inclusion. Search engines may
    increasingly become a starting point for online shopping, and as
    the costs of operating an online store decline, online sellers
    may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels, which
    could reduce the number and value of transactions these sellers
    conduct through our sites.


 



    PayPal


 


    The market for PayPal’s product is emerging, intensely
    competitive, and characterized by rapid technological change.
    PayPal competes with existing online and off-line payment
    methods, including, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    credit card merchant processors that offer their services to
    online merchants, including Cardservice International, Chase
    Paymentech, First Data, iPayment and Wells Fargo; and payment
    gateways, including CyberSource and Authorize.net;



 


     
        • 

    
    money remitters such as MoneyGram and Western Union;



 


     
        • 

    
    bill payment services, including CheckFree;






    
    30



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    processors that provide online merchants the ability to offer
    their customers the option of paying for purchases from their
    bank account, including Certegy, PayByTouch and TeleCheck, a
    subsidiary of First Data, or to pay on credit, including Bill Me
    Later;



 


     
        • 

    
    providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit
    cards, checks, money orders, and Automated Clearing House
    transactions;



 


     
        • 

    
    issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including
    VisaBuxx, NetSpend and Next Estate; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Google Checkout, which enables the online payment of merchants
    using credit cards.





 


    Some of these competitors have longer operating histories,
    significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer
    service and other resources, greater name recognition, or a
    larger base of customers in affiliated businesses than PayPal.
    PayPal’s competitors may respond to new or emerging
    technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and
    more effectively than PayPal. They may devote greater resources
    to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services
    than PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example,
    Google Checkout recently extended its free payment processing
    promotion through the end of 2007. Promotions such as this may
    force PayPal to lower its prices in response. Competing services
    tied to established banks and other financial institutions may
    offer greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence
    in the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal.


 


    Overseas, PayPal faces competition from similar channels and
    payment methods. In each country, numerous banks provide
    standard online credit card acquiring and processing services,
    and these banks typically have leading market share. In
    addition, PayPal faces competition from Visa’s Visa Direct,
    MasterCard’s MoneySend, and Royal Bank of Scotland’s
    World Pay and Webpay International’s Click & Buy
    in the European Community, NOCHEX, Moneybookers, NETeller and
    FirePay in the United Kingdom, CertaPay and HyperWallet in
    Canada, Paymate in Australia, Alipay and 99Bill in China and
    Inicis in South Korea. In addition, in certain countries, such
    as Germany and Australia, electronic funds transfer is a leading
    method of payment for both online and offline transactions. As
    in the U.S., established banks and other financial institutions
    that do not currently offer online payments could quickly and
    easily develop such a service.


 



    Skype


 


    The market for Skype’s products is also emerging, intensely
    competitive, and characterized by rapid technological change.
    Many traditional telecommunications carriers and cable providers
    offer, or have indicated that they plan to offer, VoIP products
    or services that compete with the software Skype provides. In
    addition, many established Internet companies, including AOL,
    Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo, as well as newer companies, offer,
    or have indicated that they plan to offer in the near future,
    products that are similar to Skype’s. We expect competitors
    to continue to improve the performance of their current products
    and introduce new products, software, services, and
    technologies. If Skype’s competitors successfully introduce
    new products or enhance their existing products, this could
    reduce the market for Skype’s products, increase price
    competition, or make Skype’s products obsolete, which could
    lower Skype’s adoption rates, decrease its ability to
    attract new users or cause its current users to migrate to a
    competing company. In addition, some of Skype’s
    competitors, such as telecommunications carriers and cable
    television providers, may be able to bundle services and
    products that Skype does not offer. These could include various
    forms of wireless communications, voice and data services,
    Internet access, and cable television. This form of bundling
    would put Skype at a competitive disadvantage if these providers
    can combine a variety of service offerings at a single
    attractive price. Furthermore, competitors may choose to make
    their services interoperable with one another, rather than
    proprietary, which could increase the attractiveness of their
    services relative to Skype and decrease the value of
    Skype’s network of users.


 


    Many of Skype’s current and potential competitors have
    longer operating histories, are substantially larger, and have
    greater financial, marketing, technical, and other resources.
    Some also have greater name recognition and a larger installed
    base of customers than Skype has. As a result of their greater
    resources, many current and potential competitors may be able to
    lower their prices substantially, thereby eroding some or all of
    Skype’s cost advantage.



    
    31



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    operations in China are subject to risks and uncertainties
    relating to the laws and regulations of the People’s
    Republic of China.


 


    Our operations in the People’s Republic of China, or PRC,
    are conducted through our EachNet subsidiary, a recently
    announced joint venture between EachNet and Tom Online, and a
    PayPal subsidiary. EachNet and PayPal are Delaware corporations
    and foreign persons under the laws of the PRC are subject to
    many of the risks of doing business internationally described
    above in “There are many risks associated with our
    international operations.” The PRC currently regulates its
    Internet sector through regulations restricting the scope of
    foreign investment and through the enforcement of content
    restrictions on the Internet. While many aspects of these
    regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require
    licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet
    information services. These regulations have created substantial
    uncertainties regarding the legality of foreign investments in
    PRC Internet companies, including the entities through which we
    do business in the PRC, and the business operations of such
    companies. In order to meet local ownership and regulatory
    licensing requirements, EachNet is operated through a
    foreign-owned enterprise indirectly owned by eBay’s
    European operating entity, which acts in cooperation with a
    local PRC company owned by certain local employees. The PayPal
    China website is operated through a foreign-owned enterprise
    owned by a PayPal subsidiary, which acts in cooperation with a
    local PRC company owned by certain local employees. We believe
    the current ownership structures of EachNet, the joint venture
    between EachNet and Tom Online, and PayPal comply with all
    existing PRC laws, rules, and regulations. There are, however,
    substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of
    current PRC laws and regulations, and it is possible that the
    PRC government will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. The
    People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, has recently proposed
    guidelines for payment settlement organizations which may
    require PayPal to identify and negotiate a new business
    relationship to act in cooperation with a local PRC entity that
    is not owned by local employees and has a substantial operating
    history, and to obtain prior approval of the relationship from
    the PBOC. There are also uncertainties regarding EachNet’s
    and PayPal’s ability to enforce contractual relationships
    they have entered into with respect to management and control of
    the company’s business. If any of the entities through
    which we do business in the PRC were found to be in violation of
    any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, they could be
    subject to fines and other financial penalties, have their
    business and Internet content provider licenses revoked, or be
    forced to discontinue business entirely. In addition, any
    finding of a violation of PRC laws or regulations by any of the
    entities through which we do business in the PRC could make it
    more difficult for us to launch new or expanded services in the
    PRC.


 


    Although Skype does not conduct operations in the PRC directly,
    it makes its software available through a joint venture with Tom
    Online and its software is used by residents of the PRC. PRC
    regulations surrounding VoIP telephony are unclear and the PRC
    or one or more of its provinces may adopt regulations or enforce
    existing regulations that restrict or prohibit the use of
    Skype’s software.


 



    Our
    business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our
    users to spend less time on our websites, including seasonal
    factors, national events and increased usage of other
    websites.


 


    Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of
    usage of our websites could adversely affect our business. We
    would therefore be adversely affected by geopolitical events
    such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and
    natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Similarly,
    our results of operations historically have been seasonal
    because many of our users reduce their activities on our
    websites with the onset of good weather during the summer
    months, and on and around national holidays. In addition,
    increased usage of social networking or other entertainment
    websites may decrease the amount of time users spend on our
    websites, which could adversely affect our financial results.


 



    We
    depend on the continued growth of online commerce and
    communications.


 


    The business of selling goods over the Internet, particularly
    through online trading, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns
    about fraud, privacy, and other problems may discourage
    additional consumers from adopting the Internet as a medium of
    commerce. In countries such as the U.S. and Germany, where our
    services and online commerce generally have been available for
    some time and the level of market penetration of our services is
    high, acquiring new users for our services may be more difficult
    and costly than it has been in the past. In order to expand our
    user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who
    historically have used traditional means of commerce



    
    32



Table of Contents




    to purchase goods. If these consumers prove to be less active
    than our earlier users, and we are unable to gain efficiencies
    in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new
    customers, our business could be adversely impacted.


 


    The success of Skype depends on continued growth in its number
    of users, which in turn depends on wider public acceptance of
    VoIP. The VoIP communications medium is still in its early
    stages, and it may not develop a broad audience. Skype users may
    be required to purchase computer headsets, or leave a personal
    computer on to communicate, and they may believe that the price
    advantage for VoIP is insufficient to justify the perceived
    inconvenience. Potential users may also view more familiar
    online communication methods, such as
    e-mail or
    instant messaging, as sufficient for their communications needs.
    Managers of some large private branch exchange, or PBX, systems
    in businesses, universities, government agencies, and other
    institutions may refuse to allow the use of Skype due to
    concerns over security, server usage, or for other reasons. If
    VoIP does not achieve wide public acceptance, our Skype business
    will be adversely affected.


 



    Our
    business depends on the development and maintenance of the
    Internet infrastructure.


 


    The success of our services will depend largely on the
    development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This
    includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the
    necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely
    development of complementary products, for providing reliable
    Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and
    is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the
    numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet
    infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In
    addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth
    requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,”
    “worms,” and similar programs may harm the performance
    of the Internet. The backbone computers of the Internet have
    been the targets of such programs. The Internet has experienced
    a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to
    portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and
    delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the
    level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage
    of our services.


 



    We may
    be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property
    rights adequately.


 


    We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, patents,
    domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets as critical to our
    success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property
    rights by relying on a combination of trademark, copyright,
    patent, trade dress and trade secret laws, and through the
    domain name dispute resolution system. We also rely on
    contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in
    products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and
    invention assignment agreements with our employees and
    contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with
    whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and
    disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual
    arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our
    intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our
    technology or deter independent development of similar
    technologies by others. We pursue the registration of our domain
    names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and
    internationally. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain
    name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is very expensive
    to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our
    trademarks, patents, and domain names in an increasing number of
    jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be
    successful in every location. For example, Skype is in the
    process of applying to register the Skype name as a trademark
    worldwide. In the EU, Skype’s application is being opposed.
    If this opposition to Skype’s application were to be
    successful, Skype might be forced to apply for trademark
    registration in each individual EU country, resulting in
    increased expenditures and damage to its business if its
    application were rejected in individual countries. We have
    licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future,
    certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or
    copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take
    actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or
    harm our reputation.



    
    33



Table of Contents



 



    We are
    subject to the risks of owning real property.


 


    We own real property, including land and buildings related to
    our operations. We have little experience in managing real
    property. Ownership of this property subjects us to risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs
    associated with fixing any environmental problems;



 


     
        • 

    
    adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to
    interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhoods in which the
    properties are located, or other factors;



 


     
        • 

    
    the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply
    with zoning, seismic, disability act, or other
    requirements; and



 


     
        • 

    
    possible disputes with tenants, neighboring owners, or others.





 



    Some
    anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common
    stock.


 


    Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to
    10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the
    preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any
    further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the
    holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the
    holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.
    Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws
    could have the effect of making it more difficult for a
    potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding
    voting stock. These include provisions that provide for a
    classified board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking
    action by written consent and restrict the ability of
    stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to
    provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any
    business combination with any interested stockholder for a
    period of three years from the date the person became an
    interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This
    restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a
    change of control.


 



    ITEM 1B