Item 1A of this Form 10-K, entitled Risk Factors. 
Item 1.  Business.
 
Item 1(a) General Development of Business.
 
Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924.  Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31.
 
During 2010, we took the following actions to continue to build our business:
 
·                  We completed the roll out of the Ecolab Business Solution (“EBS”), the implementation of a common set of business processes and systems, in the majority of our European operations.  We also began implementation of EBS in China.
 
·                  In September 2010, we acquired the commercial laundry division of Dober Chemical Corp.  The acquisition strengthens our U.S. and Canada Textile Care business by adding customer relationships and business scale, as well as important customer technology.  The acquired business has annual sales of approximately $37 million and became part of the Company’s U.S. Cleaning & Sanitizing and International operations.
 
·                  In November 2010, we announced an agreement to purchase selected assets of O.R. Solutions, Inc., a privately-held developer and marketer of surgical fluid warming and cooling systems in the United States.  Annual sales of the business to be acquired are approximately $55 million.  Completion of the transaction remains subject to receipt of regulatory clearance
and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions.
 
2






Table of Contents
 
·                  In December 2010, subsequent to our 2010 fiscal year-end for International operations, we purchased selected assets of the Cleantec business of Campbell Brothers Ltd., in Australia.  Cleantec is a developer, manufacturer and marketer of cleaning and hygiene products. The business, which has annual sales of approximately $55 million, became part of our International operations in the first quarter of 2011.
 
In early 2011, subsequent to our 2010 year-end, significant developments included a $100 million voluntary contribution in January to our U.S. pension plan, and in February we repaid our $150 million 6.875% notes when they became due.  Separately, in February 2011, we announced that we are developing plans for an accelerated restructuring of our European operations leveraging the new EBS platform in order to streamline the organization, improve efficiency and competitiveness, and more rapidly improve the region’s profitability.
 
Item 1(b) Financial Information About Operating Segments.
 
The financial information about reportable segments appearing under the heading “Operating Segments” in Note 16, located on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 1(c) Narrative Description of Business.
 
General: Ecolab develops and markets premium products and services for the hospitality, foodservice, healthcare and industrial markets. We provide cleaning and sanitizing products and programs, as well as pest elimination, maintenance and repair services primarily to customers in the foodservice, food and beverage processing, hospitality, healthcare, government and education, retail, textile care, commercial facilities management and vehicle wash sectors.  A strong commitment to customer support and sustainable solutions is a distinguishing characteristic of our business.  Additional information on our business philosophy is found below under the heading “Additional Information — Competition” of this Item 1(c). 
The following description of our business is based upon our three reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements.  However, we pursue a “Circle the Customer — Circle the Globe” strategy by providing products, systems and services which serve our customer base, and do so on a global basis to meet the needs of our customers’ various operations around the world.  Therefore, one customer may utilize the products or services of all three of the segments, and there is interdependence among the operating segments.
 
United States Cleaning & Sanitizing Segment
 
The “United States Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment is comprised of six business units which provide cleaning and sanitizing products and programs to United States markets.
 
Institutional: The Institutional Division is our largest division and sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment (“warewashing”), for on-premise laundries (typically used by hotel and healthcare customers) and for general housekeeping functions, as well as food safety products and equipment, water filters, dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging, educational and healthcare industries. The Institutional Division also provides pool and spa treatment programs for hospitality and other commercial customers, as well as a broad range of janitorial cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers in hospitality, health care and commercial facilities. The Institutional Division develops and markets various chemical dispensing device systems, which are made available to customers, to dispense our cleaners and sanitizers. In addition, the Institutional Division markets a lease program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance. 
3






Table of Contents
 
We believe that we are the leading supplier of chemical warewashing products and programs to institutions in the United States.
 
The Institutional Division sells its products and programs primarily through company-employed field sales personnel. We also utilize independent, third-party foodservice, broad-line and janitorial distributors to provide logistics to end customers for accounts that prefer to purchase through these distributors.  Many of these distributors also participate in marketing our product and service offerings to the end customers. We generally provide the same customer support to accounts supplied by these distributors as we do to direct customers.
 
Food & Beverage: Our Food & Beverage Division addresses cleaning and sanitation at the beginning of the food chain to facilitate the processing of products for human consumption. The Division provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food processors. The Food & Beverage Division is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during processing in order to reduce microbial contamination. The Food & Beverage Division also designs, engineers and installs CIP (“clean-in-place”) process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base.  Products for use on farms are sold through dealers and independent, third-party distributors, while products for use in processing facilities are sold primarily by our field sales personnel. Also within the Food & Beverage Division, our Water, Energy & Waste business offers sustainable solutions designed to reduce our customers’ operational costs.  This is performed through water treatment programs for heating, cooling and filtration processes, along with customized wastewater treatment offerings. 
We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm, food, meat and poultry, and beverage/brewery processor industries in the United States.
 
Kay:  Ecolab’s Kay business unit supplies cleaning and sanitizing chemical products and related items primarily to regional,  national and international quick service restaurant (QSR) chains and to regional and national food retailers (i.e., supermarkets and grocery stores).  Its products include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted cleaning tools and equipment which are primarily sold under the “Kay” and “Ecolab” brand names.  Kay’s cleaning and sanitation programs are customized to meet the needs of the market segments it serves and are designed to provide highly effective cleaning performance, promote food safety, reduce labor costs and enhance user and guest safety.  A number of product dispensing options are available for products in the core product range.  Kay supports its product sales with employee training programs and technical support designed to meet the special needs of its customers. 
Both Kay’s QSR business and its food retail business utilize a corporate account sales force which establishes relationships and negotiates contracts with customers at the corporate headquarters and regional office levels (and, in the QSR market segment, at the franchisee level) and a field sales force which provides program support at the individual restaurant or store level.  Customers in the QSR market segment are primarily supplied through third party distributors while most food retail customers utilize their own distribution networks.
 
We believe that Kay is the leading supplier of chemical cleaning and sanitizing products to the QSR market segment and the food retail market segment in the United States.  While Kay’s customer base has grown over the years, Kay’s business remains largely dependent upon a limited number of major QSR chains and franchisees and large food retail customers.
 
4






Table of Contents
 
Healthcare: Our Healthcare Division provides infection prevention and other healthcare related offerings to acute care hospitals, surgery centers, dental offices and veterinary clinics.  The Healthcare Division’s proprietary infection prevention products (hand hygiene, hard surface disinfectants, instrument cleaners, patient drapes, fluid control products and equipment drapes) are sold primarily under the “Ecolab” and “Microtek” brand names to various departments within the acute care environment (Infection Control, Environmental Services, Central Sterile and Operating Room).  The Healthcare Division’s Microtek Medical business, is a leader in niche branded specialty surgical drapes and fluid control products.  The Healthcare Division sells its products and programs primarily through company-employed field sales personnel but also sells through healthcare distributors. 
Textile Care: Our Textile Care Division provides chemical laundry products and proprietary dispensing systems, as well as related programs, to large industrial and commercial laundries.  Typically these customers include free-standing laundry plants used by institutions such as hotels, restaurants and healthcare facilities as well as industrial and textile rental laundries. Products and programs include laundry cleaning and specialty products, related dispensing equipment, plus water and energy management which are marketed primarily through company-employed field sales personnel and, to a lesser extent, through independent, third-party distributors. The Textile Care Division’s programs are designed to meet our customers’ needs for exceptional cleaning, while extending the useful life of linen and reducing the customers’ overall operating cost. 
Vehicle Care: Our Vehicle Care Division provides vehicle appearance products which include soaps, polishes, sealants, wheel and tire treatments and air fresheners. Products are sold to vehicle rental, fleet and consumer car wash and detail operations. Brand names utilized by the Vehicle Care Division include Blue CoralÒ, Black MagicÒ and Rain-XÒ. 
United States Other Services Segment
 
The “United States Other Services” segment is comprised of two business units:  Pest Elimination and GCS Service. In general, these businesses provide service or equipment which can augment or extend our product offering to our business customers as a part of our “Circle the Customer” approach.
 
Pest Elimination: Our Pest Elimination Division provides services designed to detect, eliminate and prevent pests, such as rodents and insects, in restaurants, food and beverage processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick service restaurant and grocery operations and other institutional and commercial customers. These services are sold and performed by company-employed field sales and service personnel. In addition, through our EcoSure Food Safety Management business, we provide customized on-site evaluations, training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations.
 
GCS Service: GCS Service provides equipment repair and maintenance services for the commercial food service industry. Repair services are offered for in-warranty repair, acting as the manufacturer’s authorized service agent, as well as after warranty repair. In addition, GCS Service operates as a parts distributor to repair service companies and end users.
 
International Segment
 
We conduct business in approximately 72 countries outside of the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in the case of Venezuela, through a joint venture with a local partner. In other countries, selected products are sold by our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall revenues. Our largest International operations are located in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Canada, with smaller operations in Africa and the Middle East.
 
5






Table of Contents
 
In general, the businesses conducted internationally are similar to those conducted in the United States but are managed on a geographic basis. The businesses which are similar to the United States’ Institutional and Food & Beverage businesses are the largest businesses in our International operations. They are conducted in virtually all of our International locations and, compared to the United States, constitute a larger portion of the overall business. Healthcare and Textile Care are also significant businesses in our International operations, particularly in Europe. Kay has sales in a number of International locations. A significant portion of Kay’s international sales are to international units of United States-based quick service restaurant chains. Consequently, a substantial portion of Kay’s international sales are made either to domestic or internationally-located third-party distributors who serve these chains. 
Our Pest Elimination business continues to expand its geographic coverage. We operate this business in various countries in Asia Pacific, Western Europe, Latin America and South Africa, with the largest operations in France and the United Kingdom.
 
Our other businesses are conducted less extensively in our International locations. However, in general, most of the principal businesses conducted in the United States are also operated in Canada.
 
International businesses are subject to the usual risks of foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions abroad. The profitability of our International operations has historically been lower than the profitability of our businesses in the United States, due to (i) the smaller scale of International operations where many operating locations are smaller in size, (ii) the additional cost of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions and (iii) higher costs of importing certain raw materials and finished goods in some regions.  Proportionately larger investments in sales, technical support and administrative personnel are also necessary in order to facilitate the growth of our International operations.
 
Additional Information
 
Competition: Our business units have two significant classes of competitors. First, each business unit competes with a small number of large companies selling directly or through distributors on a national or international scale. Second, all of our business units have numerous smaller regional or local competitors which focus on more limited geographies, product lines and/or end-user segments.
 
Our objective is to achieve a significant presence in each of our business markets. In general, competition is based on customer support, product performance and price. We believe we compete principally by providing superior value, premium customer support and differentiated products to help our customers protect their brand reputation. Value is provided by state-of-the-art cleaning, sanitation and maintenance products and systems coupled with high customer support standards and continuing dedication to customer satisfaction. This is made possible, in part, by our significant on-going investment in training and technology and by our standard practice of advising customers on ways to lower operating costs and helping them comply with safety, environmental and sanitation regulations. In addition to our consultative approach, we emphasize our ability to uniformly provide a variety of related premium cleaning and sanitation programs to our customers and to provide that level of customer support to multiple locations of chain customer organizations worldwide. This approach is succinctly stated in our “Circle the Customer - Circle the Globe” strategy which is discussed above in this Item 1(c) under the heading “General.” 
Sales: Products, systems and services are primarily marketed in domestic and international markets by company-trained field sales personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the proper and efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full range of cleaning and sanitation needs. Independent, third-party distributors are utilized in several markets, as described in the business unit descriptions found under the discussion of the three reportable segments above.
 
6






Table of Contents
 
Number of Employees: We had approximately 26,500 employees as of December 31, 2010.
 
Customers and Classes of Products: We believe that our business is not materially dependent upon a single customer although, as described above in this Item 1(c) under the description of the Kay business, Kay is largely dependent upon a limited number of national and international quick service chains and franchisees. Additionally, although we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material negative effect on results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our financial position. No material part of our business is subject to renegotiation or termination at the election of a governmental unit. We sell two classes of products which each constitute 10 percent or more of our sales. Sales of warewashing products in 2010, 2009 and 2008 approximated 19 percent of our consolidated net sales. In addition, through our Institutional and Textile Care businesses around the world, we sell laundry products and provide customer support to a broad range of laundry customers. Sales of laundry products and services in 2010, 2009 and 2008 approximated 10, 11 and 11 percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. 
Patents and Trademarks: We own and license a number of patents, trademarks and other intellectual property. While we have an active program to protect our intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks, and pursuing legal action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, we do not believe that our overall business is materially dependent on any individual patent or trademark.
 
Seasonality: We do experience variability in our quarterly operating results due to seasonal sales volume and business mix fluctuations in our operating segments. Note 17, entitled “Quarterly Financial Data” located on page 42 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Working Capital: We have invested in the past, and will continue to invest in the future, in merchandising equipment consisting primarily of systems used by customers to dispense our cleaning and sanitizing products. Otherwise, we have no unusual working capital requirements.
 
Manufacturing and Distribution: We manufacture most of our products and related equipment in Company-operated manufacturing facilities. Some products are also produced for us by third-party contract manufacturers. Other products and equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers. Additional information on product/equipment sourcing is found in the segment discussions above and additional information on our manufacturing facilities is located beginning at page 16 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Properties.”
 
Deliveries to customers are made from our manufacturing plants and a network of distribution centers and third-party logistics service providers. We use common carriers, our own delivery vehicles, and distributors for transport. Additional information on our plant and distribution facilities is located beginning at page 16 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Properties.”
 
Raw Materials: Raw materials purchased for use in manufacturing our products are inorganic chemicals, including alkalis, acids, phosphorous materials, silicates and salts, and organic chemicals, including surfactants and solvents. These materials are generally purchased on an annual contract basis from a diverse group of chemical manufacturers. When practical, global sourcing is used so that purchasing or production locations can be shifted to control product costs at globally competitive levels. Our Healthcare Division purchases plastic films and parts to manufacture medical devices that serve the surgical and infection prevention markets.  Pesticides used by our Pest Elimination Division are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order from the producers or their distributors. We also purchase packaging materials for our manufactured products and components for our specialized cleaning equipment and systems. Most raw materials, or substitutes for those materials,  
7






Table of Contents
 
used by us, with the exception of a few specialized chemicals which we manufacture, are available from several suppliers.
 
Research and Development: Our research and development program consists principally of devising and testing new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, and evaluating the environmental compatibility of products. Key disciplines include analytical and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process and packaging engineering and product dispensing technology. Substantially all of our principal products have been developed by our research, development and engineering personnel. At times, technology has also been licensed from third parties to develop offerings. Note 13, entitled “Research Expenditures” located on page 36 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Environmental and Regulatory Considerations: Our businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and public health. While we cooperate with governmental authorities and take commercially practicable measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or limit environmental effects, some risks are inherent in our businesses. Among the risks are costs associated with transporting and managing hazardous materials and waste disposal and plant site clean-up, fines and penalties if we are found to be in violation of law, as well as modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain operations or types of operations including product recalls and reformulations. Additionally, although we are not currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no assurance that future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Environmental and regulatory matters most significant to us are discussed below. 
Ingredient Legislation: Various laws and regulations have been enacted by state, local and foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of products which contain phosphorous, volatile organic compounds, or other ingredients that may impact human health or the environment. Under California Proposition 65, label disclosures are required for certain products containing chemicals listed by California. Chemical management initiatives that promote pollution prevention through research and development of safer chemicals and safer chemical processes are being advanced by certain states, including California, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota and Oregon.  Environmentally preferable purchasing programs for cleaning products have been enacted in nine states to date, and in 2010 were considered by several other state legislatures.  Cleaning product ingredient disclosure legislation was re-introduced in the U.S. Congress in 2010 but did not pass, and several states including California and New York are considering further regulations in this area.  To date, we generally have been able to comply with such legislative requirements by reformulation or labeling modifications. Such legislation has not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows to date. 
TSCA:  Re-authorization of the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) and an update of the chemicals on the TSCA Inventory (the so-called “reset” of the TSCA Inventory) are being discussed in the U.S. Congress.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is also more aggressively using the existing TSCA tools to manage chemicals of concern.  Ecolab anticipates that compliance with new requirements under TSCA could be similar to the costs associated with REACH in the European Union, which is discussed below.
 
REACH: The European Union has enacted a new regulatory framework for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”). It established a new European Chemicals Agency (“ECHA”) in Helsinki, Finland, which is responsible for evaluating data to determine hazards and risks and to manage this program for authorizing chemicals for sale and distribution in Europe. Ecolab has met the pre-registration requirements of REACH, the 2010 registration deadline, and is on track to meet the upcoming registration deadlines and requirements in 2013 and beyond.  To help manage 
 
8






Table of Contents
 
this new program, Ecolab is simplifying its product line and working with chemical suppliers to comply with registration requirements.  The impact of REACH will also be felt by our competitors. Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but are not expected to have a material adverse effect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
GHS:  In 2003, the United Nations issued a standard on hazard communication and labeling of chemical products known as the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (“GHS”). GHS is designed to facilitate international trade and increase safe handling and use of hazardous chemicals through a worldwide system that classifies chemicals based on their intrinsic hazards and communicates information about those hazards through standardized product labels and safety data sheets (“SDSs”). Most countries in which we operate will adopt GHS-related legislation, and a few countries already have done so. The primary cost of compliance revolves around reclassifying products and revising SDSs and product labels, and we are working toward a phased-in approach to mitigate the costs of GHS implementation.  The impact of GHS will also be felt by our competitors.  Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
Pesticide and Biocide Legislation: Various international, federal and state environmental laws and regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of pesticides. We manufacture and sell certain disinfecting and sanitizing products which kill or reduce microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on hard environmental surfaces and on certain food products. Such products constitute “pesticides” or “antimicrobial pesticides” under the current definitions of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), as amended by the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996, the principal federal statute governing the manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides. We maintain approximately 210 product registrations with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). Registration entails the necessity to meet certain efficacy, toxicity and labeling requirements and to pay on-going registration fees. In addition, each state in which these products are sold requires registration and payment of a fee. In general, the states impose no substantive requirements different from those required by FIFRA. However, California and certain other states have adopted additional regulatory programs, and California imposes a tax on total pesticide sales in that state. While the cost of complying with rules as to pesticides has not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows to date, the costs and delays in receiving necessary approvals for these products continue to increase. Total fees paid to the EPA and the states to obtain or maintain pesticide registrations, and for the California tax, were approximately $3,000,000 in 2010 and $3,100,000 in 2009. 
In Europe, the Biocidal Product Directive (“BPD”) established a program to evaluate and authorize marketing of biocidal active substances and products. We are working with suppliers and industry groups to manage requirements associated with the BPD, and have met the first relevant deadline of the program by the timely submission of dossiers for active substances. Anticipated registration costs, which will be incurred through the multi-year BPD phase-in period, will be significant; however, these costs are not expected to significantly affect our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period, or our financial position.
 
9






Table of Contents
 
In addition, our Pest Elimination Division applies restricted-use pesticides that it generally purchases from third parties. That Division must comply with certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the licensing of employees who apply such pesticides. Such regulations are enforced primarily by the states or local jurisdictions in conformity with federal regulations. We have not experienced material difficulties in complying with these requirements.
 
FDA Antimicrobial Product Requirements: Various laws and regulations have been enacted by federal, state, local and foreign jurisdictions regulating certain products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals, foods and medical devices. In the United States, these requirements generally are administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and EPA also may share in regulatory jurisdiction of antimicrobials applied to food. The FDA codifies “Good Manufacturing Practices” for these products in order to ensure product quality, safety and effectiveness.  The FDA also has been expanding requirements applicable to such products, including proposing regulations in a Tentative Final Monograph for Healthcare Antiseptic Drug Products dated June 17, 1994, which may impose additional requirements associated with antimicrobial hand care products and associated costs when finalized by the FDA. To date, such requirements have not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
FDA Medical Device and Drug Product Requirements:  As a manufacturer and marketer of medical devices, we also are subject to regulation by the FDA and corresponding regulatory agencies of the state, local and foreign governments in which we sell our products.  These regulations govern the development, testing, packaging, labeling and marketing of medical devices and manufacturing procedures relating to these devices.  We also are required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, which require that we have a quality system for the design and production of our products intended for commercial distribution in the United States and satisfy recordkeeping requirements with respect to our manufacturing, testing and control activities.  Countries in the European Union require that certain products being sold within their jurisdictions obtain a “CE mark”, an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards, and be manufactured in compliance with certain requirements (e.g., ISO standard 13485).  We have CE mark approval to sell various medical device products in Europe.  Our other international non-European operations also are subject to government regulation and country-specific rules and regulations.  Regulators at the federal, state and local level have imposed, are currently considering and are expected to continue to impose regulations on medical and other waste.  No prediction can be made of the potential effect of any such future regulations, and there can be no assurance that future legislation or regulations will not increase the costs of our products or prohibit the sale or use of certain products. 
Other Environmental Legislation: Our manufacturing plants are subject to federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations relating to discharge of hazardous substances into the environment and to the transportation, handling and disposal of such substances. The primary federal statutes that apply to our activities in the United States are the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to emissions of hazardous substances into the air, land and water. Similar legal requirements apply to Ecolab’s facilities globally.  We make capital investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, to ensure employee safety and to carry out our announced environmental sustainability principles. To date, such expenditures have not had a significant adverse  
10






Table of Contents
 
effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our capital expenditures for environmental health and safety projects worldwide were approximately $5,700,000 in 2010 and $3,768,000 in 2009.  Approximately $10,800,000 has been budgeted globally for projects in 2011.
 
Climate Change: Various laws and regulations pertaining to climate change have been implemented or are being considered for implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels, particularly as they relate to the reduction of greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. None of these laws and regulations directly applies to Ecolab at the present time; however, as a matter of corporate policy, Ecolab supports a balanced approach to reducing GHG emissions while sustaining economic growth and competitiveness. Ecolab has joined U.S. EPA’s Climate Leaders program, and as part of that program we have pledged a U.S. GHG emission reduction goal of 20% per dollar sales from 2006 to 2012.  To achieve this target we have developed a GHG inventory of the six major greenhouse gases and report progress annually based on detailed U.S. EPA protocols and guidance. 
Environmental Remediation and Proceedings: Along with numerous other potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”), we are currently involved with waste disposal site clean-up activities imposed by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or state equivalents at 15 sites in the United States. Additionally, we have similar liability at five sites outside the United States. In general, under CERCLA, we and each other PRP that actually contributes hazardous substances to a Superfund site are jointly and severally liable for the costs associated with cleaning up the site. Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to agree and implement a plan for site remediation.
 
Based on an analysis of our experience with such environmental proceedings, our estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the sites referred to in the preceding paragraph, and our estimate of the contribution to be made by other PRPs which we believe have the financial ability to pay their shares, we have accrued our best estimate of our probable future costs relating to such known sites. Unasserted claims are not reflected in the accrual. In establishing accruals, potential insurance reimbursements are not included. The accrual is not discounted. It is not feasible to predict when the amounts accrued will be paid due to the uncertainties inherent in the environmental remediation and associated regulatory processes.
 
Our worldwide net expenditures for contamination remediation were approximately $ 1,300,000 in 2010 and $1,725,000 in 2009.  Our worldwide accruals at December 31, 2010 for probable future remediation expenditures, excluding potential insurance reimbursements, totaled approximately $2,600,000. We review our exposure for contamination remediation costs periodically and our accruals are adjusted as considered appropriate. While the final resolution of these issues could result in costs below or above current accruals and, therefore, have an impact on our consolidated financial results in a future reporting period, we believe the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Item 1(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas.
 
The financial information about geographic areas appearing under the heading “Operating Segments” in Note 16, located on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
11







Table of Contents
 
Item 1(e) Available Information.
 
Our Internet address is www.ecolab.com. Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are available free of charge on our website at www.ecolab.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
In addition, the following governance materials are available on our website at www.ecolab.com/investor/governance:  (i) charters of the Audit, Compensation, Finance and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors; (ii) our Board’s Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) our Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Officers and Finance Associates.
 
Executive Officers of the Registrant.
 
The persons listed in the following table are our current executive officers. Officers are elected annually. There is no family relationship among any of the directors or executive officers, and except as otherwise noted, no executive officer has been involved during the past ten years in any legal proceedings described in applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.
 



     

     

     

     

     

     

Positions Held Since       


Name    

     

Age    

     

Office    

     

Jan. 1, 2006       


Douglas   M. Baker, Jr.    

     

52    

     

Chairman   of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer    

     

May 2006   – Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

President   and Chief Executive Officer    

     

Jan. 2006   – Apr. 2006       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Christophe   Beck    

     

43    

     

Executive   Vice President — Institutional    

     

May 2009   - Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President and General Manager Institutional North America Full Service   Restaurants    

     

Jan. 2008   – Apr. 2009       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President Strategy and Marketing Development    

     

May 2007   – Dec. 2007 (1)       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Larry   L. Berger    

     

50    

     

Senior   Vice President and Chief Technical Officer    

     

Apr. 2008   – Present (2)       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


John   J. Corkrean    

     

45    

     

Vice   President and Corporate Controller    

     

Apr. 2008   – Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Vice   President and Treasurer    

     

May 2006   – Mar. 2008       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Professional   Products Vice President Distributor Sales    

     

Jan. 2006   – Apr. 2006       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Steven   L. Fritze    

     

56    

     

Chief   Financial Officer    

     

Feb. 2008   – Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

     

Jan. 2006   – Jan. 2008       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Thomas   W. Handley    

     

56    

     

President,   Global Food & Beverage and APLA Sectors    

     

Jan. 2011   - Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

President,   Global Food & Beverage    

     

Sep. 2009   – Dec. 2010       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

President   — Industrial and Services North America Sector    

     

Dec. 2007   – Aug. 2009       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President — Industrial Sector    

     

Apr. 2006   – Nov. 2007         
 
12






Table of Contents
 



     

     

     

     

     

     

Positions Held Since       


Name    

     

Age    

     

Office    

     

Jan. 1, 2006       


Thomas   W. Handley (con’t.)    

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President — Specialty Sector    

     

Jan. 2006   – Mar. 2006       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Michael   A. Hickey    

     

49    

     

Executive   Vice President Global Services Sector    

     

Jan. 2011   - Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President, Service Sector    

     

Jan. 2010   – Dec. 2010       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President — Global Business Development and General Manager GCS Service    

     

Jan. 2009   – Dec. 2009       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President — Global Business Development    

     

Jan. 2006   – Dec. 2008       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Phillip   J. Mason    

     

60    

     

President   — EMEA Sector    

     

Jul. 2010   - Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

President   — International Sector    

     

Dec. 2007   – Jun. 2010       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President — Asia Pacific and Latin America    

     

Jan. 2006   – Nov. 2007       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Michael   L. Meyer    

     

53    

     

Senior   Vice President-Human Resources    

     

Feb. 2008   – Present (3)       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


James   A. Miller (4)    

     

54    

     

President,   Global Services and Specialty Sectors    

     

Jan. 2011   - Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

President,   Specialty & Services Sector    

     

Sep. 2009   – Dec. 2010       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

President   — Institutional North America Sector    

     

Dec. 2007   – Aug. 2009       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President — Institutional Sector North America    

     

Jan. 2006   – Nov. 2007       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Susan   K. Nestegard    

     

50    

     

President,   Global Healthcare Sector    

     

Jan. 2010   - Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President — Global Healthcare Sector    

     

Apr. 2008   – Dec. 2009       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President — Research, Development and Engineering and Chief Technical   Officer    

     

Jan. 2006   – Mar. 2008       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


James   J. Seifert    

     

54    

     

General   Counsel & Secretary    

     

May 2010   – Present (5)       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Robert   P. Tabb    

     

60    

     

Vice   President and Chief Information Officer    

     

Jan. 2006   – Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


James   H. White    

     

46    

     

President   APLA Sector    

     

Jul. 2010   – Present       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

President-EMEA   Sector    

     

Dec. 2007   – Jun. 2010       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President — EMEA    

     

Apr. 2007   – Nov. 2007       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President — Strategy and Marketing Development    

     

May 2006   – Mar. 2007       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President — Strategic Planning    

     

Jan. 2006   – Apr. 2006         
 
13






Table of Contents
 

(1)          Prior to joining Ecolab in 2007, Mr. Beck was employed for 15 years by Nestlé S.A. in various management and executive positions including assignments in Germany, Switzerland and Italy.
 
(2)          Prior to joining Ecolab in 2008, Dr. Berger spent 22 years with E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company, most recently as Chief Technical Officer for DuPont Nonwovens.
 
(3)          Prior to joining Ecolab in 2008, Mr. Meyer was employed for 24 years by Abbott Laboratories, most recently as Vice President Vascular Business Latin America and Canada. Mr. Meyer’s management and executive experience includes 22 years in Human Resources and assignments in Canada and Hong Kong.
 
(4)          In May 2000, Mr. Miller became President and CEO of Busy Body, Inc., a privately held retailer of home fitness equipment in the western U.S., to remedy operations that were underperforming the owners’ expectations.  Busy Body, Inc. filed for Chapter 11 protection under federal bankruptcy laws in May 2001 and was subsequently liquidated.  Mr. Miller re-joined the Company in October 2001.
 
(5)          Prior to joining Ecolab in 2010, Mr. Seifert was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Bemis Company, Inc. since 2002.
 
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
 
The following are important factors which could affect our financial performance and could cause our actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. See the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 2 of this Form 10-K.
 
We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements including those made in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the public.
 
Except as may be required under applicable law, we undertake no duty to update our Forward-Looking Statements.
 
Our results depend upon the continued vitality of the markets we serve:  Economic downturns, and in particular downturns in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care and food processing industries, can adversely impact our end-users who are sensitive to changes in travel and dining activities. The decline in economic activity following the 2008 financial crisis has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect these markets. During such downturns, these end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing products, which has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business.
 
Our results are impacted by general worldwide economic factors:  Economic factors such as the worldwide economy, capital flows, interest rates and currency movements including, in particular, our exposure to foreign currency risk have affected our business in the past and may have a material adverse impact on our business in the future.  In 2008 and 2009 the global economy experienced considerable disruption and volatility, and the disruption was particularly acute in the global credit markets. While these disruptions generally subsided in 2010 allowing for a modest economic recovery, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the markets in which we operate. As a result, disruption in the global economy could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
If we are unsuccessful in executing on key business initiatives, our business could be adversely affected:  We continue to make investments and execute business initiatives to develop business systems and optimize our business structure as part of our ongoing efforts to improve our efficiency and returns. In particular, in February 2011 we announced various initiatives to capture financial and operational benefits in our European business, in part, by leveraging our new ERP system, and to improve our competitiveness in the region.  If the projects in which we are investing or the initiatives which we are pursuing are not successfully executed, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.
 
If we are unsuccessful in integrating acquisitions, our business could be adversely affected:  As part of our long-term strategy, we seek to acquire complementary businesses. There can be no 
 
14






Table of Contents
 
assurance that we will find attractive acquisition candidates or succeed at effectively managing the integration of acquired businesses into existing businesses. If the underlying business performance of such acquired businesses deteriorates, the expected synergies from such transactions do not materialize or we fail to successfully integrate new businesses into our existing businesses, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.
 
Our results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost of raw materials:  The prices of raw materials used in our business can fluctuate from time to time, and in recent years we have experienced periods of increased raw material costs. Changes in oil or raw material prices, unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw materials or substitutes for those raw materials, or the inability to obtain or renew supply agreements on favorable terms can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, volatility and disruption in economic activity and conditions could disrupt or delay the performance of our suppliers or otherwise impact our ability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our business.
 
Our growth depends upon our ability to successfully compete with respect to value, innovation and customer support:  Our competitive market is made up of numerous global, national, regional and local competitors. Our ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize innovative, high value-added products for niche applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish this or that technological developments by our competitors will not place certain of our products at a competitive disadvantage in the future. In addition, certain of the new products that we have under development will be offered in markets in which we do not currently compete, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in those new markets. If we fail to introduce new technologies on a timely basis, we may lose market share and our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected. 
Our business depends on our ability to comply with laws and governmental regulations, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations:  Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the environment, including evolving climate change standards, and to the manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and use of our products as well as to the conduct of our business generally, including employment and labor laws. Compliance with these laws and regulations exposes us to potential financial liability and increases our operating costs. Regulation of our products and operations continues to increase with more stringent standards, causing increased costs of operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. The potential cost to us relating to environmental and product registration laws and regulations is uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. Changes to current laws (including tax laws), regulations and policies could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. 
We enter into multi-year contracts with customers that can impact our results:   Our multi-year contracts with some of our customers include terms affecting our pricing flexibility. There can be no assurance that these restraints will not have an adverse impact on our margins and consolidated results of operations.
 
15






Table of Contents
 
Consolidation of our customers and vendors can affect our results:  Customers and vendors in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, healthcare and food processing industries have consolidated in recent years and that trend may continue. This consolidation could have an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers and on our margins and consolidated results of operations.
 
Severe public health outbreaks may adversely impact our business:  Our business could be adversely affected by the effect of a public health epidemic.  The United States and other countries have experienced, and may experience in the future, public health outbreaks such as Avian Flu, SARS and H1N1 influenza.  A prolonged occurrence of a contagious disease such as these could result in a significant downturn in the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries and also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel further impacting our end markets.  Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for some of our products and services and adversely affect our business.
 
Extraordinary events may significantly impact our business:  The occurrence of (a) litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or distributor, (c) war (including acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural or manmade disasters, (e) water shortages or (f) severe weather conditions affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries may have a material adverse effect on our business.
 
Defense of litigation, particularly certain types of actions such as antitrust, patent infringement, wage hour and class action lawsuits, can be costly and time consuming even if ultimately successful, and if not successful could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
While we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse effect on our financial position.
 
War (including acts of terrorism or hostilities), natural or manmade disasters, water shortages or severe weather conditions affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries cause a downturn in the business of restaurants, motels and hotels and other of our customers, which in turn can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
We depend on key personnel to lead our business:  Our continued success will largely depend on our ability to attract and retain a high caliber of talent and on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees. Our operations could be adversely affected if for any reason such officers or key employees did not remain with us.
 
Item 1B