Item 1A of this Form 10-K,
entitled Risk Factors.

 

Item 1. Business.

 

Item 1(a) General
Development of Business.

 

Ecolab was incorporated
as a Delaware corporation in 1924. Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31.

 

During 2005, we continued
to make business acquisitions to broaden our product and service offerings, in
line with our “Circle the Customer – Circle the Globe” strategy. These
transactions included the following:

 

•                                In
January 2005, we acquired Associated Chemicals & Services, Inc.
(a/k/a Midland Research), a water treatment business. Midland had annual sales
of approximately $16,000,000 and this business became part of our United
States Cleaning & Sanitizing and International operations.

 

•                                In
February 2005, we acquired YSC Chemical Company (YSC) based in Bangkok,
Thailand. YSC provides floor cleaning and finishing products in East Asia. YSC
had annual sales of approximately $3,000,000 and this business became part of
our International operations.

 

•                                In
April 2005, we purchased certain operations of Kilco Chemicals Ltd. based
near Belfast, Northern Ireland. Kilco offers products, systems and services for
the food and beverage processing industry. Kilco had annual sales of
approximately $5,000,000 and this business became part of our
International operations.

 

Additional details
regarding certain of the above acquisition transactions are found in Note 5 located
on pages 39 and 40 of the Annual Report, and incorporated into Item 8
hereof.

 

2












 

Item 1(b) Financial
Information About Operating Segments.

 

The financial information
about reportable segments appearing under the heading “Operating Segments” in
Note 15, located on pages 48 and 49 of the Annual Report, is incorporated
herein by reference.

 

Item 1(c) Narrative
Description of Business.

 

General:  Ecolab develops and markets premium products
and services for the hospitality, foodservice, healthcare and industrial
markets. We provide cleaning, sanitizing, pest elimination, maintenance and
repair products and services primarily to hotels and restaurants, healthcare and
educational facilities, quick-service (fast-food and other convenience store)
units, grocery stores, commercial and institutional laundries, light industry,
dairy plants and farms, food and beverage processors, pharmaceutical and
cosmetics facilities and the vehicle wash industry. A strong commitment to
customer support is a distinguishing characteristic of our business. Additional
information on our business philosophy is found below under the heading “Additional
Information – Competition” of this Item 1(c).

 

The following description of our business is based upon our three
reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements. However,
we pursue a “Circle the Customer – Circle the Globe” strategy by providing
products, systems and services which serve our customer base, and do so on a
global basis to meet the needs of our customers’ various operations around the
world. Therefore, one customer may utilize the services of all three of
the segments and there is a degree of interdependence among the operating
segments. Revenues of our International segment include sales outside the
United States by our Kay and Pest Elimination businesses.

 

United States Cleaning & Sanitizing Segment

 

The “United States
Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment is comprised of eight divisions which
provide cleaning and sanitizing services to United States markets.

 

Institutional:  Our Institutional Division is our largest
division and sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes,
glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment (“warewashing”),
for on-premise laundries (typically used by hotel and health care customers)
and for general housekeeping functions, as well as food safety products and
equipment, dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice,
lodging, educational and healthcare industries, and water filters to the
foodservice industry. The Institutional Division also provides pool and spa
treatment programs for hospitality and other commercial customers. The Institutional
Division also manufactures and markets various chemical dispensing device
systems, which are made available to customers, to dispense our cleaners and
sanitizers. In addition, the Institutional Division markets a lease program
comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives
and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance.

 

We believe we are the
leading supplier of chemical warewashing products to institutions in the United
States.

 

The Institutional
Division sells its products and services primarily through company-employed
field sales-and-service personnel. However, to a significant degree, we also
utilize independent, third-party foodservice distributors to market and sell
our products to smaller accounts or accounts which purchase through food
distributors. We provide the same service to accounts supplied by food
distributors as to direct customers.

 

3












 

Kay:  Our Kay Division (which consists of certain
wholly-owned subsidiaries of Ecolab Inc.) supplies chemical cleaning and
sanitizing products primarily to national and regional quick-service restaurant
chains and to the food retail (i.e., grocery store) industry. Kay’s products
include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers,
sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted cleaning tools. Products
are sold under the “Kay” brand or the customer’s private label. In addition,
Kay supports its product sales with employee training programs and technical
support designed to meet the special needs of its customers. Kay’s customized
cleaning and sanitation programs are designed to reduce labor costs and product
usage while increasing sanitation levels, cleaning performance, equipment life
and safety levels.

 

Kay employs a direct
field sales force which primarily calls upon national and regional
quick-service restaurant and food retail chains and franchisees, although the
sales are made to distributors who supply the chain or franchisee’s units.

 

We believe that our Kay
Division is the leading supplier of chemical cleaning and sanitizing products
to the traditional quick-service restaurant industry in the United States. While
Kay’s customer base has been growing, Kay’s business is largely dependent upon
a limited number of major quick-service restaurant chains and franchisees. Kay
continues to seek growth and diversification opportunities.

 

Food & Beverage:  Our Food & Beverage Division
addresses cleaning and sanitation at the beginning of the food chain to
facilitate the production of products for human consumption. The Division
provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health
products, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical
injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants,
dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other
food processors as well as to pharmaceutical and cosmetic plants. The Food &
Beverage Division is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial
products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during
processing in order to reduce microbial contamination on those surfaces. The
Division also designs, engineers and installs CIP (“clean-in-place”) process
control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base. Farm
products are sold through dealers and independent, third-party distributors,
while plant products are sold primarily by our field sales personnel.

 

We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and
sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm, food, meat and poultry, and
beverage/brewery processor industries in the United States.

 

Textile Care:  Our Textile Care Division provides chemical
laundry products and proprietary dispensing systems, as well as related
services, to large industrial and commercial laundries. Typically these
customers process a minimum of 1,000,000 pounds of linen each year and include
free-standing laundry plants used by institutions such as hotels, restaurants
and healthcare facilities as well as industrial and textile rental laundries. The
Division also serves the shirt laundry market, typically comprised of smaller
laundry units. Products and services include laundry cleaning and specialty
products and related dispensing equipment, which are marketed primarily through
a Company-employed sales force and, to a lesser extent, through independent,
third-party distributors. The Division’s programs are designed to meet our
customer’s need for exceptional cleaning, while extending the useful life of
linen and reducing the customer’s overall operating cost.

 

4












 

Professional Products:  The Professional Products Division provides a
broad range of cleaning and floor care products, systems and services to the
commercial janitorial industry which services the retail, health care,
government building services and industrial markets in the United States. Professional
Products’ proprietary janitorial offerings (detergents, general purpose
cleaners, carpet care, stone care, furniture polishes, disinfectants, floor
care products, hand soaps and odor counteractants) are sold primarily through a
network of independent, third-party distributors, supported by a Company-employed
sales force.

 

Healthcare:  Our Healthcare Division provides infection
prevention and healthcare offerings to hospital, acute care and long-term care
markets in the United States. Healthcare’s proprietary infection
prevention/healthcare products (skin care, disinfectants and instrument cleaners)
are sold primarily under the “Huntington” brand name.

 

Vehicle Care:  Our Vehicle Care Division provides vehicle
appearance products which include soaps, polishes, sealants, wheel and tire
treatments and air fresheners. Products are sold to vehicle rental, fleet and
consumer car wash and detail operations. Brand names utilized by the Vehicle
Care Division include Blue CoralÒ,
Black MagicÒ
and Rain-XÒ.

 

Water Care Services:  Water Care Services provides water and
wastewater treatment products, services and systems for
commercial/institutional customers (full service hotels, cruise ships,
hospitals, healthcare, commercial real estate, government, and commercial
laundries), food and beverage customers (dairies, meat, poultry, food
processing and beverage) and other light industry. Water Care Services works
closely with our Institutional, Textile Care and Food & Beverage
Divisions to offer customized water care strategies to their accounts that have
water care needs, primarily to treat water used in heating and cooling systems
and manufacturing processes and to treat wastewater.

 

United States Other Services Segment

 

The “United States Other
Services” segment is comprised of two business units:  Pest Elimination and GCS Service. In general,
these businesses provide service or equipment which can augment or extend our
product offering to our business customers as a part of our “Circle the
Customer” approach.

 

Pest Elimination:  Our Pest Elimination Division provides
services for the detection, elimination and prevention of pests to restaurants,
food and beverage processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels,
quick-service restaurant and grocery operations and other institutional and
commercial customers. These services are sold and performed by Company-employed
sales and service personnel. In addition, through our EcoSure Food Safety
Management business, the Division provides customized on-site evaluations,
training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations.

 

GCS Service:  GCS Service provides commercial equipment
repair services and installed parts, as well as parts distribution. GCS Service
offers these services to restaurant and other foodservice operations, while
providing warranty service for equipment manufacturers. In addition, GCS Service
offers parts at a wholesale level to repair services companies and end users.

 

International Segment 

 

We conduct business in approximately 70 countries outside of the United
States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in the case of Israel and
Venezuela, through majority-owned joint ventures 

 

5












 

with local partners. In other countries, selected products are sold by
our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume
of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall revenues. Our largest
International operations are located in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and
Canada, with smaller operations in Africa and the Middle East.

 

In general, the businesses conducted internationally are similar to
those conducted in the United States, although we customize our products and
services to meet unique local requirements. The businesses which are similar to
the United States’ Institutional and Food & Beverage businesses are
the largest businesses in our International operations. They are conducted in
virtually all our International locations and, compared to the United States,
constitute a larger portion of the overall business. Kay also has sales in a
number of International locations. A significant portion of Kay’s international
sales are to international units of United States-based quick-service
restaurant chains. Consequently, a substantial portion of Kay’s international
sales are made either to domestic or internationally-located third-party
distributors who serve these chains.

 

Through acquisitions we expanded our Pest Elimination business to
Brazil in 2001, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland in 2002, to France
and South Africa in 2004, and to Chile in early 2005. In addition, we entered
the healthcare market in the United Kingdom by acquiring a supplier of hospital
hygiene products in late 2002.

 

Our other businesses are conducted less extensively in our International
locations. However, in general, most of the principal businesses conducted in
the United States are operated in Canada.

 

International businesses are subject to the usual risks of foreign
operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws,
tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions abroad.
The profitability of our International operations has historically been lower
than the profitability of our businesses in the United States. This has been
due to the smaller scale of the International operations as well as the
additional cost of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions.

 

Additional Information

 

Competition:  Our business units have two significant
classes of competitors. First, each business unit competes with a small number
of large companies selling directly or through distributors on a national or
international scale. Second, all of our business units have numerous smaller
regional or local competitors which focus on more limited geographies, product
lines and/or end-user segments.

 

Our objective is to achieve a significant presence in each of our
business markets. In general, competition is based on service, product
performance and price. We believe we compete principally by providing superior
value, premium service and differentiated products. Value is provided by
state-of-the-art cleaning, sanitation and maintenance products and systems
coupled with high customer support standards and continuing dedication to
customer satisfaction. This is made possible, in part, by our significant
on-going investment in training and technology and by our standard practice of
advising customers on means to lower operating costs and helping them comply
with safety, environmental and sanitation regulations. In addition, we
emphasize our ability to uniformly provide a variety of related premium
cleaning and sanitation services to our customers and to provide that level of
service to multiple locations of chain customer organizations worldwide. This
approach is succinctly stated in our “Circle the Customer - Circle the Globe”
strategy which is discussed above in this Item 1(c) under the heading “General.”

 

6












 

Sales and Service:  Products, systems and services are primarily
marketed in domestic and international markets by Company-trained sales and
service personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the proper and
efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full range of cleaning
and sanitation needs. Independent, third-party distributors are utilized in
several markets, as described in the business unit descriptions found under the
discussion of the three reportable segments above.

 

Number of Employees:  We have approximately 22,400 employees.

 

Customers and Classes of Service:  We believe that our business is not
materially dependent upon a single customer although, as described above in
this Item 1(c) under the description of the Kay business, Kay is largely
dependent upon a limited number of national and international quick-service
chains and franchisees. Additionally, although we have a diverse customer base
and no customer or distributor constitutes ten percent or more of our
consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party
distributors, the loss of which could have a material negative effect on
results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider
it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our financial
position. No material part of our business is subject to renegotiation or
termination at the election of a governmental unit. We sell two classes of
products which each constitute 10 percent or more of our sales. Sales of
warewashing products in 2005, 2004 and 2003 approximated 21, 22, and 23
percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. In addition, through our
Institutional and Textile Care businesses, we sell laundry products and
services to a broad range of laundry customers. Sales of laundry products and
services in 2005, 2004 and 2003 approximated 11, 10 and 10 percent,
respectively, of our consolidated net sales.

 

Patents and Trademarks:  We own and license a number of patents,
trademarks and other intellectual property, including through a license
agreement with Henkel KGaA. While we have an active program to protect our
intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks, and pursuing legal
action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, we do not believe that our
overall business is materially dependent on any individual patent or trademark.

 

Seasonality:  Overall our business does not have a
significant degree of seasonality.

 

Working Capital:  We have invested in the past, and will
continue to invest in the future, in merchandising equipment consisting
primarily of systems used by customers to dispense our cleaning and sanitizing
products. Otherwise, we have no unusual working capital requirements. The
investment in merchandising equipment is discussed under the heading “Cash
Flows” located on page 28 of the Annual Report and incorporated into Item
7 hereof.

 

Manufacturing and Distribution:  We manufacture most of our products and
related equipment in Company-owned manufacturing facilities. Some products are
also produced for us by third-party contract manufacturers, including Henkel
KGaA. Other products and equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers. Additional
information on product/equipment sourcing is found in the segment discussions
above and additional information on our manufacturing facilities is located
beginning at page 15 hereof under the heading “Properties.”

 

Deliveries to customers
are made from our manufacturing plants and a network of distribution centers
and public warehouses. We use common carriers, our own delivery vehicles, and
distributors. Additional information on our plant and distribution facilities
is located beginning at page 15 hereof under the heading “Properties.”

 

7












 

Raw Materials:  Raw materials purchased for use in
manufacturing our products are inorganic chemicals, including phosphates,
silicates, alkalis, salts and organic chemicals, including surfactants and
solvents. These materials are generally purchased on an annual contract basis
from a diverse group of chemical manufacturers. When practical, global sourcing
is used so that purchasing or production locations can be shifted to control
product costs at globally competitive levels. Pesticides used by our Pest
Elimination Division are purchased as finished products under contract or
purchase order from the producers or their distributors. We also purchase
packaging materials for our manufactured products and components for our
specialized cleaning equipment and systems. Most raw materials, or substitutes
for those materials, used by us, with the exception of a few specialized
chemicals which we manufacture, are available from several suppliers.

 

Research and Development:  Our research and development program consists
principally of devising and testing new products, processes, techniques and
equipment, improving the efficiency of existing ones, improving service program
content, and evaluating the environmental compatibility of products. Key
disciplines include analytical and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process
and packaging engineering and product dispensing technology. Substantially all
of our principal products have been developed by our research, development and
engineering personnel. At times, technology has also been licensed from third
parties to develop offerings. Note 12, entitled “Research Expenditures” located
on page 44 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

 

Environmental and Regulatory
Considerations:  Our
businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and regulations
relating to the protection of the environment and public health. While we
cooperate with governmental authorities and take commercially practicable
measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or limit environmental
effects, some risks are inherent in our businesses. Among the risks are costs
associated with transporting and managing hazardous substances, waste disposal
or plant site clean-up, fines and penalties if we are found to be in violation
of law, as well as modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain
operations or types of operations including product recalls. Additionally,
although we are not currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no
assurance that future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position
or cash flows. Environmental and regulatory matters most significant to us are
discussed below.

 

Ingredient Legislation:  Various laws and regulations have been
enacted by state, local and foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of
products which contain phosphorous, volatile organic compounds, or other
ingredients that may impact human health or the environment. Under
California Proposition 65, label disclosures are required for certain products
containing chemicals listed by California. To date, we generally have been able
to comply with such legislative requirements by reformulation or labeling
modifications. Such legislation has not had a material negative effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows to date.

 

Pesticide Legislation:  Various international, federal and state
environmental laws and regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of
pesticides. We manufacture and sell certain disinfecting and sanitizing
products which kill microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on environmental
surfaces and on certain food products. Such products constitute “pesticides” or
“antimicrobial pesticides” under the current definitions of the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), as amended by the Food
Quality Protection Act of 1996, the principal federal statute governing the
manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides. We maintain 

 

8












 

approximately 400 product
registrations with the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). Registration
entails the necessity to meet certain efficacy, toxicity and labeling
requirements and to pay on-going registration fees. In addition, each state in
which these products are sold requires registration and payment of a fee. In
general, the states impose no substantive requirements different from those
required by FIFRA. However, California and certain other states have adopted
additional regulatory programs, and California imposes a tax on total pesticide
sales in that State. While the cost of complying with rules as to
pesticides has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
liquidity or the results of our operations to date, the costs and delays in
receiving necessary approvals for these products continue to increase. Total
fees paid to the EPA and the states to obtain or maintain pesticide
registrations, and for the California tax, were approximately $2,900,000 in 2005
and $2,700,000 in 2004. In Europe, the Biocidal Product Directive (98/8/EC) is
establishing a program to evaluate and authorize marketing of biocidal active
substances and products. The Biocidal Product Directive requirements are
transitioning into effect. In September 2006, certain biocidal active
substances not notified to the European Chemicals Bureau will be withdrawn from
the market. We are working with suppliers and industry groups to manage
requirements associated with the Biocidal Products Directive. Anticipated
registration costs are not expected to significantly affect our consolidated
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

 

In addition, our Pest Elimination Division applies
restricted-use pesticides which it generally purchases from third parties. That
Division must comply with certain standards pertaining to the use of such
pesticides and to the licensing of employees who apply such pesticides. Such
regulations are enforced primarily by the states or local jurisdictions in
conformity with federal regulations. We have not experienced material
difficulties in complying with these requirements.

 

FDA Antimicrobial Product
Requirements:  Various
laws and regulations have been enacted by federal, state, local and foreign
jurisdictions regulating certain products manufactured and sold by us for
controlling microbial growth on humans, animals, processed foods, and medical
devices. In the United States, these requirements generally are administered by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). The FDA has been expanding
requirements applicable to such products, including proposing regulations in a
Tentative Final Monograph for Healthcare Antiseptic Drug Products dated June 17,
1994 that may impose additional requirements and associated costs when
finalized by the FDA. To date, such requirements have not had a material
negative effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.

 

Europe:  The European Union is developing a new
regulatory framework for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of
Chemicals (REACH). It is expected that a final decision on REACH will be made
by the European Parliament and Council in autumn 2006. The Commission expects
the REACH Regulation to enter into force in spring 2007, with an implementation
schedule to follow. Accordingly, operational requirements of REACH are
expected to apply from 2008 onwards.

 

REACH is expected to
establish a new European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki, Finland. The Agency would
be responsible for evaluating data to determine hazards and risks and to manage
this program for authorizing chemicals for sale and distribution in Europe. All
“new” and “existing” chemicals produced or imported 

 

9












 

into the EU in quantities
above 1 ton per year must be registered in a central database. For chemicals
deemed to be of most concern, industry must gain specific authorization for
particular uses which have been demonstrated to be safe. Other uses would be
prohibited.

 

To manage this new
program, we expect to simplify our product line, and we are working with
chemical suppliers to begin evaluating potential implications. The eventual
impact of REACH will also be felt by our competitors. Potential costs to us are
not yet quantifiable.

 

Other Environmental
Legislation:  Our
manufacturing plants are subject to federal, state, local or foreign
jurisdiction laws and regulations relating to discharge of hazardous substances
into the environment and to the transportation, handling and disposal of such
substances. The primary federal statutes that apply to our activities are the
Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act (“RCRA”). We are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to
emissions of hazardous substances into the air, land and water. We make capital
investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations,
to ensure employee safety and to carry out its announced environmental
stewardship principles. To date, such expenditures have not had a significant
adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition
or liquidity. Our capital expenditures for environmental health and safety
projects were approximately $4,230,000 in 2005 and $1,810,000 in 2004. Approximately
$7,000,000 has been budgeted globally for projects in 2006.

 

Environmental Remediation
and Proceedings:  Along
with numerous other potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”), we are currently
involved with waste disposal site clean-up activities imposed by the federal
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”)
or state equivalents at 21 sites in the United States. Additionally, we have
similar liability at eight sites outside the United States. In general, under
CERCLA, we and each other PRP which actually contributes hazardous substances
to a Superfund site are jointly and severally liable for the costs associated
with cleaning up the site. Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to
agree and implement a plan for site remediation. Pursuant to an Environmental
Agreement dated December 7, 2000 with Henkel KGaA, Henkel agreed to
indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities associated with the parties’
former joint venture in Europe. Reimbursement from Henkel has been requested
for 42,785 euro (or approximately $52,000) spent for such environmental
liabilities prior to December 31, 2005.

 

Based on an analysis of our experience with such environmental
proceedings, our estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the
sites referred to in the preceding paragraph, and our estimate of the
contribution to be made by other PRPs which we believe have the financial
ability to pay their shares, we have accrued our best estimate of our probable
future costs relating to such known sites. Unasserted claims are not reflected
in the accrual. In establishing accruals, potential insurance reimbursements
are not included. The accrual is not discounted. It is not feasible to predict
when the amounts accrued will be paid due to the uncertainties inherent in the
environmental remediation and associated regulatory processes.

 

10












 

Our worldwide net expenditures for contamination
remediation were approximately $800,000 in 2005 and $500,000 in 2004. Including
the ChemLawn matters described below, our worldwide accruals at December 31,
2005 for probable future remediation expenditures totaled approximately $4,300,000.
We review our exposure for contamination remediation costs periodically and our
accruals are adjusted as considered appropriate. While the final resolution of
these issues could result in costs below or above current accruals and,
therefore, have an impact on our consolidated financial results in a future
reporting period, we believe the ultimate resolution of these matters will not
have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial
condition or liquidity. In addition, we have retained responsibility for
certain sites where our former ChemLawn business is a PRP. Currently there are
five such locations and, at each, ChemLawn is a de minimis
party. Anticipated costs currently accrued for these matters were included in
our loss from our discontinued ChemLawn operations in 1991. The accrual
remaining reflects our best estimate of probable future costs.

 

Item 1(d) Financial
Information About Geographic Areas.

 

The financial information
about geographic areas appearing under the heading “Operating Segments” in Note
15, located on pages 48 and 49 of the Annual Report, is incorporated
herein by reference.

 

Item 1(e) Available
Information.

 

Our Internet address is www.ecolab.com.
Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are
available free of charge on our website at www.ecolab.com/investor as soon as
reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

 

In addition, the
following governance materials are available on our website at
www.ecolab.com/investor/governance and the same information is available in
print to any requesting persons, free of charge, by writing to the Corporate
Secretary at our headquarters address, or by submitting an e-mail request to
investor.info@ecolab.com:  (i)  charters
of the Audit, Compensation, Finance and Governance Committees of our Board of
Directors; (ii) our Board’s Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) our
Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Officers and Finance Associates.

 

Executive Officers of the
Company

 

The persons listed in the
following table are our current executive officers. Officers are elected
annually. There is no family relationship among any of the directors or
executive officers, and, except as noted, no executive officer has been
involved during the past five years in any legal proceedings described in
applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Office
  
  
   
  
  
  Positions Held Since
  Jan. 1, 2001
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Douglas M. Baker, Jr.
  
  
   
  
  
  47
  
  
   
  
  
  President and Chief
  Executive Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Jul. 2004 –
  Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  President and Chief
  Operating Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Aug. 2002 – Jun. 2004
  
 


 

11












 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Office
  
  
   
  
  
  Positions Held Since
  Jan. 1, 2001
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Douglas M. Baker, Jr.
  (continued)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  President -
  Institutional Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Mar. 2002 – Jul. 2002
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President -
  Institutional Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2001 – Feb. 2002
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Lawrence T. Bell
  
  
   
  
  
  58
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President,
  General Counsel and Secretary
  
  
   
  
  
  Jul. 2002 –
  Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-Law
  and General Counsel
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2001 – Jun. 2002
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Steven
  L. Fritze
  
  
   
  
  
  51
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President and
  Chief Financial Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Feb. 2004 – Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior
  Vice President and
  Chief Financial Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Mar. 2002 – Jan. 2004
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President -
  Finance and Controller
  
  
   
  
  
  May 2001 – Feb. 2002
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and
  Controller
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2001 – Apr. 2001
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Robert K. Gifford
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President –
  Global Supply Chain
  
  
   
  
  
  Oct. 2005 –
  Present (1)
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President – Supply
  Chain Management
  
  
   
  
  
  Sep. 2004 – Sep. 2005
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Thomas W. Handley
  
  
   
  
  
  51
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President-Specialty Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 –
  Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President -
  Strategic Planning
  
  
   
  
  
  Aug. 2003 – Dec. 2003
  (2)
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Michael A. Hickey
  
  
   
  
  
  44
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President – Global / 
  Corporate Accounts
  
  
   
  
  
  Nov. 2005 – Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President – Global/Corporate Accounts, 
  Institutional Division
  
  
   
  
  
  Jul. 2001 to Oct. 2005
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President – Sales & Marketing, Kay Chemical
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2001 to Jun. 2001
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Luciano Iannuzzi
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President – Europe, 
  Africa and Middle East
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 to
  Present
  
 


 

12












 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Office
  
  
   
  
  
  Positions Held Since
  Jan. 1, 2001
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Luciano Iannuzzi
  (continued)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and
  General 
  Manager – Europe
  
  
   
  
  
  Jun. 2002 – Dec. 2003
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President – Region
  West & 
  Region South Europe
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2002 – May 2002
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President Region
  South 
  Europe – Henkel-Ecolab
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2001 – Dec. 2001
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Diana D. Lewis
  
  
   
  
  
  59
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President -
  Human Resources
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2001 –
  Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Phillip J. Mason
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President – 
  Asia Pacific and Latin America
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2004 –
  Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President –
  Strategic 
  Business Development
  
  
   
  
  
  May 2004 – Nov. 2004
  (3)
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  James A. Miller
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President-
  Institutional Sector North America
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 –
  Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and
  General
  Manager - Institutional
  
  
   
  
  
  Sept. 2002 – Dec. 2003
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Institutional Vice
  President-
  Marketing North America
  
  
   
  
  
  Oct. 2001 – Aug. 2002
  (4)
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Susan K. Nestegard
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-Research,
  Development and Engineering and 
  Chief Technical Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2004 –
  Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice
  President-Research, 
  Development and Engineering and 
  Chief Technical Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Mar. 2003 – Nov. 2004
  (5)
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Daniel J. Schmechel
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President
  and Controller
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2005 –
  Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and
  Controller
  
  
   
  
  
  Apr. 2002 – Nov. 2005
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and
  Treasurer
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2001 – Mar. 2002
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Robert P. Tabb
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and
  Chief 
  Information Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Sep. 2003 –
  Present (7)
  
 


 



(1).       Prior to
joining Ecolab in September 2004, Mr. Gifford served as Vice
President, World Logistics and Program Manager of Hewlett Packard Corporation
for three years. Prior to Hewlett Packard, Mr. Gifford was employed by
Compaq and Tandem.

 

(2).       Prior to
joining Ecolab in August 2003, Mr. Handley was employed by the
Procter & Gamble Company for 22 years in various management, marketing
and executive positions including assignments in Japan and Mexico. Mr. Handley’s
last position at P&G was Vice President - Feminine Care Strategic Planning.

 

13












 

(3).       Mr. Mason
re-joined Ecolab in May 2004, where he formerly served 23 years in various
management and executive positions, most recently as Vice President – Asia
Pacific. Prior to re-joining Ecolab, Mr. Mason was employed by HAVI Group,
LP, serving as President, HPR Partners from 1997-2004.

 

(4).       From April 1998
to April 2000, Mr. Miller served as Senior Vice President and General
Manager, The Minute Maid Co. (a subsidiary of The Coca Cola Company). In May 2000,
Mr. Miller was hired as President and CEO of Busy Body, Inc., a
privately held retailer of home fitness equipment in the western U.S., to
remedy operations that were underperforming the owners’ expectations. Busy Body, Inc.
filed for Chapter 11 protection under federal bankruptcy laws in May 2001
and was subsequently liquidated. Mr. Miller re-joined the Company in October 2001.

 

(5).       Prior to
joining Ecolab in March 2003, Ms. Nestegard was employed by 3M
Company for 20 years, most recently as Business Director of Optical Components.
Ms. Nestegard’s experience includes product and process development and
technical management as Director Engineering Systems Technology Center and as
Technical Director of the Electronic Products Division of 3M in Austin, Texas.

 

(6).       Prior to
joining Ecolab in September 2003, Mr. Tabb held various executive
positions in the systems technology industry, most recently with Focus IT
Group, a consulting firm. From 1997 – 2000 Mr. Tabb was employed by CNF
Transportation, Inc. as Vice President and Chief Information Officer. From
2000 – 2001 Mr. Tabb served as Vice President, Global Information
Technology at Nike, Inc.

 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

 

We identify below for investors important factors which could affect
our financial performance and could cause our actual results for future periods
to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations,
including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K.
See the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 2
of this Form 10-K. Also, we may refer to this disclosure to identify
risk factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in
other forward-looking statements made in oral presentations, including
telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the public. Risk factors relating
to our protection of the environment are located under Item 1(c) of this Form 10-K
under the heading “Environmental and Regulatory Considerations,” and are
incorporated herein by reference.

 

Risks and uncertainties that may affect our operating results and
business performance include:

 

•            the vitality of the
foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care and food processing industries;

 

•            restraints on pricing
flexibility due to competitive factors, customer or vendor consolidations, and
existing contractual obligations;

 

•            changes in oil or raw
material prices or unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw
materials or substitutes therefore;

 

•            the occurrence of
capacity constraints or the loss of a key supplier or the inability to obtain
or renew supply agreements on favorable terms;

 

•            the effect of future
acquisitions or divestitures or other corporate transactions;

 

•            our ability to achieve
plans for past acquisitions;

 

•            the costs and effects
of complying with: (i) laws and regulations relating to the environment
and to the manufacture, storage, distribution, efficacy and labeling of our
products, and (ii) changes in tax, fiscal, governmental and other
regulatory policies;

 

•            economic factors such
as the worldwide economy, interest rates and currency movements including, in
particular, our exposure to foreign currency risk;

 

•            the occurrence of (a) litigation
or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or distributor, (c) war
(including acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural
or manmade disasters, or (e) severe weather conditions or public health
epidemics affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries;

 

•            loss of, or changes
in, executive management;

 

•            our ability to
continue product introductions or reformulations and technological innovations;
and

 

•            other uncertainties or
risks reported from time to time in our reports to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

 

14












 

In addition, we note that our stock price can be affected by
fluctuations in quarterly earnings. There can be no assurance that our earnings
levels will meet investors’ expectations.

 

Item 1B