Item 1A of this Form 10-K, entitled Risk Factors.
 
Item 1.  Business.
 
Item 1(a) General Development of Business.
 
Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924.  Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31.
 
Effective in the first quarter of 2013, we changed our reportable segments due to a change in our underlying organizational model designed to support the business following the Nalco merger and to facilitate global growth. We did not operate under the realigned segment structure prior to 2013.  Our new segment structure focuses on global businesses, with our ten global operating units, which are also operating segments, aggregated into four reportable segments as follows:
 
·                  Global Industrial consists of the Global Water, Global Food & Beverage, Global Paper and Global Textile Care operating units.
 
·                  Global Institutional consists of the Global Institutional, Global Specialty and Global Healthcare operating units.
 
1






 
·                  Global Energy consists of the Global Energy operating unit.
 
·                  Other consists of the Global Pest Elimination and Equipment Care operating units.
 
Consistent with our internal management reporting, we also present a Corporate segment which includes amortization specifically from the Nalco merger, certain integration costs from both the Nalco and Champion transactions and the special (gains) and charges reported on our Consolidated Statement of Income.
 
In 2013, we took the following actions to continue to build our business:
 
·                              In January, we completed the acquisition of Mexico-based Quimiproductos S.A. de C.V., a producer and supplier of cleaning, sanitizing and water treatment goods and services to breweries and beverage companies located in Central and South America.  Pre-acquisition annual sales were approximately $43 million and the business became part of our Global Industrial reportable segment during the first quarter of 2013.
 
·                              In April, we acquired Champion Technologies, and its related company Corsicana Technologies (collectively “Champion”), a Houston-based global energy specialty products and services company, to strengthen our position in the fast-growing energy services market. Champion’s 2012 sales for the business acquired were approximately $1.3 billion and the business became part of our Global Energy reportable segment during the second quarter of 2013.
 
·                              In April, we acquired Russia-based OOO Master Chemicals (“Master Chemicals”).  Master Chemicals sells oil field chemicals to oil and gas producers located throughout Russia and parts of the Ukraine.  Pre-acquisition annual sales of the business were approximately $29 million.  The business became part of our Global Energy reportable segment during the second quarter of 2013.
 
·                              In August, we sold substantially all the equipment design and build business of our Mobotec air emissions control business.  The Mobotec equipment design and build business had 2012 sales of approximately $27 million, which were within our Global Industrial reportable segment. We retained Mobotec’s chemical business.
 
·                              In December, subsequent to our fiscal year end for international operations, we completed the acquisition of AkzoNobel B.V.’s Purate business which specializes in global antimicrobial water treatment.  With 2012 revenues of approximately $23 million, the Purate business provides patented, proprietary chlorine dioxide generation programs for use in a wide array of water treatment applications.  Beginning in the first quarter of 2014, the business will become part of our Global Industrial reportable segment.
 
Item 1(b) Financial Information About Operating Segments.
 
The financial information about reportable segments appearing under the heading “Operating Segments and Geographic Information” in Note 17, located on pages 63 and 64 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
2






 
Item 1(c) Narrative Description of Business.
 
General
 
With 2013 sales of $13.3 billion, we are the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that protect people and vital resources.  We deliver comprehensive programs and services to promote safe food, maintain clean environments, optimize water and energy use and improve operational efficiencies for customers in the food, energy, healthcare, industrial and hospitality markets in more than 170 countries.  Our cleaning and sanitizing programs and products, pest elimination services, and equipment maintenance and repair services support customers in the foodservice, food and beverage processing, hospitality, healthcare, government and education, retail, textile care and commercial facilities management sectors.  Our chemicals and technologies are also used in water treatment, pollution control, energy conservation, oil production and refining, steelmaking, papermaking, mining and other industrial processes.
 
We pursue a “Circle the Customer — Circle the Globe” strategy by providing an array of programs, products and services which serve our customer base, and do so on a global basis to meet the needs of our customers’ various operations around the world.  Through this strategy and our varied product and service mix, one customer may utilize the offerings of several of our reportable segments.
 
The following description of our business is based upon four reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, as incorporated by reference into Part II of this Form 10-K.  We aggregate our ten operating units into the following four reportable segments: Global Industrial; Global Institutional; Global Energy; and Other.
 

 
Global Industrial
 
This reportable segment consists of the Global Water, Global Food & Beverage, Global Paper and Global Textile Care operating units.  It provides water treatment and process applications, and cleaning and sanitizing solutions primarily to large industrial customers within the manufacturing, food and beverage processing, chemical, mining and primary metals, power generation, pulp and paper, and commercial laundry industries.  The underlying operating units exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics.  Descriptions of the four operating units which comprise our Global Industrial segment follow below.
 
Global Water:  Our Global Water business serves customers across industrial and institutional markets, with the exception of the pulp and paper industry which is serviced by our Global Paper business and 
 
3






 
the energy industries which are served by our Global Energy business.  Within Global Water, we provide products and programs for water treatment and process applications aimed at combining environmental benefits with economic gains for our customers. Our offerings include specialty products such as scale and corrosion inhibitors, antifoulants, pre-treatment solutions, membrane treatments, coagulants and flocculants, and anti-foams, as well as our 3D TRASARTM technology, which combines chemistry, remote services and monitoring and control. Typically, water savings, energy savings, maintenance and capital expenditure avoidance are among the primary sources of value to our customers, with product quality and production enhancement improvements also providing a key differentiating feature for many of our offerings. We serve customers in the aerospace, chemical, pharmaceutical, mining and primary metals, power, food and beverage and medium and light manufacturing, as well as institutional clients such as hospitals, universities, commercial buildings and hotels.
 
Our Global Water business provides water treatment products and programs for cooling water, boiler water, process water and waste water applications.  Our cooling water treatment programs are designed to control the main problems associated with cooling water systems — corrosion, scale and microbial fouling and contamination — in open recirculating, once-through and closed systems.  We provide integrated chemical solutions, process improvements and mechanical component modifications to optimize boiler performance and control corrosion and scale build-up. Our programs assist the production of potable water or water for plant processes by optimizing the performance of treatment chemicals and equipment in order to minimize costs and maximize return on investment. Our wastewater products and programs focus on improving overall plant economics, addressing compliance issues, optimizing equipment efficiency and improving operator capabilities and effectiveness.  Our offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees.
 
We believe that we have the leading market position world-wide among suppliers of products and programs for chemical treatment applications for industrial water treatment.
 
Global Food & Beverage:  Our Global Food & Beverage business addresses cleaning and sanitation at the beginning of the food chain to facilitate the processing of products for human consumption.  Global Food & Beverage provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food processors.  Global Food & Beverage is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during processing in order to reduce microbial contamination.  Global Food & Beverage also designs, engineers and installs CIP (“clean-in-place”) process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base.  Products for use on farms are sold through dealers and independent, third-party distributors, while products for use in processing facilities are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees.
 
We believe that we are the leading supplier world-wide of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm, food, meat and poultry, and beverage/brewery processor industries.
 
Global Paper:  Our Global Paper business provides water and process applications for the pulp and paper industries.  Our Global Paper segment offers a comprehensive portfolio of programs that are used in all principal steps of the papermaking process and across all grades of paper, including graphic grades, board and packaging, and tissue and towel.  Global Paper provides its customers the same types of products and programs for water treatment and wastewater treatment as those offered by Global Water.  Also, Global Paper offers two additional specialty programs—pulp applications and paper applications.  Our pulp applications maximize process efficiency and increase pulp cleanliness and brightness in bleaching operations, as well as predict and monitor scaling potential utilizing on-line monitoring to design effective treatment programs and avoid costly failures. Our paper process applications focus on improving our customers’ operational efficiency.  Advanced sensing, monitoring
 
4






 
and automation combine with innovative chemistries and detailed process knowledge to provide a broad range of customer solutions. Specialty products include flocculants, coagulants, dewatering aids, and digester yield enhances.  Our offerings are sold primarily by our field sales employees.
 
We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers world-wide of water treatment products and process aids to the pulp and papermaking industry.
 
Global Textile Care:  Our Global Textile Care business provides products and services that manage the entire wash process through custom designed programs, premium products, dispensing equipment, water and energy management, and real time data management for large scale, complex commercial operations including uniform rental, hospitality, linen rental and healthcare laundries.  Global Textile Care’s programs are designed to meet our customers’ needs for exceptional cleaning, while extending the useful life of linen and reducing the customers’ overall operating cost.  Products and programs are marketed primarily through field sales employees and, to a lesser extent, through distributors.
 
We believe that our Global Textile Care business is one of the leading suppliers world-wide in the laundry markets in which we compete.
 
Global Institutional
 
This reportable segment consists of the Global Institutional, Global Specialty and Global Healthcare operating units.  It provides specialized cleaning and sanitizing products to the foodservice, hospitality, lodging, healthcare, government and education and retail industries.  The underlying operating units exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics.  Descriptions of the three operating units which comprise our Global Institutional segment follows below.
 
Global Institutional: Our Global Institutional business sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment (“warewashing”), plus specialized cleaners for various applications throughout food service operations, for on premise laundries (typically used by hotel and healthcare customers) and for general housekeeping functions, as well as food safety products and equipment, water filters, dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging, educational and healthcare industries.  Global Institutional also provides pool and spa treatment programs for hospitality and other commercial customers, as well as a broad range of janitorial cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers in hospitality, healthcare and commercial facilities.  Global Institutional develops various chemical dispensing systems which are used by our customers to efficiently and safely dispense our cleaners and sanitizers.  In addition, the Global Institutional operating unit markets a lease program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance.  Through our EcoSure Food Safety Management business, Global Institutional also provides customized on-site evaluations, training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations.
 
Global Institutional sells its products and programs primarily through Company-employed field sales personnel.  Corporate account sales personnel establish relationships and negotiate contracts with larger multi-unit or “chain” customers.  We also utilize independent, third-party foodservice, broad-line and janitorial distributors to provide logistics to end customers for accounts that prefer to purchase through these distributors.  Many of these distributors also participate in marketing our product and service offerings to the end customers.  Through our Company-employed field sales and service personnel, we generally provide the same customer support to end-use customers supplied by these distributors as we do to direct customers.
 
We believe that we are the leading global supplier of warewashing and laundry products and programs to the food service and hospitality markets.
 
5






 
Global Specialty:  Our Global Specialty operating unit supplies cleaning and sanitizing chemical products and related items primarily to regional, national and international quick service restaurant (“QSR”) chains and food retailers (i.e., supermarkets and grocery stores).  Its products include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted cleaning tools and equipment which are primarily sold under the “Kay” and “Ecolab” brand names.  Global Specialty’s cleaning and sanitation programs are customized to meet the needs of the market segments it serves and are designed to provide highly effective cleaning performance, promote food safety, reduce labor costs and enhance user and guest safety.  A number of product dispensing options are available for products in the core product range.  Global Specialty supports its product sales with employee training programs and technical support designed to meet the special needs of its customers.
 
Both Global Specialty’s QSR business and its food retail business utilize a corporate account sales force which establishes relationships and negotiates contracts with customers at the corporate headquarters and regional office levels (and, in the QSR market segment, at the franchisee level) and a field sales force which provides program support at the individual restaurant or store level.  Customers in the QSR market segment are primarily supplied through third party distributors while most food retail customers utilize their own distribution networks. While Global Specialty’s customer base has grown over the years, Global Specialty’s business remains largely dependent upon a limited number of major QSR chains and franchisees and large food retail customers.
 
We believe that Global Specialty is the leading supplier of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global QSR market and a leading supplier of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global food retail market.
 
Global Healthcare: Our Global Healthcare business provides infection prevention and other healthcare-related offerings to acute care hospitals, surgery centers, dental offices and veterinary clinics.  Global Healthcare’s proprietary infection prevention products (hand hygiene, hard surface disinfectants, instrument cleaners, patient drapes, fluid control products, equipment drapes and surgical fluid, warming and cooling systems) are sold primarily under the “Ecolab”, “Microtek” and “OR Solutions” brand names to various departments within the acute care environment (Infection Control, Environmental Services, Central Sterile and Operating Room). Global Healthcare’s Microtek Medical business is a leader in niche branded specialty surgical drapes and fluid control products.  Global Healthcare’s OR Solutions business is a leading developer and marketer of surgical fluid warming and cooling systems.  Global Healthcare sells its products and programs primarily through Company-employed field sales personnel but also sells through healthcare distributors. Primarily in Europe, Global Healthcare also manufactures and markets disinfectants and related products for contamination control in critical environments such as pharmaceutical and hospital clean rooms.
 
We believe Global Healthcare is a leading supplier of infection prevention products in the United States and Europe.
 
Global Energy
 
This reportable segment, which operates under the Nalco Champion name, consists of the Global Energy operating unit.  It serves the process chemicals and water treatment needs of the global petroleum and petrochemical industries in both upstream and downstream applications.
 
Our Global Energy segment provides on-site, technology-driven solutions to the global drilling, oil and gas production, refining, and petrochemical industries.  Our product and service portfolio includes corrosion inhibitors, scale control additives, biocides, cleaners, hydrate control, HsS scavengers, oil dispersants, asphaltene and paraffin control, foamers and anti-foams, flow assurance, oil/water separation, heavy crude desalting, monomer inhibitors, anti-oxidants, fuel and lubricant additives, air
 
6






 
emission control and combustion efficiency, and traditional water treatment.  Our customers include nearly all of the largest publicly traded oil companies.  Our Global Energy offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees.  The Global Energy segment operates an Upstream group composed of our WellChem, Oilfield Chemicals and Enhanced Oil Recovery businesses and a Downstream refinery and petrochemical processing business.
 
·                  Well Stimulation and Completion:  Our WellChem business supplies chemicals for the cementing, drilling, fracturing and acidizing phases of well drilling and stimulation.  Our integrated approach to product development combines marketing and research efforts supported with process simulation, pilot plants and full-scale manufacturing capabilities.
 
·                  Oilfield Applications:  Our Oilfield Chemicals business provides solutions to the oil and gas production sector.  We have expertise in crude oil and natural gas production, pipeline gathering/transmission systems, gas processing, and heavy oil and bitumen upgrading.  Our priority is to safely manage the critical challenges facing today’s oil and gas producers throughout the lifecycle of their assets.  Starting with the design/capital investment phase to asset decommission, a lifecycle approach to chemical solutions and offerings help our customers minimize risk, achieve their production targets and maximize profitability.
 
·                  Enhanced Oil Recovery:  We provide custom engineered chemical solutions that increase production of crude oil and gas from existing fields, which are marketed primarily through our TIORCOTM joint venture with Stepan Company.  TIORCO integrates enhanced oil recovery (“EOR”) processes by leveraging our polymer and reservoir expertise and Stepan’s global surfactant technology and manufacturing capabilities.
 
·                  Downstream Refining Applications:  Our industry-focused sales engineers provide products and programs for process and water treatment applications specific to the petroleum refining and fuels industry, enabling our customers to profitably refine and upgrade hydrocarbons.  Our heavy oil upgrading programs minimize operation costs and mitigate fouling, corrosion, foaming and the effects of heavy metals when refining opportunity crudes. We also offer an entire line of fuel additives, including corrosion inhibitors, to protect engine fuel systems and pre-market underground storage tanks and piping.  In addition, we offer fuel stabilizers, pour point depressants, cetane improvers, detergents and antioxidants for home heating oil and premium diesel and gasoline packages.
 
·                  Downstream Chemical Processing Applications:  Our customized process and water treatment programs are delivered by onsite technical experts who are focused on providing improved system reliability, reduced total cost of operations, environmental compliance, sustainability in the form of energy and water savings and reduced carbon emissions.
 
·                  Water Treatment Applications:  We also provide total water and wastewater management solutions specific to customers’ refining and chemical processing needs including boiler treatment, cooling water treatment and wastewater treatment.
 
We believe that our Global Energy segment has a leading market position in the geographic markets it serves.
 
Other
 
This reportable segment consists of the Global Pest Elimination and Equipment Care operating units.  It provides pest elimination and kitchen repair and maintenance, with its two operating units that are primarily fee-for-service businesses. In general, these businesses provide service which can augment or extend our product offerings to our business customers as a part of our “Circle the Customer” approach
 
7






 
and, in particular, by enhancing our food safety capabilities.
 
Global Pest Elimination:  Global Pest Elimination provides services designed to detect, eliminate and prevent pests, such as rodents and insects, in restaurants, food and beverage processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick service restaurant and grocery operations and other institutional and commercial customers.  The services of Global Pest Elimination are sold and performed by Company-employed field sales and service personnel.
 
Our Global Pest Elimination business continues to expand its geographic coverage.  In addition to the United States, which constitutes the largest operation, we operate this business in various countries in Asia Pacific, Western Europe, Latin America and South Africa, with the largest operations in France, the United Kingdom and Brazil.
 
We believe Global Pest Elimination is one of the leading suppliers of pest elimination programs to the commercial, hospitality and institutional markets in the geographies we serve.
 
Equipment Care:  Our Equipment Care business provides equipment repair, maintenance and preventive maintenance services for the commercial food service industry.  Repair services are offered for in-warranty repair, acting as the manufacturer’s authorized service agent, as well as after-warranty repair. In addition, Equipment Care operates as a parts distributor to repair service companies and end-use customers. At this time, the Equipment Care business operates solely in the United States.
 
We believe that our Equipment Care business is a leading provider of equipment maintenance and repair programs to the commercial food service industry in the United States locations in which we compete.
 
Additional Information
 
International Operations: We directly operate in approximately 90 countries outside of the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in some cases, through a joint venture with a local partner.  In certain countries, selected products are sold by our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall revenues.  In general, our businesses conducted outside the United States are similar to those conducted in the United States.
 

 
Our business operations outside the United States are subject to the usual risks of foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, international business laws and regulations, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions abroad.  The profitability of our International operations has historically been lower than the profitability of our 
 
8







 
businesses in the United States, due to (i) the additional cost of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions, (ii) higher costs of importing certain raw materials and finished goods in some regions, (iii) the smaller scale of international operations where certain operating locations are smaller in size and (iv) the additional reliance on distributors and agents in certain countries which can negatively impact our margins.  Proportionately larger investments in sales and technical support are also necessary in certain geographies in order to facilitate the growth of our international operations.
 
Competition: In general, the markets in which the businesses in our Global Industrial segment compete are led by a few large companies, with the rest of the market served by smaller entities focusing on more limited geographic regions or a smaller subset of products and services. Our businesses in these segments compete on the basis of their demonstrated value, technical expertise, chemical formulations, customer support, detection equipment, monitoring services, and dosing and metering equipment.
 
The businesses in our Global Institutional and Other segments have two significant classes of competitors.  First, we compete with a small number of large companies selling directly or through distributors on a national or international scale.  Second, we have numerous smaller regional or local competitors which focus on more limited geographies, product lines and/or end-use customer segments.  We believe we compete principally by providing superior value, premium customer support and differentiated products to help our customers protect their brand reputation.
 
Our business in our Global Energy segment competes with a limited number of multinational companies, with the remainder of the market comprised of smaller, regional niche companies focused on limited geographic areas.  We compete in this business on the basis of our product and service quality, technical expertise, chemical formulations and emphasis on safety and environmental leadership.
 
Sales: Products, systems and services are primarily marketed in domestic and international markets by Company-trained field sales personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the proper and efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full range of cleaning and sanitation, water treatment and process chemistry needs.  Independent, third-party distributors are utilized in several markets, as described in the business unit descriptions found under the discussion of the four reportable segments above.
 
Number of Employees: We had approximately 45,415 employees as of December 31, 2013.
 
Customers and Classes of Products:  We believe that our business is not materially dependent upon a single customer.  Additionally, although we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our 2013 consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our financial position.  No material part of our business is subject to renegotiation or termination at the election of a governmental unit.
 
We sold two classes of products within the Global Institutional segment which comprised 10% or more of consolidated net sales in any of the last three years.  Sales of warewashing products were approximately 10% of 2013 consolidated net sales, approximately 11% in 2012 and approximately 18% in 2011.  In addition, through our Institutional and Textile Care businesses around the world, we sell laundry products to a broad range of laundry customers.  Sales of laundry products were approximately 10% of consolidated net sales in 2011.
 
Patents and Trademarks:  We own and license a number of patents, trademarks and other intellectual property.  While we have an active program to protect our intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks, and pursuing legal action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, we do not believe that our overall business is materially dependent on any individual patent or trademark except patents 
 
9






 
related to our TRASAR and 3D TRASAR technology, which are material to our Global Water and Global Paper segments, and trademarks related to Ecolab, Nalco Company and 3D TRASAR.  The Ecolab trademarks are material to the Global Industrial, Global Institutional and Other segments and the Nalco trademarks are material to the Global Water, Global Paper and Global Energy businesses.  The 3D TRASAR trademarks predominantly relate to our Global Water and Global Paper segments.  U.S. and foreign patents protect aspects of our key TRASAR and 3D TRASAR technology until at least 2024. The Ecolab, Nalco Company and 3D TRASAR trademarks are registered or applied for in all of our key markets, and we anticipate maintaining them indefinitely.
 
Seasonality:  We experience variability in our quarterly operating results due to seasonal sales volume and business mix fluctuations in our operating segments.  Note 18, entitled “Quarterly Financial Data” located on page 65 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Working Capital:  We have invested in the past, and will continue to invest in the future, in merchandising and customer equipment consisting primarily of systems used by customers to dispense our products as well as to monitor water systems.  Otherwise, we have no unusual working capital requirements.
 
Manufacturing and Distribution:  We manufacture most of our products and related equipment in Company-operated manufacturing facilities. Some products are also produced for us by third-party contract manufacturers.  Other products and equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers.  Additional information on product/equipment sourcing is found in the segment discussions above and additional information on our manufacturing facilities is located beginning at page 26 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Properties.”
 
Deliveries to customers are made from our manufacturing plants and a network of distribution centers and third-party logistics service providers.  We use common carriers, our own delivery vehicles, and distributors for transport.  Additional information on our plant and distribution facilities is located beginning at page 26 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Properties.”
 
Raw Materials:  Raw materials purchased for use in manufacturing our products are inorganic chemicals, including alkalis, acids, biocides, phosphonates, phosphorous materials, silicates and salts; and organic chemicals, including acids, amines, fatty acids, surfactants, solvents, monomers and polymers.  Global Healthcare purchases plastic films and parts to manufacture medical devices that serve the surgical and infection prevention markets.  Pesticides used by our Pest Elimination Division are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order from the producers or their distributors.  We also purchase packaging materials for our manufactured products and components for our specialized cleaning equipment and systems.  We purchase more than 8,000 raw materials, with the largest single raw material representing less than 3% of raw material purchases.  Our raw materials, with the exception of a few specialized chemicals which we manufacture, are generally purchased on an annual contract basis and are ordinarily available in adequate quantities from a diverse group of suppliers globally.  When practical, global sourcing is used so that purchasing or production locations can be shifted to control product costs at globally competitive levels.
 
Research and Development:  Our research and development program consists principally of devising and testing new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, evaluating the environmental compatibility of products and technical support. Key disciplines include analytical and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process and packaging engineering, remote monitoring engineering and product dispensing technology.  Substantially all of our principal products have been developed by our research, development and engineering personnel. At times, technology has also been licensed from third parties to develop offerings.
 
10






 
We believe that continued research and development activities are critical to maintaining our leadership position within the industry and will provide us with a competitive advantage as we seek additional business with new and existing customers.
 
Note 14, entitled “Research Expenditures” located on page 56 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Joint Ventures: Over time, certain of our business units have entered into partnerships or joint ventures in order to meet local ownership requirements, to more quickly achieve operational scale, to expand our ability to provide our customers a more fully integrated offering or to provide other benefits to our business or customers.  In particular, our Global Energy and Global Water businesses are parties to numerous joint ventures, though many of our other business units also conduct some business through joint ventures.  During 2013, the impact on our consolidated net income of our joint ventures, in the aggregate, was less than one percent.  The table below identifies our most significant consolidated and non-consolidated joint ventures, summarized by the primary purpose of the joint venture.
 
Local Ownership Requirements / Geographic Expansion
 



Joint Venture    

     

Location    

     

Segment       


Nalco Angola Prestaca de Servicos    

     

Angola    

     

Global   Energy       


Nalco   Saudi    

     

Saudi   Arabia    

     

Global   Energy, Global Industrial       


Rauan   Nalco LLP    

     

Kazakhstan    

     

Global   Energy       


Emirates   National Chemicals    

     

United   Arab Emirates    

     

Global   Energy       


Ecolab   SA    

     

Venezuela    

     

Global   Institutional,  Global Industrial       


P.T. Champion Kurnia Djaja Technologies    

     

Indonesia    

     

Global   Energy       


Malaysian   Energy Chemical    

     

Malaysia    

     

Global   Energy       


OWT   Oil-Water Treatment Services B.V.    

     

Netherlands    

     

Global   Energy       


Champion Dai-ichi Technologies India    

     

India    

     

Global   Energy         
 
Operational Scale / Geographic Critical Mass 
 



Joint Venture    

     

Location    

     

Segment       


Katayama   Chemical    

     

Japan    

     

Global   Industrial       


Nalco   Protea Chemicals    

     

Southern   Africa    

     

Global   Energy, Global Industrial         
 
Technology / Expanded Product Offering / Manufacturing Capability
 



Joint Venture    

     

Location    

     

Segment       


Treated   Water Outsourcing    

     

United   States    

     

Global   Industrial       


Derypol    

     

Spain    

     

Global   Industrial       


OOO   Kogalym plant    

     

Russia    

     

Global   Energy       


Century   LLC    

     

United   States    

     

Global   Institutional       


TIORCO    

     

Global    

     

Global   Energy       


Nalco   Element JV    

     

Russia    

     

Global   Energy         
 
We will continue to evaluate the potential for partnerships and joint ventures that can assist us in increasing our geographic, technological and product reach.
 
Environmental and Regulatory Considerations:  Our businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and public health.  While we cooperate with governmental authorities and take commercially practicable measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or limit environmental effects, some risks are inherent in our businesses. Among the risks are costs associated with transporting and managing hazardous materials and waste disposal and plant site clean-up, fines and penalties if we are found to be in violation of law, as well as modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain operations or types of operations including 
 
11






 
product recalls and reformulations.  Similarly, the need for certain of our products and services is dependent upon or might be limited by governmental laws and regulations.  Changes in such laws and regulations, including among others, air pollution regulations and regulations relating to oil and gas production (including those related to hydraulic fracturing), could impact the sales of some of our products or services.  In addition to an increase in costs of manufacturing and delivering products, a change in production regulations or product regulations could result in interruptions to our business and potentially cause economic or consequential losses should we be unable to meet the demands of our customers for products.
 
Additionally, although we are not currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no assurance that future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  Environmental and regulatory matters most significant to us are discussed below.
 
Ingredient Legislation:  Various laws and regulations have been enacted by state, local and foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of products which contain phosphorous, volatile organic compounds, or other ingredients that may impact human health or the environment. Under California Proposition 65, for example, label disclosures are required for certain products containing chemicals listed by California.  Chemical management initiatives that promote pollution prevention through research and development of safer chemicals and safer chemical processes are being advanced by certain states, including California, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Oregon and South Carolina.  Environmentally preferable purchasing programs for cleaning products have been enacted in nine states to date, and in 2012 were considered by several other state legislatures.  Cleaning product ingredient disclosure legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress in each of the past few years but has not passed, and several states including California and New York are considering further regulations in this area.  The California Safer Consumer Products Act regulations became effective in 2013 and focus on ingredients in consumer products that have the potential for widespread public exposure.  The U.S. Government is monitoring “green chemistry” initiatives through a variety of initiatives, including its “Design for the Environment” (“DfE”) program.  DfE has three broad areas of work (recognition of safer products on a DfE label, development of best practices for industrial processes and evaluation of safer chemicals), and we are involved in these to varying degrees.  Ecolab’s Institutional cleaning products are subject to the regulations and may incur additional stay-in-market expenses associated with conducting the required alternatives analyses for chemicals of concern.  To date, Ecolab generally has been able to comply with such legislative requirements by reformulation or labeling modifications.  Such legislation has not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows to date.
 
TSCA:  Re-authorization of the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) and an update of the chemicals on the TSCA Inventory (the so-called “reset” of the TSCA Inventory) are again being discussed in the U.S. Congress, and also has garnered considerable discussion with the business and non-governmental communities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) also is more aggressively using the existing TSCA tools to manage chemicals of concern.  We anticipate that compliance with new requirements under TSCA could be similar to the costs associated with REACH in the European Union, which is discussed below.
 
12






 
REACH:  The European Union has enacted a regulatory framework for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”).  It established a new European Chemicals Agency (“ECHA”) in Helsinki, Finland, which is responsible for evaluating data to determine hazards and risks and to manage this program for authorizing chemicals for sale and distribution in Europe.  We met the pre-registration requirements of REACH, the 2010 and 2013 registration deadlines, and are on track to meet the upcoming registration deadlines and requirements in 2018.  To help manage this  program, we have been simplifying our product line and working with chemical suppliers to comply with registration requirements.  Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period or on our financial position.
 
GHS:  In 2003, the United Nations issued a standard on hazard communication and labeling of chemical products known as the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (“GHS”). GHS is designed to facilitate international trade and increase safe handling and use of hazardous chemicals through a worldwide system that classifies chemicals based on their intrinsic hazards and communicates information about those hazards through standardized product labels and safety data sheets (“SDSs”). Most countries in which we operate will adopt GHS-related legislation, and numerous countries already have done so. The primary cost of compliance revolves around reclassifying products and revising SDSs and product labels, and we are working toward a phased-in approach to mitigate the costs of GHS implementation.  Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period or on our financial position.
 
Pesticide and Biocide Legislation: Various international, federal and state environmental laws and regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of pesticides. We manufacture and sell certain disinfecting, sanitizing and material preservation products that kill or reduce microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on hard environmental surfaces, in process fluids and on certain food products. Such products constitute “pesticides” or “antimicrobial pesticides” under the current definitions of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), as amended by the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996, the principal federal statute governing the manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides. We maintain several hundred product registrations with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). Registration entails the necessity to meet certain efficacy, toxicity and labeling requirements and to pay on-going registration fees. In addition, each state in which these products are sold requires registration and payment of a fee. In general, the states impose no substantive requirements different from those required by FIFRA. However, California and certain other states have adopted additional regulatory programs, and California imposes a tax on total pesticide sales in that state. While the cost of complying with rules as to pesticides has not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows to date, the costs and delays in receiving necessary approvals for these products continue to increase. Total fees paid to the EPA and the states to obtain or maintain pesticide registrations, and for the California tax, were approximately $4.2 million in 2013 and $3.7 million in 2012.
 
In Europe, the Biocidal Product Directive and the more recent Biocidal Products Regulation established a program to evaluate and authorize marketing of biocidal active substances and products. We are working with suppliers and industry groups to manage
 
13






 
these requirements and have met the first relevant deadline of the program by the timely submission of dossiers for active substances. Anticipated registration costs, which will be incurred through the multi-year phase-in period, will be significant; however, these costs are not expected to significantly affect our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period or our financial position.
 
In addition, our Global Pest Elimination business applies restricted-use pesticides that it generally purchases from third parties. That Division must comply with certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the licensing of employees who apply such pesticides. Such regulations are enforced primarily by the states or local jurisdictions in conformity with federal regulations. We have not experienced material difficulties in complying with these requirements.
 
FDA Antimicrobial Product Requirements: Various laws and regulations have been enacted by federal, state, local and foreign jurisdictions regulating certain products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and foods.  In the United States, these requirements generally are administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and EPA also may share in regulatory jurisdiction of antimicrobials applied to food. The FDA codifies “Good Manufacturing Practices” for these products in order to ensure product quality, safety and effectiveness.  The FDA also has been expanding requirements applicable to such products, including proposing regulations for over-the-counter (“OTC”) antiseptic drug products, which may impose additional requirements associated with antimicrobial hand care products and associated costs when finalized by the FDA. To date, such requirements have not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Medical Device and Drug Product Requirements:  As a manufacturer, distributor and marketer of medical devices, we also are subject to regulation by the FDA and corresponding regulatory agencies of the state, local and foreign governments in which we sell our products.  These regulations govern the development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and marketing of medical devices.  We also are required to register with the FDA as a medical device manufacturer, comply with post-market reporting (e.g., MDR and Recall) requirements, and to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations which require that we have a quality system for the design and production of our products intended for commercial distribution in the United States and satisfy recordkeeping requirements with respect to our manufacturing, testing and control activities.  Countries in the European Union require that certain products being sold within their jurisdictions obtain a “CE mark”, an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards, and be manufactured in compliance with certain requirements (e.g., Medical Device Directive 93/42/ECC, as amended by 2007/47/EC, and ISO 13485).  We have CE mark approval to sell various medical device products in Europe.  Our other international non-European operations also are subject to government regulation and country-specific rules and regulations.  Regulators at the federal, state and local level have imposed, are currently considering and are expected to continue to impose regulations on medical devices and drug products.  No prediction can be made of the potential effect of any such future regulations, and there can be no assurance that future legislation or regulations will not increase the costs of our products or prohibit the sale or use of certain products.
 
14






 
Other Environmental Legislation; Capital Expenditures: Our manufacturing plants are subject to federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations relating to discharge of hazardous substances into the environment and to the transportation, handling and disposal of such substances. The primary federal statutes that apply to our activities in the United States are the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to emissions of hazardous substances into the air, land and water. Similar legal requirements apply to Ecolab’s facilities globally.  We make capital investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, to ensure employee safety and to carry out our announced environmental sustainability principles. To date, such expenditures have not had a significant adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our capital expenditures for environmental, health and safety projects worldwide were approximately $15 million in 2013 and $20 million in 2012.  Approximately $50 million has been budgeted globally for projects in 2014.
 
Climate Change: Various laws and regulations pertaining to climate change have been implemented or are being considered for implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels, particularly as they relate to the reduction of greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. None of these laws and regulations directly apply to Ecolab at the present time; however, as a matter of corporate policy, Ecolab supports a balanced approach to reducing GHG emissions while sustaining economic growth and competitiveness. Ecolab is committed to reducing its carbon footprint.  To help manage risks from GHG emissions and identify cost-effective reduction opportunities, Ecolab joined  EPA’s Climate Leaders program in 2005.  Though EPA announced in 2010 that it was dissolving the program, Ecolab has continued with much of its work to reduce its carbon footprint.  For example, Ecolab has developed a U.S.-based GHG inventory of the six major greenhouse gases and reported progress against Ecolab’s goal of reducing GHG emissions by 19% per dollar sales from 2006 to 2012.  Using the combined company’s 2012 metrics as an operational baseline, Ecolab set new goals in 2013 to further improve its environmental impact within the next five years. Among these new targets, Ecolab will work to achieve a five percent reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, a 10 percent reduction in water use and wastewater discharge, and a 10 percent reduction in the disposal of solid waste, per million dollars in sales. We also leverage over one million customer locations globally to reduce energy and greenhouse gas emissions through high-efficiency solutions in cleaning and sanitation, water, paper and energy services.  These actions directly reduce greenhouse gas emissions by lessening the demand for energy.  We can indirectly reduce energy demand by recognizing the critical connection of water and energy, especially in industrial processes reliant on water to transmit thermal energy.  Our customers employ our technologies and expertise in an exponentially greater scale to improve their own overall energy use.
 
Environmental Remediation and Proceedings: Along with numerous other potentially responsible parties (“PRP”), we are currently involved with waste disposal site clean-up activities imposed by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or state equivalents at 42 sites in the United States. Additionally, we have similar liability at eight sites outside the United States. In general, under CERCLA, we and each other PRP that actually contributed hazardous substances to a Superfund site are jointly and severally liable for the costs associated with cleaning up the site. Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to agree and implement a plan for site remediation.
 
15






 
Based on an analysis of our experience with such environmental proceedings, our estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the sites referred to in the preceding paragraph, and our estimate of the contribution to be made by other PRPs which we believe have the financial ability to pay their shares, we have accrued our best estimate of our probable future costs relating to such known sites. Unasserted claims are not reflected in the accrual. In establishing accruals, potential insurance reimbursements are not included. The accrual is not discounted. It is not feasible to predict when the amounts accrued will be paid due to the uncertainties inherent in the environmental remediation and associated regulatory processes.
 
We have also been named as a defendant in lawsuits where our products have not caused injuries, but the claimants wish to be monitored for potential future injuries. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any such tort claims or the involvement we or our products might have in such matters in the future and there can be no assurance that the discovery of previously unknown conditions will not require significant expenditures. In each of these chemical exposure cases, our insurance carriers have accepted the claims on our behalf (with or without reservation) and our financial exposure should be limited to the amount of our deductible; however, we cannot predict the number of claims that we may have to defend in the future and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance.
 
We have also been named as a defendant in a number of lawsuits alleging personal injury due to exposure to hazardous substances, including multi-party lawsuits alleging personal injury in connection with our products and services.  While we do not believe that any of these suits will be material to us based upon present information, there can be no assurance that these environmental matters could not have, either individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Our worldwide net expenditures for contamination remediation were approximately $4.2 million in 2013 and $2.4 million in 2012.  Our worldwide accruals at December 31, 2013 for probable future remediation expenditures, excluding potential insurance reimbursements, totaled approximately $22 million. We review our exposure for contamination remediation costs periodically and our accruals are adjusted as considered appropriate. While the final resolution of these issues could result in costs below or above current accruals and, therefore, have an impact on our consolidated financial results in a future reporting period, we believe the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Disclosure of Certain Activities Related to Iran: We had no transactions in 2013 in Iran or any other country subject to comprehensive U.S. economic sanctions, including the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (the “Iran Threat Reduction Act”), or which would otherwise require disclosure under the Iran Threat Reduction Act.
 
Item 1(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas.
 
The financial information about geographic areas appearing under the heading “Operating Segments and Geographic Information” in Note 17, located on pages 63 and 64 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 1(e) Available Information.
 
Our Internet address is www.ecolab.com. Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
 
16







 
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are available free of  charge on our website www.ecolab.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
In addition, the following governance materials are available on our web site at www.ecolab.com/investors/corporate-governance: (i) charters of the Audit, Compensation, Finance, Governance and Safety, Health and Environment Committees of our Board of Directors; (ii) our Board’s Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) our Code of Conduct.
 
Executive Officers of the Registrant.
 
The persons listed in the following table are our current executive officers. Officers are elected annually. There is no family relationship among any of the directors or executive officers, and except as otherwise noted, no executive officer has been involved during the past ten years in any legal proceedings described in applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.
 



Name    

     

Age    

     

Office    

     

Positions Held Since    Jan. 1, 2009       


Douglas   M. Baker, Jr.    

     

55    

     

Chairman   of the Board and Chief Executive Officer    

     

Dec.   2011 - Present       


     

     

     

     

Chairman   of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer    

     

Jan.   2009 – Nov. 2011       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Christophe   Beck    

     

46    

     

Executive   Vice President and President – Regions    

     

Oct.   2012 - Present       


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President – Global Integration    

     

Dec.   2011 – Sep.2012       


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President – Institutional    

     

May   2009 – Nov. 2011       


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President and General Manager – Institutional North America Full Service   Restaurants    

     

Jan.   2009 – Apr. 2009       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Larry   L. Berger    

     

53    

     

Executive   Vice President and Chief Technical Officer    

     

Oct.   2011 - Present       


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President and Chief Technical Officer    

     

Jan.   2009 – Sep.2011       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Alex N.   Blanco    

     

53    

     

Executive   Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer    

     

Jan.   2013 – Present (1)       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


John J.   Corkrean    

     

48    

     

Senior   Vice President and Corporate Controller    

     

Oct.   2011 - Present       


     

     

     

     

Vice President   and Corporate Controller    

     

Apr.   2008 – Sep.2011       


     

     

     

     

Vice   President and Treasurer    

     

Jan.   2009 – Mar. 2008       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Thomas   W. Handley    

     

59    

     

President   and Chief Operating Officer    

     

Sep.   2012 - Present       


     

     

     

     

Senior   Executive Vice President and President – Global Food & Beverage and Asia   Pacific Latin America    

     

Oct.   2011 – Aug.2012       


     

     

     

     

President,   Global Food & Beverage and APLA Sectors    

     

Jan.   2011 – Sep. 2011       


     

     

     

     

President,   Global Food & Beverage    

     

Sep.   2009 – Dec. 2010       


     

     

     

     

President   – Industrial and Services North America Sector    

     

Jan.   2009 – Aug. 2009         
 
17






 



Name    

     

Age    

     

Office    

     

Positions Held Since    Jan. 1, 2009       


Michael   A. Hickey    

     

52    

     

Executive   Vice President and President – Global Institutional    

     

Oct.   2012 – Present       


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President and President – Institutional    

     

Aug.   2011 – Sep.2012       


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President Global Services Sector    

     

Jan.   2011 – Jul. 2011       


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President, Service Sector    

     

Jan.   2010 – Dec. 2010       


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President – Global Business Development and General Manager GCS Service    

     

Jan.   2009 – Dec. 2009       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Laurie   M. Marsh    

     

50    

     

Executive   Vice President – Human Resources    

     

Nov.   2013 – Present       


     

     

     

     

Vice   President – Total Rewards and HR Service Delivery & Technology    

     

Dec.   2011 – Oct.2013 (2)       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Timothy   P. Mulhere    

     

51    

     

Executive   Vice President and President – Global Water and Process Services    

     

Oct.   2012 – Present       


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President and President – Global Healthcare    

     

Feb.   2012 – Sep.2012       


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President and General Manager – Food & Beverage North America    

     

Apr.   2009 – Jan. 2012       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Daniel   J. Schmechel    

     

54    

     

Chief   Financial Officer    

     

Oct.   2012 - Present       


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President – Services and Systems    

     

Jun.   2012 – Sep.2012       


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President and Chief Transformation Officer – EMEA    

     

Jan.   2009 – May 2012       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


James   J. Seifert    

     

57    

     

Executive   Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary    

     

Oct.   2011 – Present       


     

     

     

     

General   Counsel & Secretary    

     

May   2010 – Sep. 2011(3)       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Stephen   M. Taylor    

     

52    

     

Executive   Vice President and President – Nalco Champion    

     

Apr.   2013 - Present       


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President and President – Global Energy Services    

     

Oct.   2012 – March 2013       


     

     

     

     

Executive   Vice President – Energy Services    

     

Dec.   2011 – Sep.2012 (4)       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Jill S.   Wyant    

     

42    

     

Executive   Vice President and President – Global Food & Beverage    

     

Oct.   2012 – Present       


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President and General Manager – North America and Latin America    

     

Jan.   2012 – Sep. 2012       


     

     

     

     

Senior   Vice President – Food & Beverage Asia Pacific and Latin America    

     

May   2010 – Dec. 2011       


     

     

     

     

Vice   President – Global Strategic Planning    

     

Jun.   2009 – Apr. 2010 (5)         
 

(1)         Prior to joining Ecolab in 2013, Mr. Blanco was employed by Procter & Gamble Co., for 30 years, most recently as Vice President, Product Supply Global Beauty Sector.
(2)         Prior to joining Ecolab in 2011 upon the closing of the Nalco merger, Ms. Marsh was employed by Nalco for 20 years, most recently as Executive Vice President of Human Resources.
(3)         Prior to joining Ecolab in 2010, Mr. Seifert was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Bemis Company, Inc. since 2002.
(4)         Prior to joining Ecolab in 2011 upon closing of the Nalco merger, Mr. Taylor was employed by Nalco for 17 years. Mr. Taylor led Nalco’s Energy Services Division since 2007 after a series of leadership roles in the division.
(5)         Prior to joining Ecolab in 2009, Ms. Wyant held multiple leadership positions at General Electric.
 
18






 
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
 
The following are important factors which could affect our financial performance and could cause our actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. See the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 1 of this Form 10-K.
 
We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements including those made in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the public.
 
Except as may be required under applicable law, we undertake no duty to update our Forward-Looking Statements.
 
Our results depend upon the continued vitality of the markets we serve:  Economic downturns, and in particular downturns in the energy, foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care, food processing, pulp and paper, mining and steel industries, can adversely impact our end-users.  In recent years, the weak global economic environment, particularly in the United States and Europe, has negatively impacted many of our end-markets. Weak economic activity may continue to adversely affect these markets. During such cycles, these end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing products and water treatment and process chemicals, which has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business.
 
Our results are impacted by general worldwide economic factors:  Economic factors such as the worldwide economy, capital flows, interest rates and currency movements, including, in particular, our exposure to foreign currency risk, have affected our business in the past and may have a material adverse impact on our business in the future.  In 2008 and 2009, the global economy experienced considerable disruption and volatility, and the disruption was particularly acute in the global credit markets.  In 2011 and 2012, the European Union’s sovereign debt crisis negatively impacted economic activity in that region as well as the strength of the euro versus the U.S. dollar.  Other regions of the world, including emerging market areas, also expose us to foreign currency risk.  For example, we do business in Venezuela, which experienced a currency devaluation in 2010 and again in 2013.  Similar currency devaluations, credit market disruptions or other economic turmoil in other countries could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows by negatively impacting economic activity, including in our key end-markets, and by further weakening the local currency versus the U.S. dollar, resulting in reduced sales and earnings from our foreign operations, which are generated in the local currency, and then translated to U.S. dollars.
 
We may encounter difficulties completing the integration of the Nalco and Champion transactions and fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions:  On December 1, 2011, we completed the Nalco merger and on April 10, 2013 we completed the acquisition of Champion.  Following the acquisition of Champion, Ecolab commenced a restructuring plan to integrate the Nalco Global Energy business with Champion to realize acquisition-related cost synergies as well as strengthen and streamline the Company’s position in the fast growing global energy market. Additionally, during 2013, Ecolab combined a Nalco merger restructuring plan commenced in January 2012 with a separate legacy Ecolab restructuring plan commenced in February 2011. The combined plan focuses on global actions related to optimization of the supply chain and office facilities, including reductions of plant and distribution center locations. Potential difficulties that we may encounter as part of the integration activities and restructuring plans, which may preclude us from fully realizing the anticipated benefits of the Nalco and Champion transactions, including expected synergies, include the following:
 
19






 
·                  complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including the challenge of integrating complex information technology systems, communications systems, financial reporting systems, supply chain and procurement arrangements and other assets of Nalco and Champion in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies;
 
·                  the possibility that our businesses may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the impact of the integration on employees and customers;
 
·                  potential unknown liabilities in the legacy Nalco and Champion businesses or arising out of integration of the businesses;
 
·                  unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the integration of the various businesses;
 
·                  the inability to successfully combine the businesses of the companies in a manner that permits us to achieve the full revenue and cost synergies anticipated to result from these transactions;
 
·                  problems that may arise in integrating the workforces of the companies, including the possible loss of key employees;
 
·                  potential problems in maintaining and integrating effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting for the combined company; and
 
·                  the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transactions or could reduce the combined company’s earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company.
 
We depend on key personnel to lead our business:  Our continued success will largely depend on our ability to attract and retain a high caliber of talent and on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees, particularly those with sales and sales management responsibilities. This is especially crucial as we continue to integrate Nalco and Champion, which are led by industry veterans that we believe are critical to the success of the integration and the prospects of the business. Our operations could be adversely affected if for any reason such officers or key employees did not remain with us.
 
If we are unsuccessful in executing on key business initiatives, our business could be adversely affected:  In addition to the restructuring plans related to the Nalco and Champion transactions, we continue to make investments and execute business initiatives to develop business systems and optimize our business structure as part of our ongoing efforts to improve our efficiency and returns. In particular, we continue to invest in our ERP systems to integrate and streamline our processes and to improve our competitiveness. These initiatives involve complex business process design and a breakdown in certain of these processes could result in business disruption. If the projects in which we are investing or the initiatives which we are pursuing are not successfully executed, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.
 
We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security:  We rely to a large extent upon information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack.  Recent acquisitions, including the 
 
20






 
Nalco and Champion transactions, have resulted in further de-centralization of systems and additional complexity in the system’s infrastructure.  Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested in protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.
 
Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to global economic, political and legal risks that could impact our profitability:  We have significant operations outside the United States, including joint ventures and other alliances. We conduct business in approximately 170 countries and, in 2013, approximately 49% of our net sales originated outside the United States. There are inherent risks in our international operations, including:
 
·                  exchange controls and currency restrictions;
 
·                  currency fluctuations and devaluations;
 
·                  tariffs and trade barriers;
 
·                  export duties and quotas;
 
·                  changes in the availability and pricing of raw materials, energy and utilities;
 
·                  changes in local economic conditions;
 
·                  changes in laws and regulations;
 
·                  difficulties in managing international operations and the burden of complying with foreign laws;
 
·                  difficulties in collecting receivables or realizing other assets;
 
·                  requirements to include local ownership or management in our business;
 
·                  exposure to possible expropriation, nationalization or other government actions;
 
·                  restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries;
 
·                  unsettled political conditions, military action, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; and
 
·                  countries whose governments have been hostile to U.S.-based businesses.
 
Also, because of uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights, we face risks in some countries that our intellectual property rights and contract rights would not be enforced by local governments. We are also periodically faced with the risk of economic uncertainty, which has impacted our business in some countries. Other risks in international business also include difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, including managing credit risk to local customers and distributors.
 
Further, our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations, including anti-corruption laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, as well as U.S. economic sanctions regulations. We have internal policies and procedures relating to such regulations; however, there is risk that such
 
21






 
policies and procedures will not always protect us from the reckless acts of employees or representatives, particularly in the case of recently acquired operations that may not have significant training in applicable compliance policies and procedures.  Violations of such laws and regulations could result in disruptive investigations of the Company, significant fines and sanctions, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social, legal and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Our business depends on our ability to comply with laws and governmental regulations, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations:  Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the environment, including evolving climate change standards, and to the manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and use of our products as well as to the conduct of our business generally, including employment and labor laws. Compliance with these laws and regulations exposes us to potential financial liability and increases our operating costs.  Regulation of our products and operations continues to increase with more stringent standards, causing increased costs of operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. The potential cost to us relating to environmental and product registration laws and regulations is uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. Changes to current laws (including tax laws), regulations and policies could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices which would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
We are a defendant in five wage hour lawsuits claiming violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act (“FLSA”) or a similar state law.  While we have settled two other wage hour cases during the past year, including Doug Ladore v. Ecolab Inc., et al., United States District Court for the Central District of California, case no. CV 11-9386 GAF (FMOx), which was a putative wage hour class action brought on behalf of California Pest Elimination employees, there can be no assurance that other pending or future wage hour lawsuits can be successfully defended or settled.
 
Our subsidiaries are defendants in pending lawsuits alleging negligence and injury resulting from the use of our COREXIT dispersant in response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, which could expose us to monetary damages or settlement costs: Our subsidiaries were named as defendants in pending lawsuits alleging negligence and injury resulting from the use of our COREXIT dispersant in response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, which could expose us to monetary damages or settlement costs.  On April 22, 2010, the deepwater drilling platform, the Deepwater Horizon, operated by a subsidiary of BP plc, sank in the Gulf of Mexico after a catastrophic explosion and fire that began on April 20, 2010. A massive oil spill resulted. Approximately one week following the incident, subsidiaries of BP plc, under the authorization of the responding federal agencies, formally requested our indirect subsidiary, Nalco Company, to supply large quantities of COREXIT 9500, a Nalco oil dispersant product listed on the U.S. EPA National Contingency Plan Product Schedule. Nalco Company responded immediately by providing available COREXIT and increasing production to supply the product to BP’s subsidiaries for use, as authorized and directed by agencies of the federal government.
 
Nalco Company and certain affiliates (collectively “Nalco”) was named as a defendant in a series of class action and individual plaintiff lawsuits arising from this event.  The plaintiffs in these matters claimed damages under products liability, tort and other theories. Nalco was also named as a third party defendant in certain matters.  Nalco was indemnified in these matters by another of the defendants.
 
22






 
All but one of these cases have been administratively transferred to a judge in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana with other related cases under In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico, on April 20, 2010, Case No. 10-md-02179 (E.D. La.) (the “MDL”). The remaining case is Franks v. Sea Tow of South Miss, Inc., et al, Cause No. A2402-10-228 (Circuit Court of Harrison County Mississippi) (the “Remaining Case”).
 
Nalco Company, the incident defendants and the other responder defendants have been named as third party defendants by Transocean Deepwater Drilling, Inc. and its affiliates (the “Transocean Entities”) (In re the Complaint and Petition of Triton Asset Leasing GmbH, et al, MDL No. 2179, Civil Action 10-2771). In April and May 2011, the Transocean Entities, Cameron International Corporation, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., M-I L.L.C., Weatherford U.S., L.P. and Weatherford International, Inc. (collectively, the “Cross Claimants”) filed cross claims in MDL 2179 against Nalco Company and other unaffiliated cross defendants. The Cross Claimants generally allege, among other things, that if they are found liable for damages resulting from the Deepwater Horizon explosion, oil spill and/or spill response, they are entitled to indemnity or contribution from the cross defendants.
 
On November 28, 2012, the Federal Court in the MDL entered an order dismissing all claims against Nalco.  Because claims remain pending against other defendants, the Court’s decision is not a “final judgment” for purposes of appeal.  Plaintiffs will have 30 days after entry of final judgment to appeal the Court’s decision.  Nalco will request that the Remaining Case be similarly dismissed for the reasons accepted in the MDL.  We cannot predict whether there will be an appeal of the dismissal, the involvement we might have in these matters in the future or the potential for future litigation.  However, if an appeal by plaintiffs in these lawsuits is brought and won, or if the remaining state court case is not dismissed, these suits could have a material adverse affect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Our growth depends upon our ability to successfully compete with respect to value, innovation and customer support:  Our competitive market is made up of numerous global, national, regional and local competitors. Our ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize innovative, high value-added products for niche applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish this or that technological developments by our competitors will not place certain of our products at a competitive disadvantage in the future. In addition, certain of the new products that we have under development will be offered in markets in which we do not currently compete, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in those new markets. If we fail to introduce new technologies on a timely basis, we may lose market share and our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.
 
Our results can be adversely affected by difficulties in securing the supply of certain raw materials or by fluctuations in the cost of raw materials:  The prices of raw materials used in our business can fluctuate from time to time, and in recent years we have experienced periods of increased raw material costs. Changes in raw material prices, unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw materials or substitutes for those raw materials, or the inability to obtain or renew supply agreements on favorable terms can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, volatility and disruption in economic activity and conditions could disrupt or delay the performance of our suppliers and thus impact our ability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our business.
 
We have substantial indebtedness which will impact our financial flexibility: As of December 31, 2013, we had net debt (total debt minus cash and cash equivalents) of $6.6 billion.  Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position including in the following respects:
 
23







 
·                  requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to debt service obligations, thereby potentially reducing the availability of cash flows to pay cash dividends and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general operating requirements and opportunities;
 
·                  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service obligations and other general operating requirements;
 
·                  placing us at a relative competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt;
 
·                  limiting flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in the businesses and industries in which we operate, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to meet our debt service obligations; and
 
·                  increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions.
 
In addition, approximately $1.16 billion of our debt is floating rate debt.  A one percentage point increase in the average interest rate on our floating rate debt would increase future interest expense by approximately $11.6 million per year.  Accordingly a significant spike in interest rates would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.
 
If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our substantial indebtedness may intensify.
 
If we are unsuccessful in integrating acquisitions, our business could be adversely affected: As part of our long-term strategy, we seek to acquire complementary businesses. There can be no assurance that we will find attractive acquisition candidates or succeed at effectively managing the integration of acquired businesses into existing businesses. If the underlying business performance of such acquired businesses deteriorates, the expected synergies from such transactions do not materialize or we fail to successfully integrate new businesses into our existing businesses, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.
 
We enter into multi-year contracts with customers that can impact our results:   Our multi-year contracts with some of our customers include terms affecting our pricing flexibility. There can be no assurance that these restraints will not have an adverse impact on our margins and consolidated results of operations.
 
Consolidation of our customers and vendors can affect our results:  Customers and vendors in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, healthcare, food processing and pulp and paper industries as well as other industries we serve have consolidated in recent years and that trend may continue. This consolidation could have an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers and on our margins and consolidated results of operations.
 
Severe public health outbreaks may adversely impact our business:  Our business could be adversely affected by the effect of a public health epidemic.  The United States and other countries have experienced, and may experience in the future, public health outbreaks such as Avian Flu, SARS and H1N1 influenza.  A prolonged occurrence of a contagious disease such as these could result in a significant downturn in the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries and also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel further impacting our end markets.  Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for some of our products and services and adversely affect our business.
 
We incur significant expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets and may be required to report losses resulting from the impairment of goodwill or other assets recorded in connection with the Nalco and Champion transactions and other acquisitions: Ecolab expects to
 
24






 
continue to complete selected acquisitions and joint venture transactions in the future. In connection with acquisition and joint venture transactions, applicable accounting rules generally require the tangible and intangible assets of the acquired business to be recorded on the balance sheet of the acquiring company at their fair values. Intangible assets other than goodwill are required to be amortized over their estimated useful lives and this expense may be significant. Any excess in the purchase price paid by the acquiring company over the fair value of tangible and intangible assets of the acquired business is recorded as goodwill.  If it is later determined that the anticipated future cash flows from the acquired business may be less than the carrying values of the assets and goodwill of the acquired business, the assets or goodwill may be deemed to be impaired. In this case, the acquiring company may be required under applicable accounting rules to write down the value of the assets or goodwill on its balance sheet to reflect the extent of the impairment. This write-down of assets or goodwill is generally recognized as a non-cash expense in the statement of operations of the acquiring company for the accounting period during which the write down occurs. As of December 31, 2013, we had goodwill of $6.9 billion which is maintained in various reporting units, including goodwill from the Nalco and Champion transactions which resulted in the addition of $4.5 billion and $1.0 billion of goodwill, respectively.  If we determine that any of the assets or goodwill recorded in connection with the Nalco and Champion transactions or any other prior or future acquisitions or joint venture transactions have become impaired, we will be required to record a loss resulting from the impairment. Impairment losses could be significant and could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position.
 
Future events may impact our deferred tax position, including the utilization of foreign tax credits and undistributed earnings of international affiliates that are considered to be reinvested indefinitely:  We evaluate the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the need for deferred tax liabilities based on available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between future projected operating performance and actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments (either increases or decreases), to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance are determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry-back or carry-forward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates used to establish the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Changes to the valuation allowance or the amount of deferred tax liabilities could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations or financial position.  Further, should the Company change its assertion regarding the permanent reinvestment of the undistributed earnings of international affiliates, a deferred tax liability may need to be established.
 
A chemical spill or release could adversely impact our business:  As a manufacturer and supplier of chemical products, there is a potential for chemicals to be accidentally spilled, released or discharged, either in liquid or gaseous form, during production, transportation or use.  Such a release could result in environmental contamination as well as a human or animal health hazard.  Accordingly, such a release could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Extraordinary events may significantly impact our business:  The occurrence of (a) litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or distributor, (c) war (including acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural or manmade disasters, (e) water shortages or (f) severe weather conditions affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries may have a material adverse effect on our business.
 
25






 
Defense of litigation, particularly certain types of actions such as antitrust, patent infringement, wage hour and class action lawsuits, can be costly and time consuming even if ultimately successful, and if not successful could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
While we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse effect on our financial position.
 
War (including acts of terrorism or hostilities), natural or manmade disasters, water shortages or severe weather conditions affecting the energy, foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care, food processing, pulp and paper, mining, steel and other industries cause a downturn in the business of our customers, which in turn can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Item 1B