Item 1A of this
Form 10-K, entitled Risk Factors.

Item
1.  Business.

Item 1(a) General Development of Business.

Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924.  Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending
December 31.

During 2006, we continued to make business acquisitions to broaden our
product offerings and expand our geographic coverage, consistent with our “Circle
the Customer — Circle the Globe” strategy. 
These transactions included the following:

In June 2006, the Company acquired Shield Medicare Ltd., a developer,
manufacturer and marketer of contamination control products used in
pharmaceutical, medical device and hospital clean rooms.  Shield Medicare Ltd., located in the United
Kingdom, has annual sales of approximately $19,000,000 and became part of our International
operations beginning in the third quarter of 2006.

In September 2006, we acquired DuChem Industries, Inc.  DuChem manufactures and markets cleaning and
sanitizing products with a focus on the protein (meat and poultry) segment of
the food and beverage market.  Duchem is
located in Newnan, Georgia and has annual sales of approximately $10,000,000
and became part of our United States Cleaning & Sanitizing operations in
the third quarter of 2006.

In September 2006, we acquired Powles Hunt & Sons International
Ltd.’s commercial laundry business from Quill International Group.  Powles Hunt is a leading supplier of
professional laundry products in the United Kingdom with annual sales of
approximately $5,000,000 and became part of our International operations
beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006.

Additional details regarding certain of the above acquisition
transactions are found in Note 5 located on pages 34 and 35 of the Annual
Report, and incorporated into Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Item 1(b) Financial Information About Operating Segments.

The financial information about reportable segments appearing under the
heading “Operating Segments” in Note 16, located on pages 45 and 46 of the
Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.


 2 






 

Item 1(c) Narrative Description of Business.

General:  Ecolab develops and markets premium products
and services for the hospitality, foodservice, healthcare and industrial
markets.  We provide cleaning and
sanitizing products and programs, as well as pest elimination, maintenance and
repair services primarily to hotels and restaurants, healthcare and educational
facilities, quick-service (fast-food and other convenience store) units,
grocery stores, commercial and institutional laundries, light industry, dairy
plants and farms, food and beverage processors and the vehicle wash
industry.  A strong commitment to
customer support is a distinguishing characteristic of our business.  Additional information on our business
philosophy is found below under the heading “Additional Information —
Competition” of this Item 1(c).

The following description of our business is based upon our three
reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements.  However, we pursue a “Circle the Customer —
Circle the Globe” strategy by providing products, systems and services which
serve our customer base, and do so on a global basis to meet the needs of our
customers’ various operations around the world. 
Therefore, one customer may utilize the products or services of all
three of the segments and there is interdependence among the operating
segments.  Revenues of our International
segment include sales outside the United States by our Kay and Pest Elimination
businesses.

United States Cleaning
& Sanitizing Segment

The “United States Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment is comprised of
seven business units which provide cleaning and sanitizing products and
programs to United States markets.

Institutional:  Our
Institutional Division is our largest division and sells specialized cleaners
and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils
and kitchen equipment (“warewashing”), for on-premise laundries
(typically used by hotel and health care customers) and for general
housekeeping functions, as well as food safety products and equipment,
dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging,
educational and healthcare industries, and water filters to the foodservice
industry.  The Institutional Division
also provides pool and spa treatment programs for hospitality and other
commercial customers.  The Institutional
Division manufactures and markets various chemical dispensing device systems,
which are made available to customers, to dispense our cleaners and sanitizers.
In addition, the Institutional Division markets a lease program comprised of
energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and
sanitizers, including full machine maintenance.

We believe we are the leading supplier of chemical warewashing products
and programs to institutions in the United States.

The Institutional Division sells its products and programs primarily
through company-employed field sales and service personnel.  However, to a significant degree, we also
utilize independent, third-party foodservice distributors to market and sell
our products to smaller accounts or accounts which purchase through food
distributors.  We provide the same
customer support to accounts supplied by food distributors as to direct
customers.

Effective January 1, 2007, we integrated our former Professional
Products division into the Institutional Division to deliver a broad range of
cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers in hospitality,
health care and commercial facilities. 
The Institutional sales force along with a network of independent, third-party
distributors serving the commercial janitorial industry, market Professional
Products’ proprietary offerings (detergents, general purpose cleaners, carpet
care, stone care, furniture polishes, disinfectants, floor care products, hand
soaps and odor counteractants).

Kay:  Our Kay Division (which
consists of certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of Ecolab Inc.) supplies chemical
cleaning and sanitizing products primarily to national and regional
quick-service restaurant chains and to the food retail (i.e., grocery store)
industry.  Kay’s products include
specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers,
polishes, hand care products and 


 3 






 

assorted cleaning tools. 
Products are sold under the “Kay” brand or the customer’s private label.
In addition, Kay supports its product sales with employee training programs and
technical support designed to meet the special needs of its customers.  Kay’s customized cleaning and sanitation
programs are designed to reduce labor costs and product usage while increasing
sanitation levels, cleaning performance, equipment life and safety levels.

Kay employs a direct field sales force which primarily calls upon
national and regional quick-service restaurant, franchisee, and food retail
chain headquarters, although the sales are made to distributors who supply the
chain or franchisee’s units.

We believe that our Kay Division is the leading supplier of chemical
cleaning and sanitizing products to the traditional quick-service restaurant
industry in the United States.  While Kay’s
customer base has been growing, Kay’s business is largely dependent upon a
limited number of major quick-service restaurant chains and franchisees.  Kay continues to seek growth and
diversification opportunities.

Food & Beverage:  Our
Food & Beverage Division addresses cleaning and sanitation at the beginning
of the food chain to facilitate the production of products for human
consumption.  The Division provides
detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as
well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the
application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy farms,
breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food
processors.  The Food & Beverage
Division is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial products
used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during
processing in order to reduce microbial contamination on those surfaces.  The Division also designs, engineers and
installs CIP (“clean-in-place”) process control systems and
facility cleaning systems for its customer base.   Farm products are sold through dealers and
independent, third-party distributors, while plant products are sold primarily
by our field sales personnel.

We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and
sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm, food, meat and poultry, and
beverage/brewery processor industries in the United States.

Textile Care:
Our Textile Care Division provides chemical laundry products and proprietary
dispensing systems, as well as related programs, to large industrial and
commercial laundries.  Typically these
customers process a minimum of 1,000,000 pounds of linen each year and include
free-standing laundry plants used by institutions such as hotels, restaurants
and healthcare facilities as well as industrial and textile rental
laundries.  Products and programs include
laundry cleaning and specialty products and related dispensing equipment, which
are marketed primarily through a Company-employed sales force and, to a
lesser extent, through independent, third-party distributors. The Division’s
programs are designed to meet our customer’s need for exceptional cleaning,
while extending the useful life of linen and reducing the customer’s overall
operating cost.

Healthcare:  Our
Healthcare Division provides infection prevention and healthcare offerings to
hospital, acute care and long-term care markets in the United States.  Healthcare’s proprietary infection
prevention/healthcare products (skin care, disinfectants and instrument
cleaners) are sold primarily under the “Ecolab” and “Huntington” brand names.

Vehicle
Care:  Our Vehicle Care Division provides vehicle
appearance products which include soaps, polishes, sealants, wheel and tire
treatments and air fresheners.  Products
are sold to vehicle rental, fleet and consumer car wash and detail
operations.  Brand names utilized by the
Vehicle Care Division include Blue CoralÒ,
Black MagicÒ and Rain-XÒ.


 4 






 

Water Care Services: 
Water Care Services provides water and wastewater treatment products,
services and systems for commercial/institutional customers (full service
hotels, cruise ships, hospitals, healthcare, commercial real estate, government,
and commercial laundries), food and beverage customers (dairies, meat, poultry,
food processing and beverage) and other light industry. Water Care Services
works closely with our Institutional, Textile Care and Food & Beverage
Divisions to offer customized water care strategies to their accounts that have
water care needs, primarily to treat water used in heating and cooling systems
and manufacturing processes and to treat wastewater.

United States Other
Services Segment

The “United States Other Services” segment is comprised of two business
units:  Pest Elimination and GCS
Service.  In general, these businesses
provide service or equipment which can augment or extend our product offering
to our business customers as a part of our “Circle the Customer” approach.

Pest Elimination:  Our
Pest Elimination Division provides services for the detection, elimination and
prevention of pests to restaurants, food and beverage processors, educational
and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick-service restaurant and grocery operations
and other institutional and commercial customers.  These services are sold and performed by
Company-employed sales and service personnel.  In addition, through our EcoSure Food Safety
Management business, the Division provides customized on-site evaluations,
training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations.

GCS Service:  GCS
Service provides commercial cooking and refrigeration equipment repair and
maintenance services for restaurant and other foodservice operations.  Repair services are offered for in-warranty
repair, acting as the Manufacturer’s Authorized Service Agent, as well as after
warranty repair.  In addition, GCS
Service offers parts at a wholesale level to repair service companies and end
users.

International Segment

We conduct business in approximately 70 countries outside of the United
States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in the case of Israel, the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela, through joint ventures with local partners.  In other countries, selected products are
sold by our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although
the volume of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall
revenues.  Our largest International
operations are located in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Canada, with
smaller operations in Africa and the Middle East.

In general, the businesses conducted internationally are similar to
those conducted in the United States but are managed on a geographic
basis.  The businesses which are similar
to the United States’ Institutional and Food & Beverage businesses are the
largest businesses in our International operations.  They are conducted in virtually all our
International locations and, compared to the United States, constitute a larger
portion of the overall business.  Kay
also has sales in a number of International locations.  A significant portion of Kay’s international
sales are to international units of United States-based quick-service
restaurant chains. Consequently, a substantial portion of Kay’s international
sales are made either to domestic or internationally-located third-party
distributors who serve these chains.

Our Pest Elimination business continues to expand its geographic
coverage.  Since 2001, we have entered
markets in Brazil, Chile, the United Kingdom, Ireland, France and South Africa,
primarily through acquisitions.

Our other businesses are conducted less extensively in our
International locations.  However, in
general, most of the principal businesses conducted in the United States are operated
in Canada.

International businesses are subject to the usual risks of foreign
operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws,
tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and 


 5 






 

political conditions abroad.  The
profitability of our International operations has historically been lower than
the profitability of our businesses in the United States.  This has been due to the smaller scale of the
International operations as well as the additional cost of operating in numerous
and diverse foreign jurisdictions.

Additional
Information

Competition:  Our
business units have two significant classes of competitors.  First, each business unit competes with a
small number of large companies selling directly or through distributors on a
national or international scale.  Second,
all of our business units have numerous smaller regional or local competitors
which focus on more limited geographies, product lines and/or end-user
segments.

Our objective is to achieve a significant presence in each of our
business markets.  In general,
competition is based on customer support, product performance and price.  We believe we compete principally by
providing superior value, premium customer support and differentiated
products.  Value is provided by
state-of-the-art cleaning, sanitation and maintenance products and systems
coupled with high customer support standards and continuing dedication to
customer satisfaction.  This is made
possible, in part, by our significant on-going investment in training and
technology and by our standard practice of advising customers on means to lower
operating costs and helping them comply with safety, environmental and
sanitation regulations. In addition, we emphasize our ability to uniformly
provide a variety of related premium cleaning and sanitation programs to our
customers and to provide that level of customer support to multiple locations
of chain customer organizations worldwide. 
This approach is succinctly stated in our “Circle the Customer — Circle
the Globe” strategy which is discussed above in this Item 1(c) under the
heading “General.”

Sales and Service: Products, systems and services are
primarily marketed in domestic and international markets by Company-trained
sales and service personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the
proper and efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full
range of cleaning and sanitation needs. 
Independent, third-party distributors are utilized in several markets,
as described in the business unit descriptions found under the discussion of
the three reportable segments above.

Number of Employees:  We
have approximately 23,130 employees.

Customers and Classes of Products:  We
believe that our business is not materially dependent upon a single customer
although, as described above in this Item 1(c) under the description of the Kay
business, Kay is largely dependent upon a limited number of national and
international quick-service chains and franchisees.  Additionally, although we have a diverse
customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes ten percent or more of
our consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party
distributors, the loss of which could have a material negative effect on
results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider
it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our
financial position.  No material part of
our business is subject to renegotiation or termination at the election of a
governmental unit.  We sell two classes
of products which each constitute 10 percent or more of our sales.  Sales of warewashing products in 2006, 2005
and 2004 approximated 21, 21 and 22 percent, respectively, of our consolidated
net sales.  In addition, through our
Institutional and Textile Care businesses, we sell laundry products and provide
customer support to a broad range of laundry customers.  Sales of laundry products and services in
2006, 2005 and 2004 approximated 10, 11 and 10 percent, respectively, of our
consolidated net sales.

Patents and Trademarks:  We
own and license a number of patents, trademarks and other intellectual
property, including through a license agreement with Henkel KGaA.  While we have an active program to protect
our intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks, and pursuing
legal action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, we do not believe that
our overall business is materially dependent on any individual patent or
trademark.


 6 






 

Seasonality: 
Overall our business does not have a significant degree of
seasonality.  However, we do experience
variability in our quarterly operating results due to sales volume and business
mix fluctuations in our operating segments. 
Note 17, entitled “Quarterly Financial Data” located on page 47 of the
Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Working Capital:  We
have invested in the past, and will continue to invest in the future, in
merchandising equipment consisting primarily of systems used by customers to
dispense our cleaning and sanitizing products. 
Otherwise, we have no unusual working capital requirements.

Manufacturing and Distribution:  We
manufacture most of our products and related equipment in Company-owned
manufacturing facilities.  Some products
are also produced for us by third-party contract manufacturers, including
Henkel KGaA.  Other products and
equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers.  Additional information on product/equipment
sourcing is found in the segment discussions above and additional information
on our manufacturing facilities is located beginning at page 15 of this Form
10-K under the heading “Properties.”

Deliveries to customers are made from our manufacturing plants and a
network of distribution centers and public warehouses.  We use common carriers, our own delivery
vehicles, and distributors.  Additional
information on our plant and distribution facilities is located beginning at
page 15 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Properties.”

Raw Materials:  Raw
materials purchased for use in manufacturing our products are inorganic
chemicals, including phosphates, silicates, alkalis, salts and organic
chemicals, including surfactants and solvents. These materials are generally
purchased on an annual contract basis from a diverse group of chemical
manufacturers.  When practical, global
sourcing is used so that purchasing or production locations can be shifted to
control product costs at globally competitive levels. Pesticides used by our
Pest Elimination Division are purchased as finished products under contract or
purchase order from the producers or their distributors.  We also purchase packaging materials for our
manufactured products and components for our specialized cleaning equipment and
systems.  Most raw materials, or
substitutes for those materials, used by us, with the exception of a few
specialized chemicals which we manufacture, are available from several
suppliers.

Research and Development:  Our
research and development program consists principally of devising and testing
new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the efficiency of
existing ones, improving service program content, and evaluating the
environmental compatibility of products. 
Key disciplines include analytical and formulation chemistry,
microbiology, process and packaging engineering and product dispensing
technology.  Substantially all of our
principal products have been developed by our research, development and
engineering personnel.  At times,
technology has also been licensed from third parties to develop offerings.  Note 13, entitled “Research Expenditures”
located on page 40 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Environmental and Regulatory Considerations:  Our
businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and regulations
relating to the protection of the environment and public health.  While we cooperate with governmental
authorities and take commercially practicable measures to meet regulatory
requirements and avoid or limit environmental effects, some risks are inherent
in our businesses.  Among the risks are
costs associated with transporting and managing hazardous substances, waste
disposal and plant site clean-up, fines and penalties if we are found to
be in violation of law, as well as modifications, disruptions or
discontinuation of certain operations or types of operations including product
recalls.  Additionally, although we are
not currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no assurance that
future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
flows.  Environmental and regulatory
matters most significant to us are discussed below.


 7 






 

Ingredient
Legislation:  Various laws and regulations have been enacted
by state, local and foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of products
which contain phosphorous, volatile organic compounds, or other ingredients
that may impact human health or the environment. Under California Proposition
65, label disclosures are required for certain products containing chemicals
listed by California.  To date, we
generally have been able to comply with such legislative requirements by
reformulation or labeling modifications. 
Such legislation has not had a material negative effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows to date.

Pesticide
Legislation:  Various international, federal and state
environmental laws and regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of
pesticides.  We manufacture and sell
certain disinfecting and sanitizing products which kill or reduce
microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on hard environmental surfaces and on
certain food products. Such products constitute “pesticides” or “antimicrobial
pesticides” under the current definitions of the Federal Insecticide Fungicide
and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), as amended by the Food Quality Protection Act of
1996, the principal federal statute governing the manufacture, labeling,
handling and use of pesticides.  We
maintain approximately 400 product registrations with the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (“EPA”).  Registration
entails the necessity to meet certain efficacy, toxicity and labeling
requirements and to pay on-going registration fees.  In addition, each state in which these
products are sold requires registration and payment of a fee. In general, the
states impose no substantive requirements different from those required by
FIFRA.  However, California and certain
other states have adopted additional regulatory programs, and California
imposes a tax on total pesticide sales in that State.  While the cost of complying with rules as to
pesticides has not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
operations, financial condition, or cash flows to date, the costs and delays in
receiving necessary approvals for these products continue to increase.  Total fees paid to the EPA and the states to
obtain or maintain pesticide registrations, and for the California tax, were
approximately $3,400,000 in 2006 and $2,900,000 in 2005.  In Europe, the Biocidal Product Directive
(98/8/EC) is establishing a program to evaluate and authorize marketing of
biocidal active substances and products. 
The Biocidal Product Directive requirements are transitioning into effect.  In September 2006, certain biocidal active
substances not notified to the European Chemicals Bureau were required to be
withdrawn from the market.  We are
working with suppliers and industry groups to manage requirements associated
with the Biocidal Products Directive. 
Anticipated registration costs are not expected to significantly affect
our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

In addition, our Pest Elimination Division applies restricted-use
pesticides which it generally purchases from third parties.  That Division must comply with certain
standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the licensing of
employees who apply such pesticides. 
Such regulations are enforced primarily by the states or local jurisdictions
in conformity with federal regulations. 
We have not experienced material difficulties in complying with these
requirements.

FDA
Antimicrobial Product Requirements:  Various laws and regulations
have been enacted by federal, state, local and foreign jurisdictions regulating
certain products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth
on humans, animals, foods, and medical devices. 
In the United States, these requirements generally are administered by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). 
However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and EPA also may share in
regulatory jurisdiction of antimicrobials applied to food.  The FDA also has been expanding requirements
applicable to such products, including proposing regulations in a Tentative
Final Monograph for Healthcare Antiseptic Drug Products dated June 17, 1994
that may impose additional requirements associated with antimicrobial hand care
products and associated costs when finalized by the FDA.  To date, such 


 8 






 

requirements
have not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
operations, financial position or cash flows.

Europe:  The
European Union is developing a new regulatory framework for the Registration,
Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH).  The European Parliament and Council adopted
the REACH regulation in December 2006, and it will enter into force in June
2007.  REACH will establish a new
European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki, Finland. 
The Agency would be responsible for evaluating data to determine hazards
and risks and to manage this program for authorizing chemicals for sale and
distribution in Europe.  All “new” and “existing”
chemicals produced or imported into the European Union in quantities above one
ton per year must be registered in a central database.  For chemicals deemed to be of most concern,
industry must gain specific authorization for particular uses which have been
demonstrated to be safe.  Other uses
would be prohibited.  To manage this new
program, we are simplifying our product line and working with chemical
suppliers to comply with registration requirements.  The eventual impact of REACH will also be
felt by our competitors.  Potential costs
to us are not yet fully quantifiable.

Other
Environmental Legislation:  Our manufacturing plants are
subject to federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations
relating to discharge of hazardous substances into the environment and to the
transportation, handling and disposal of such substances.  The primary federal statutes that apply to
our activities are the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”). 
We are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act
of 1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to emissions of
hazardous substances into the air, land and water.  We make capital investments and expenditures
to comply with environmental laws and regulations, to ensure employee safety
and to carry out its announced environmental stewardship principles.  To date, such expenditures have not had a
significant adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.  Our capital
expenditures for environmental health and safety projects world-wide were approximately
$6,410,000 in 2006 and $4,230,000 in 2005. 
Approximately $9,370,000 has been budgeted globally for projects in
2007.

Environmental
Remediation and Proceedings:  Along with numerous other
potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”), we are currently involved with waste
disposal site clean-up activities imposed by the federal Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or state
equivalents at 22 sites in the United States. 
Additionally, we have similar liability at eight sites outside the
United States.  In general, under CERCLA,
we and each other PRP which actually contributes hazardous substances to a
Superfund site are jointly and severally liable for the costs associated with
cleaning up the site.  Customarily, the
PRPs will work with the EPA to agree and implement a plan for site
remediation.  Pursuant to an
Environmental Agreement dated December 7, 2000 with Henkel KGaA, Henkel agreed
to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities associated with the parties’
former joint venture in Europe. 
Reimbursement from Henkel has been requested for 647,924 euro (or
approximately $855,000) spent for such environmental liabilities prior to
December 31, 2006.

Based
on an analysis of our experience with such environmental proceedings, our
estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the sites referred to
in the preceding paragraph, and our estimate of the contribution to be made by
other PRPs which we believe have the financial ability to pay their shares, we
have accrued our best estimate of our probable future costs relating to such
known sites.  Unasserted claims are not
reflected in the accrual.  In
establishing accruals, potential insurance reimbursements are not
included.  The accrual is not discounted.  It is not feasible to predict when the
amounts accrued will be paid due to the uncertainties inherent in the
environmental remediation and associated regulatory processes.


 9 






 

Our
worldwide net expenditures for contamination remediation were approximately
$950,000 in 2006 and $1,240,000 in 2005. 
Including the ChemLawn matters described below, our worldwide accruals
at December 31, 2006 for probable future remediation expenditures totaled
approximately $4,900,000.  We review our
exposure for contamination remediation costs periodically and our accruals are
adjusted as considered appropriate. While the final resolution of these issues
could result in costs below or above current accruals and, therefore, have an
impact on our consolidated financial results in a future reporting period, we
believe the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material
effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or
liquidity.  In addition, we have retained
responsibility for certain sites where our former ChemLawn business is a
PRP.  Currently there are five such
locations and, at each, ChemLawn is a de minimis
party.  Anticipated costs currently
accrued for these matters were included in our loss from our discontinued
ChemLawn operations in 1991.  The accrual
remaining reflects our best estimate of probable future costs.

Item 1(d) Financial
Information About Geographic Areas.

The financial information about geographic areas appearing under the
heading “Operating Segments” in Note 16, located on pages 45 and 46 of the
Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 1(e) Available
Information.

Our Internet address is www.ecolab.com. 
Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are
available free of charge on our website at www.ecolab.com/investor as soon as
reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

In addition, the following governance materials are available on our
website at www.ecolab.com/investor/governance and the same information is
available in print to any requesting persons, free of charge, by writing to the
Corporate Secretary at our headquarters address, or by submitting an e-mail
request to investor.info@ecolab.com: 
(i)  charters of the Audit,
Compensation, Finance and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors; (ii)
our Board’s Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) our Code of Conduct and
Code of Ethics for Senior Officers and Finance Associates.

Executive Officers of the Company

The persons listed in the following table are our current executive
officers.  Officers are elected
annually.  There is no family relation­ship
among any of the directors or executive officers, and no executive officer has
been involved during the past five years in any legal proceedings described in
applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.


 10 






 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Office
  
  
   
  
  
  Positions Held Since
  Jan. 1, 2002
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Douglas M. Baker, Jr.
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
  Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  May 2006 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  President and Chief Executive Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Jul. 2004 - Apr. 2006
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  President and Chief Operating Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Aug. 2002 - Jun. 2004
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  President —
  Institutional Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Mar. 2002 - Jul. 2002
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Institutional Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2002 - Feb. 2002
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Lawrence T. Bell
  
  
   
  
  
  59
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
  
  
   
  
  
  Jul. 2002 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Law and General Counsel
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2002 - Jun. 2002
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Steven L. Fritze
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Feb. 2004 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Mar. 2002 - Jan. 2004
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Finance and Controller
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2002 - Feb. 2002
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Robert K. Gifford
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Global
  Supply Chain
  
  
   
  
  
  Oct. 2005 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President — Supply Chain
  Management
  
  
   
  
  
  Sep. 2004 - Sep. 2005(1)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Thomas W. Handley
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President-Specialty
  Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Strategic Planning
  
  
   
  
  
  Aug. 2003 - Dec. 2003(2)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Michael A. Hickey
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Global
  Business Development
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2006 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Global
  / Corporate Accounts
  
  
   
  
  
  Nov. 2005 - Dec. 2005
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President —
  Global/Corporate Accounts, Institutional Division
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2002 - Oct. 2005
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Diana D. Lewis
  
  
   
  
  
  60
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Human Resources
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2002 - Present
  
  
   
  
 


 


 11 






 


 
  
  Phillip J. Mason
  
  
   
  
  
  56
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President — Asia Pacific and Latin
  America
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2004 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Strategic Business
  Development
  
  
   
  
  
  May 2004 - Nov. 2004(3)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  James A. Miller
  
  
   
  
  
  50
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President — Institutional Sector North
  America
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and General Manager — Institutional
  
  
   
  
  
  Sept. 2002 - Dec. 2003
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Institutional Vice President-Marketing North America
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2002 - Aug. 2002
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Susan K. Nestegard
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-Research, Development and Engineering and Chief Technical Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2004 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President-Research,
  Development and Engineering and Chief Technical Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Mar. 2003 - Nov. 2004(4)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Daniel J. Schmechel
  
  
   
  
  
  47
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President and Controller
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2005 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and Controller
  
  
   
  
  
  Apr. 2002 - Nov. 2005
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and Treasurer
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2002 - Mar. 2002
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  C. William Snedeker
  
  
   
  
  
  61
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President — Global Services Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Mar. 2006 - Present
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President — Global Pest Elimination
  
  
   
  
  
  May 2003 - Feb. 2006
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and General Manager — Pest
  Elimination
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2002 - Apr. 2003
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Robert P. Tabb
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President
  and Chief Information Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Sep. 2003 - Present(5)
  
  
   
  
 




1.               Prior to joining Ecolab in September 2004, Mr.
Gifford served as Vice President, World Logistics and Program Manager of
Hewlett Packard Corporation for three years. 
Prior to Hewlett Packard, Mr. Gifford was employed by Compaq and Tandem.

2.               Prior to joining Ecolab in August 2003, Mr.
Handley was employed by the Procter & Gamble Company for 22 years in
various management, marketing and executive positions including assignments in
Japan and Mexico.  Mr. Handley’s last
position at P&G was Vice President - Feminine Care Strategic Planning.

3.               Mr. Mason re-joined Ecolab in May 2004, where
he formerly served 23 years in various management and executive positions, most
recently as Vice President — Asia Pacific. 
Prior to re-joining Ecolab, Mr. Mason was employed by HAVI Group, LP,
serving as President, HPR Partners from 1997-2004.

4.               Prior to joining Ecolab in March 2003, Ms.
Nestegard was employed by 3M Company for 20 years, most recently as Business
Director of Optical Components.  Ms.
Nestegard’s experience includes product and process development and technical
management as Director Engineering Systems Technology Center and as Technical
Director of the Electronic Products Division of 3M in Austin, Texas.

5.               Prior to joining Ecolab in September 2003, Mr.
Tabb held various executive positions in the systems technology industry, most
recently with Focus IT Group, a consulting firm.  From 1997 — 2000 Mr. Tabb was employed by CNF
Transportation, Inc. as Vice President and Chief Information Officer.  From 2000 — 2001 Mr. Tabb served as Vice
President, Global Information Technology at Nike, Inc.


 12










 

Item
1A. Risk Factors.

The following are important
factors which could affect our financial performance and could cause our actual
results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or
other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements
made in this Form 10-K.  See the section
entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 2 of this Form 10-K.

We may also refer to this
disclosure to identify factors that may cause results to differ from those
expressed in other forward-looking statements made in oral presentations,
including telephone conference and/or webcasts open to the public.

Except as may be required
under applicable law, we undertake no duty to update our Forward-Looking
Statements.

Our results depend upon the
continued vitality of the markets we serve: 
Economic
downturns, and in particular downturns in the foodservice, hospitality, travel,
health care and food processing industries, can adversely impact our end-users
who are sensitive to changes in travel and dining activities.  During such downturns, these end-users
typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning, hygiene and appearance
products, which would likely in turn have an adverse impact on our consolidated
results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.

Our growth depends upon our
ability to successfully compete with respect to value, product offerings and
customer support:  Our competitive market is made up of numerous
national, regional and local competitors. 
Our ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain a
superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and
commercialize innovative, high value-added products for niche
applications.  There can be no assurance
that we will be able to accomplish this or that technological developments by
our competitors will not place certain of our products at a competitive
disadvantage in the future.  In addition,
certain of the new products that we have under development will be offered in
markets in which we do not currently compete, and there can be no assurance
that we will be able to compete successfully in those new markets.  If we fail to timely introduce new
technologies, we may lose market share and our consolidated results of operations,
financial condition, or cash flows could be adversely affected.

We enter into multi-year contracts with customers
that can impact our results. 
We enter into multi-year
contracts with some of our customers which include terms affecting our pricing
flexibility.  There can be no assurance
that these restraints will not have an adverse impact on our margins and
operating income.

Consolidation of our customer and
vendors can affect our results:  Customers and vendors in the foodservice,
hospitality and lodging industry have been consolidating in recent years and
that trend may continue.  This
consolidation could have an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers
and on our margins and operating income.

Our results can be adversely
affected by fluctuations in the cost of raw materials:  The
prices of raw materials used in our business can fluctuate significantly from
time to time, and have increased in recent years.  Changes in oil or raw material prices,
unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw materials or substitutes
for those raw materials, or the inability to obtain or renew supply agreements
on favorable terms can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.


 13 






 

If we are unsuccessful
in integrating acquisitions, our business could be adversely affected: As part of our long-term strategy, we seek
to acquire complementary businesses. 
There can be no assurance that we will find attractive acquisition
candidates or succeed at effectively managing the integration of acquired
businesses into existing businesses.  If
the expected synergies from such transactions do not materialize or we fail to
successfully integrate new businesses into our existing businesses, our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be
adversely affected.

Our business depends on our
ability to comply with governmental regulations:  Our
business is subject to numerous regulations relating to the environment and to
the manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and use of our products.  Compliance with these regulations, as well as
changes in tax, fiscal, governmental and other regulatory policies expose us to
potential financial liability and increase our operating costs.  Regulation of our products and operations
continues to increase with more stringent standards, causing increased costs of
operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs.  The potential cost to us relating to environmental
and product registration laws and regulations is uncertain due to factors such
as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs,
the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and
expense of compliance.  In addition,
changes in accounting standards, including the adoption effective January 1,
2007 of FASB Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,
an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,” could increase the volatility of
our quarterly tax rate.

Our results are impacted by
general worldwide economic factors:  Economic factors such as the
worldwide economy, interest rates and currency movements including, in
particular, our exposure to foreign currency risk have affected our business in
the past and may have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
operations, financial condition, or cash flows in the future.

Extraordinary events may
significantly impact our business:  The occurrence of (a)
litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or
distributor, (c) war (including acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact
our markets), (d) natural or manmade disasters, or (e) severe weather
conditions or public health epidemics affecting the foodservice, hospitality
and travel industries may have a significant, adverse impact on our business.

Defense of litigation,
particularly certain types of actions such as antitrust, patent infringement
and class action lawsuits, can be costly and time consuming even if ultimately
successful, and if not successful could have a material adverse impact on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

While we have a diverse
customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes ten percent or more of
our consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party
distributors, the loss of which could have a material negative effect on our
consolidated results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however,
we consider it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact
on our financial position.

War (including acts of
terrorism or hostilities), natural or manmade disasters or severe weather
conditions or public health epidemics affecting the foodservice, hospitality
and travel industries cause a downturn in the business of restaurants, motels
and hotels and other of our customers, which in turn can have a material
adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.


 14 






 

We depend on key personnel to
lead our business:  Our continued success will largely depend on
our ability to attract and retain a high caliber of talent and on the efforts
and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees.  Our operations could be adversely affected if
for any reason such officers or key employees did not remain with us.

Item 1B