Item 1A of this Form 10-K, entitled Risk
Factors.

 

Item
1.  Business.

 

Item 1(a) General Development of Business.

 

Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware
corporation in 1924.  Our fiscal year is
the calendar  year ending December 31.

 

During 2008, we continued to invest in our
business to build for the future.

 

In December 2007, subsequent to our
year-end for international operations, we purchased the Irish dairy hygiene
business of Novartis Animal Health Ireland Ltd. 
The business, which has annual sales of approximately $3 million, became
part of our International operations during the first quarter of 2008.

 

In February 2008, we acquired Ecovation, Inc.,
a Rochester, N.Y. area-based provider of renewable energy solutions and
effluent management systems primarily for the food and beverage manufacturing
industry in the U.S., including dairy, beverage and meat and poultry
producers.  2007 sales were approximately
$50 million.    Ecovation became part of
our U.S. Cleaning & Sanitizing operations during the first quarter of
2008.

 

Following the Ecovation acquisition, we
combined our Water Care Services and Ecovation businesses into our Food &
Beverage division.

 

We continued to make investments in Europe,
including the establishment of our European headquarters in Zurich,
Switzerland.

 

In November 2008, our then largest
shareholder, Henkel AG & Co. KGaA (“Henkel”), completed the sale of
all of the 72.7 million Ecolab shares it held. 
We repurchased 11.3 million shares directly from Henkel for $300
million, reducing our shares outstanding by approximately 4%.

 

Item 1(b) Financial Information About Operating Segments.

 

The
financial information about reportable segments appearing under the heading “Operating
Segments” in Note 16, located on pages 49 and 50 of the Annual Report, is
incorporated herein by reference.

 

2












Table
of Contents

 

Item 1(c) Narrative Description of Business.

 

General: Ecolab develops and markets premium products
and services for the hospitality, foodservice, health care and industrial
markets. We provide cleaning and sanitizing products and programs, as well as
pest elimination, maintenance and repair services primarily to hotels and
restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, quick service (fast-food
and convenience store) units, grocery stores, commercial and institutional
laundries, light industry, dairy plants and farms, food and beverage processors
and the vehicle wash industry. A strong commitment to customer support and
sustainable solutions is a distinguishing characteristic of our business.  Additional information on our business
philosophy is found below under the heading “Additional Information —
Competition” of this Item 1(c).

 

The
following description of our business is based upon our three reportable
segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements.  However, we pursue a “Circle the Customer —
Circle the Globe” strategy by providing products, systems and services which
serve our customer base, and do so on a global basis to meet the needs of our
customers’ various operations around the world. 
Therefore, one customer may utilize the products or services of all
three of the segments and there is interdependence among the operating
segments.

 

United States Cleaning & Sanitizing Segment

 

The
“United States Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment is comprised of six
business units which provide cleaning and sanitizing products and programs to
United States markets.

 

Institutional: The Institutional Division is our largest division and sells
specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware,
foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment (“warewashing”), for on-premise
laundries (typically used by hotel and healthcare customers) and for general
housekeeping functions, as well as food safety products and equipment,
dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging,
educational and healthcare industries, and water filters to the foodservice
industry. The Institutional Division also provides pool and spa treatment
programs for hospitality and other commercial customers, as well as a broad
range of janitorial cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers
in hospitality, health care and commercial facilities. The Institutional
Division manufactures and markets various chemical dispensing device systems,
which are made available to customers, to dispense our cleaners and sanitizers.
In addition, the Institutional Division markets a lease program comprised of
energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and
sanitizers, including full machine maintenance.

 

We
believe that we are the leading supplier of chemical warewashing products and
programs to institutions in the United States.

 

The
Institutional Division sells its products and programs primarily through
company-employed field sales personnel. However, to a significant degree, we
also utilize independent, third-party foodservice distributors to market and
sell our products to smaller accounts or accounts which purchase through
distributors. We provide the same customer support to accounts supplied by food
distributors as to direct customers.

 

Food & Beverage: Our Food & Beverage Division addresses cleaning and
sanitation at the beginning of the food chain to facilitate the processing of
products for human consumption. The Division provides detergents, cleaners,
sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as well as cleaning systems,
electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical
products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink
bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food processors. The Food &
Beverage Division is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial
products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during
processing in order to reduce microbial contamination. The Food &
Beverage Division also designs, engineers and installs CIP (“clean-in-place”)
process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base.
Farm products are sold through dealers and independent, third-party
distributors, while plant products are sold primarily by our field sales
personnel. The Food & Beverage Division also offers water care
programs primarily to treat water used for heating and cooling systems and
manufacturing processes. In addition, through its Ecovation business, the Food &
Beverage Division offers customized wastewater treatment solutions that also
can generate energy.

 

3












Table
of Contents

 

We believe that we are one of the leading
suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm,
food, meat and poultry, and beverage/brewery processor industries in the United
States.

 

Kay: Our
Kay Division (which consists of certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of Ecolab
Inc.) supplies chemical cleaning and sanitizing products primarily to national
and regional quick service restaurant chains. 
Kay’s products include specialty and general purpose hard surface
cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted
cleaning tools.  Products are sold under
the “Kay” brand or the customer’s private label. In addition, Kay supports its
product sales with employee training programs and technical support designed to
meet the special needs of its customers. Kay’s customized cleaning and
sanitation programs are designed to reduce labor costs and product usage while
increasing sanitation levels, cleaning performance, equipment life and safety
levels.

 

Kay
employs a direct field sales force which primarily calls upon national and
regional quick service restaurants and franchisees, although the sales are made
to distributors who supply the chain or franchisee’s units.

 

We
believe that our Kay Division is the leading supplier of chemical cleaning and
sanitizing products to the traditional quick service restaurant industry in the
United States. While Kay’s customer base has been growing, Kay’s business is
largely dependent upon a limited number of major quick service restaurant
chains and franchisees.

 

In
addition, through Kay’s Food Retail business, the Division supplies cleaning
and sanitizing products to the food retail (i.e., grocery store) industry. Food
Retail products are sold primarily through distributors and include specialty
and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes,
hand care products, assorted cleaning tools and floor care products. We provide
the same customer support to accounts supplied by distributors as to direct
customers.

 

Healthcare: Our Healthcare Division provides infection
prevention and other healthcare related offerings to acute care hospitals,
surgery centers, dental offices and veterinary clinics.  The Healthcare Division’s proprietary
infection prevention products (hand hygiene, hard surface disinfectants,
instrument cleaners, patient drapes, fluid control and equipment drapes) are
sold primarily under the “Ecolab” and “Microtek” brand names to various
departments within the acute care environment (Infection Control, Environmental
Services, Central Sterile and Operating Room). 
Microtek Medical, acquired in November 2007, is a leader in niche
branded specialty surgical drapes and fluid control products.  The Healthcare Division sells its products
and programs primarily through company-employed field sales personnel but also
sells through healthcare distributors.

 

Textile Care:
Our Textile Care Division provides
chemical laundry products and proprietary dispensing systems, as well as
related programs, to large industrial and commercial laundries.  Typically these customers include
free-standing laundry plants used by institutions such as hotels, restaurants
and healthcare facilities as well as industrial and textile rental laundries.
Products and programs include laundry cleaning and specialty products, related
dispensing equipment, plus water and energy management which are marketed
primarily through company-employed field sales personnel and, to a lesser
extent, through independent, third-party distributors. The Textile Care
Division’s programs are designed to meet our customers’ need for exceptional
cleaning, while extending the useful life of linen and reducing the customer’s
overall operating cost.

 

Vehicle Care: Our Vehicle Care Division provides vehicle
appearance products which include soaps, polishes, sealants, wheel and tire
treatments and air fresheners. Products are sold to vehicle rental, fleet and
consumer car wash and detail operations. Brand names utilized by the Vehicle
Care Division include Blue CoralÒ, Black MagicÒ and
Rain-XÒ.

 

United States Other Services Segment

 

The
“United States Other Services” segment is comprised of two business units:  Pest Elimination and GCS Service. In general,
these businesses provide service or equipment which can augment or extend our
product offering to our business customers as a part of our “Circle the
Customer” approach.

 

4












Table
of Contents

 

Pest Elimination: Our Pest Elimination Division provides services designed to detect,
eliminate and prevent pests in restaurants, food and beverage processors,
educational and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick service restaurant and
grocery operations and other institutional and commercial customers. These
services are sold and performed by company-employed field sales and service
personnel. In addition, through our EcoSure Food Safety Management business, we
provide customized on-site evaluations, training and quality assurance services
to foodservice operations.

 

GCS Service:
GCS Service provides equipment repair and maintenance services for the
commercial food service industry. Repair services are offered for in-warranty
repair, acting as the Manufacturer’s Authorized Service Agent, as well as after
warranty repair. In addition, GCS Service operates as a parts distributor to
repair service companies and end users.

 

International Segment

 

We conduct business in approximately 70
countries outside of the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in
the case of Israel and Venezuela, through joint ventures with local partners.
In other countries, selected products are sold by our export operations to
distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume of those sales is not
significant in terms of our overall revenues. Our largest International
operations are located in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Canada, with
smaller operations in Africa and the Middle East.

 

In
general, the businesses conducted internationally are similar to those
conducted in the United States but are managed on a geographic basis. The
businesses which are similar to the United States’ Institutional and Food &
Beverage businesses are the largest businesses in our International operations.
They are conducted in virtually all our International locations and, compared
to the United States, constitute a larger portion of the overall business.
Healthcare and Textile Care are also significant businesses in our
International operations, particularly in Europe. Kay also has sales in a
number of International locations. A significant portion of Kay’s international
sales are to international units of United States-based quick service
restaurant chains. Consequently, a substantial portion of Kay’s international
sales are made either to domestic or internationally-located third-party
distributors who serve these chains.

 

Our
Pest Elimination business continues to expand its geographic coverage. Since
2001, we have entered markets in Asia, Western Europe, Latin America and South
Africa, with the largest operations in France and the United Kingdom.

 

Our
other businesses are conducted less extensively in our International locations.
However, in general, most of the principal businesses conducted in the United
States are also operated in Canada.

 

International
businesses are subject to the usual risks of foreign operations, including
possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, tax laws, currency
exchange rates and economic and political conditions abroad. The profitability
of our International operations has historically been lower than the
profitability of our businesses in the United States. This has been due to the
smaller scale of the International operations as well as the additional cost of
operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions.

 

Additional
Information

 

Competition:
Our business units have two significant classes of competitors. First, each
business unit competes with a small number of large companies selling directly
or through distributors on a national or international scale. Second, all of
our business units have numerous smaller regional or local competitors which
focus on more limited geographies, product lines and/or end-user segments.

 

Our objective is to achieve a significant
presence in each of our business markets. In general, competition is based on
customer support, product performance and price. We believe we compete
principally by providing superior value, premium customer support and
differentiated products to help our customers protect their brand reputation.
Value is provided by state-of-the-art cleaning, sanitation and maintenance
products and systems coupled with high customer support standards and
continuing 

 

5












Table
of Contents

 

dedication to customer satisfaction. This is
made possible, in part, by our significant on-going investment in training and
technology and by our standard practice of advising customers on ways to lower
operating costs and helping them comply with safety, environmental and
sanitation regulations. In addition to our consultative approach, we emphasize
our ability to uniformly provide a variety of related premium cleaning and sanitation
programs to our customers and to provide that level of customer support to
multiple locations of chain customer organizations worldwide. This approach is
succinctly stated in our “Circle the Customer - Circle the Globe” strategy
which is discussed above in this Item 1(c) under the heading “General.”

 

Sales: Products, systems and services are
primarily marketed in domestic and international markets by company-trained
field sales personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the proper
and efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full range of
cleaning and sanitation needs. Independent, third-party distributors are
utilized in several markets, as described in the business unit descriptions
found under the discussion of the three reportable segments above.

 

Number of Employees: We had approximately 26,500 employees as of
December 31, 2008.

 

Customers and Classes of Products: We believe that our business is not
materially dependent upon a single customer although, as described above in
this Item 1(c) under the description of the Kay business, Kay is largely
dependent upon a limited number of national and international quick service
chains and franchisees. Additionally, although we have a diverse customer base
and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our
consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party
distributors, the loss of which could have a material negative effect on
results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider
it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our
financial position. No material part of our business is subject to
renegotiation or termination at the election of a governmental unit. We sell
two classes of products which each constitute 10 percent or more of our sales.
Sales of warewashing products in 2008, 2007 and 2006 approximated 21, 22 and 21
percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. In addition, through our
Institutional and Textile Care businesses, we sell laundry products and provide
customer support to a broad range of laundry customers. Sales of laundry
products and services in 2008, 2007 and 2006 approximated 11, 10 and 10
percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales.

 

Patents and Trademarks: We own and license a number of patents,
trademarks and other intellectual property, including through a license
agreement with Henkel AG & Co. KGaA. While we have an active program
to protect our intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks, and
pursuing legal action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, we do not
believe that our overall business is materially dependent on any individual
patent or trademark.

 

Seasonality:
Overall our business does not have a significant degree of seasonality.
However, we do experience variability in our quarterly operating results due to
sales volume and business mix fluctuations in our operating segments. Note 17,
entitled “Quarterly Financial Data” located on page 51 of the Annual
Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

 

Working Capital: We have invested in the past, and will continue to invest in the
future, in merchandising equipment consisting primarily of systems used by
customers to dispense our cleaning and sanitizing products. Otherwise, we have
no unusual working capital requirements.

 

Manufacturing and Distribution: We manufacture most of our products and
related equipment in Company-owned manufacturing facilities. Some products are
also produced for us by third-party contract manufacturers. Other products and
equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers. Additional information on
product/equipment sourcing is found in the segment discussions above and
additional information on our manufacturing facilities is located beginning at page 15
of this Form 10-K under the heading “Properties.”

 

Deliveries
to customers are made from our manufacturing plants and a network of
distribution centers and public warehouses. We use common carriers, our own
delivery vehicles, and distributors. Additional information on our plant and
distribution facilities is located beginning at page 15 of this Form 10-K
under the heading “Properties.”

 

6












Table of Contents

 

Raw Materials: Raw materials purchased for use in manufacturing our products are
inorganic chemicals, including alkalis, acids, phosphates, silicates and salts,
and organic chemicals, including surfactants and solvents. These materials are
generally purchased on an annual contract basis from a diverse group of
chemical manufacturers. When practical, global sourcing is used so that
purchasing or production locations can be shifted to control product costs at
globally competitive levels. Pesticides used by our Pest Elimination Division
are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order from the
producers or their distributors. We also purchase packaging materials for our
manufactured products and components for our specialized cleaning equipment and
systems. Most raw materials, or substitutes for those materials, used by us,
with the exception of a few specialized chemicals which we manufacture, are
available from several suppliers.

 

Research and Development: Our research and development program consists principally of devising
and testing new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the
efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, and evaluating
the environmental compatibility of products. Key disciplines include analytical
and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process and packaging engineering and
product dispensing technology. Substantially all of our principal products have
been developed by our research, development and engineering personnel. At
times, technology has also been licensed from third parties to develop
offerings. Note 13, entitled “Research Expenditures” located on page 44 of
the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

 

Environmental and Regulatory Considerations: Our businesses are subject to various
legislative enactments and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment and public health. While we cooperate with governmental authorities
and take commercially practicable measures to meet regulatory requirements and
avoid or limit environmental effects, some risks are inherent in our
businesses. Among the risks are costs associated with transporting and managing
hazardous substances, waste disposal and plant site clean-up, fines and penalties
if we are found to be in violation of law, as well as modifications,
disruptions or discontinuation of certain operations or types of operations
including product recalls and reformulations. Additionally, although we are not
currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no assurance that
future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
flows. Environmental and regulatory matters most significant to us are
discussed below.

 

Ingredient Legislation: Various laws and regulations have been enacted by state, local and
foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of products which contain
phosphorous, volatile organic compounds, or other ingredients that may impact
human health or the environment. Under California Proposition 65, label
disclosures are required for certain products containing chemicals listed by
California. “Green” chemistry initiatives that promote pollution prevention
through research and development of safer chemicals and safer chemical
processes are being advanced by certain states, including California, Maine,
Massachusetts and Vermont.  In 2009,
green chemistry and ingredient disclosure legislation may be introduced at the
federal level.  To date, we generally
have been able to comply with such legislative requirements by reformulation or
labeling modifications. Such legislation has not had a material negative effect
on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows to
date.

 

Re-authorization
of the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) and a re-set of the TSCA Inventory
are being discussed in the U.S. Congress. 
Ecolab anticipates that compliance with new requirements could be
similar to the costs associated with the Registration, Evaluation and
Authorization of Chemicals regulation recently adopted in the European Union,
which is discussed below.

 

REACH:
The European Union has developed a new regulatory framework for the
Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”). It
established a new European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki, Finland, which is
responsible for evaluating data to determine hazards and risks and to manage
this program for authorizing chemicals for sale and distribution in Europe.
Under REACH, all “new” and “existing” chemicals produced or imported into the
European Union in quantities above one ton per year must be 

 

7












Table
of Contents

 

registered
in a central database. Ecolab has met the pre-registration requirements of
REACH, and is on track to meet the upcoming deadlines and requirements in 2009
and beyond.  To help manage this new
program, Ecolab is simplifying its product line and working with chemical
suppliers to comply with registration requirements. For chemicals deemed to be
of most concern, industry must gain specific authorization for particular uses
which have been demonstrated to be safe. Ecolab has minimized use of these
chemicals which are designated as “chemicals of high concern.”  The impact of REACH will also be felt by our
competitors. Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but are not
expected to significantly affect our consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.

 

GHS:  In 2003, the United Nations issued a standard on hazard communication
and labeling of chemical products known as the Globally Harmonized System of
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (“GHS”). GHS is designed to facilitate
international trade and increase safe handling and use of hazardous chemicals
through a worldwide system that classifies chemicals based on their intrinsic
hazards and communicates information about those hazards through standardized
safety labeling and safety warnings. Individual countries and regional
organizations either have begun to implement GHS or are considering what
portions of it will be adopted and within what timeframe. Most countries in which
we operate will adopt GHS-related legislation. The primary cost of compliance
will revolve around authoring of material safety data sheets and product
labeling, and we are working toward a phased-in approach to mitigate risks of
GHS implementation. Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but
are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results
of operations, financial position or cash flows.

 

Pesticide and Biocide Legislation: Various international, federal and state
environmental laws and regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of
pesticides. We manufacture and sell certain disinfecting and sanitizing
products which kill or reduce microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on hard
environmental surfaces and on certain food products. Such products constitute “pesticides”
or “antimicrobial pesticides” under the current definitions of the Federal
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), as amended by the Food
Quality Protection Act of 1996, the principal federal statute governing the
manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides. We maintain
approximately 330 product registrations with the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (“EPA”). Registration entails the necessity to meet certain efficacy,
toxicity and labeling requirements and to pay on-going registration fees. In
addition, each state in which these products are sold requires registration and
payment of a fee. In general, the states impose no substantive requirements
different from those required by FIFRA. However, California and certain other
states have adopted additional regulatory programs, and California imposes a
tax on total pesticide sales in that state. While the cost of complying with rules as
to pesticides has not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results
of operations, financial condition, or cash flows to date, the costs and delays
in receiving necessary approvals for these products continue to increase. Total
fees paid to the EPA and the states to obtain or maintain pesticide
registrations, and for the California tax, were approximately $3,308,000 in
2008 and $2,800,000 in 2007.

 

In
Europe, the Biocidal Product Directive (98/8/EC) (“BPD”) established a program
to evaluate and authorize marketing of biocidal active substances and products.
We are working with suppliers and industry groups to manage requirements
associated with the BPD, and have met the first relevant deadline of the
program by the timely submission of dossiers for active substances. Anticipated
registration costs, which will be incurred through the BPD phase-in period
ending in 2014, will be significant; however, these costs are not expected to
significantly affect our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in
any one reporting period, or our financial position.

 

In
addition, our Pest Elimination Division applies restricted-use pesticides which
it generally purchases from third parties. That Division must comply with
certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the licensing
of employees who apply such pesticides. Such regulations are enforced primarily
by the states or local jurisdictions in conformity with 

 

8












Table
of Contents

 

federal
regulations. We have not experienced material difficulties in complying with
these requirements.

 

FDA Antimicrobial Product Requirements: Various laws and regulations have been
enacted by federal, state, local and foreign jurisdictions regulating certain
products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on
humans, animals, foods and medical devices. In the United States, these
requirements generally are administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(“FDA”). However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and EPA also may share in
regulatory jurisdiction of antimicrobials applied to food. The FDA also has
been expanding requirements applicable to such products, including proposing
regulations in a Tentative Final Monograph for Healthcare Antiseptic Drug
Products dated June 17, 1994, which may impose additional requirements
associated with antimicrobial hand care products and associated costs when
finalized by the FDA. To date, such requirements have not had a material
adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.

 

Other Environmental Legislation: Our manufacturing plants are subject to
federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations relating to
discharge of hazardous substances into the environment and to the
transportation, handling and disposal of such substances. The primary federal
statutes that apply to our activities in the United States are the Clean Air
Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We
are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986,
which imposes certain reporting requirements as to emissions of hazardous
substances into the air, land and water. Similar legal requirements apply to
Ecolab’s facilities globally.  We make
capital investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and
regulations, to ensure employee safety and to carry out our announced
environmental sustainability principles. To date, such expenditures have not
had a significant adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows. Our capital expenditures for environmental
health and safety projects worldwide were approximately $8,900,000 in 2008 and
$8,100,000 in 2007. Approximately $4,200,000 has been  budgeted globally for projects in 2009.

 

Climate Change: Various laws and regulations pertaining to climate change have been
implemented or are being considered for implementation at the international,
national, regional and state levels, particularly as they relate to the
reduction of greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. None of these laws and
regulations directly applies to Ecolab at the present time; however, as a
matter of corporate policy, Ecolab supports a balanced approach to reducing GHG
emissions while sustaining economic growth and competitiveness. Ecolab has
joined U.S. EPA’s Climate Leaders program, and as part of that program we have
pledged to develop a corporate-wide U.S. GHG emission inventory and work with
EPA to set a GHG reduction goal.

 

Environmental Remediation and Proceedings: Along with numerous other potentially
responsible parties (“PRPs”), we are currently involved with waste disposal
site clean-up activities imposed by the federal Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or state equivalents at 17
sites in the United States. Additionally, we have similar liability at eight
sites outside the United States. In general, under CERCLA, we and each other
PRP that actually contributes hazardous substances to a Superfund site are
jointly and severally liable for the costs associated with cleaning up the
site. Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to agree and implement a
plan for site remediation. Pursuant to an Environmental Agreement dated December 7,
2000 with Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Henkel agreed to indemnify us for
certain environmental liabilities associated with the parties’ former joint
venture in Europe. We have requested euro 261,046 (approximately $368,000 at December 31,
2008) from Henkel for environmental costs during 2008.

 

Based
on an analysis of our experience with such environmental proceedings, our
estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the sites referred to
in the preceding paragraph, and our estimate of the contribution to be made by
other PRPs which

 

9











Table
of Contents

 

we believe have the
financial ability to pay their shares, we have accrued our best estimate of our
probable future costs relating to such known sites. Unasserted claims are not
reflected in the accrual. In establishing accruals, potential insurance
reimbursements are not included. The accrual is not discounted. It is not
feasible to predict when the amounts accrued will be paid due to the
uncertainties inherent in the environmental remediation and associated
regulatory processes.

 

Our worldwide net
expenditures for contamination remediation were approximately $614,000 in 2008
and $1,060,000 in 2007. Including the ChemLawn matter described below, our
worldwide accruals at December 31, 2008 for probable future remediation
expenditures totaled approximately $3,751,000. We review our exposure for
contamination remediation costs periodically and our accruals are adjusted as
considered appropriate. While the final resolution of these issues could result
in costs below or above current accruals and, therefore, have an impact on our
consolidated financial results in a future reporting period, we believe the
ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. In
addition, we have retained responsibility for certain sites where our former
ChemLawn business is a PRP. Currently there is one such location and ChemLawn
is a de minimis party. Anticipated costs
currently accrued for these matters were included in our loss from our
discontinued ChemLawn operations in 1991. The accrual remaining reflects our
best estimate of probable future costs for the one remaining site.

 

Item 1(d) Financial Information
About Geographic Areas.

 

The financial information about geographic
areas appearing under the heading “Operating Segments” in Note 16, located on pages 49
and 50 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

 

Item 1(e) Available Information.

 

Our Internet address is www.ecolab.com.
Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are
available free of charge on our website at www.ecolab.com/investor as soon as
reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

 

In addition, the following governance
materials are available on our website at www.ecolab.com/investor/governance
and the same information is available in print to any requesting persons, free
of charge, by writing to the Corporate Secretary at our headquarters address,
or by submitting an e-mail request to investor.info@ecolab.com:  (i)  charters of the Audit,
Compensation, Finance and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors; (ii) our
Board’s Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) our Code of Conduct and
Code of Ethics for Senior Officers and Finance Associates.

 

Executive
Officers of the Registrant.

 

The persons listed in the following table are
our current executive officers. Officers are elected annually. There is no
family relationship among any of the directors or executive officers, and no
executive officer has been involved during the past five years in any legal
proceedings described in applicable Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations.

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Office
  
  
   
  
  
  Positions Held Since
  Jan. 1, 2004
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Douglas M. Baker, Jr.
  
  
   
  
  
  50
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman of the Board,
  President and Chief Executive Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  May 2006 – Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  President and Chief
  Executive Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Jul. 2004 –
  Apr. 2006
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  President and Chief
  Operating  Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 –
  Jun. 2004
  
 


 

10












Table
of Contents

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Office
  
  
   
  
  
  Positions Held Since
  Jan. 1, 2004
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Lawrence T.
  
  
   
  
  
  60
  
  
   
  
  
  General Counsel and
  Secretary
  
  
   
  
  
  Feb. 2008 - Present
  
 
 
  
  Bell
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President,
  General Counsel and Secretary
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 –
  Jan. 2008
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Larry
  L.
  Berger
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
  
  Chief
  Technical Officer and Senior Vice President-Research, Development &
  Engineering
  
  
   
  
  
  Apr. 2008 – Present (1)
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  John
  J.
  
  
   
  
  
  43
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice
  President and Corporate Controller
  
  
   
  
  
  Apr. 2008 – Present
  
 
 
  
  Corkrean
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice
  President and Treasurer
  
  
   
  
  
  May 2006 – Mar. 2008
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Professional Products Vice President Distributor Sales
  
  
   
  
  
  Apr. 2005 – Apr. 2006
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Professional Products Vice President  and Controller
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 – Mar. 2005
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Steven
  L.
  
  
   
  
  
  54
  
  
   
  
  
  Chief
  Financial Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Feb. 2008 – Present
  
 
 
  
  Fritze
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President and  Chief
  Financial Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Feb. 2004 – Jan. 2008
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior
  Vice President and  Chief
  Financial Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 – Jan. 2004
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Robert K.
  
  
   
  
  
  51
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President –
  Global Supply Chain
  
  
   
  
  
  Oct. 2005 – Present
  
 
 
  
  Gifford
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President – Supply
  Chain Management
  
  
   
  
  
  Sep. 2004 –
  Sep. 2005 (2)
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Thomas W. Handley
  
  
   
  
  
  54
  
  
   
  
  
  President – Industrial and
  Services North America Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2007 - Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President –
  Industrial Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Apr. 2006 –
  Nov. 2007
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President –
  Specialty Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 –
  Mar. 2006
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Michael
  A.  Hickey
  
  
   
  
  
  47
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior
  Vice President – Global Business Development and General Manager GCS Service
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2009
  - Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior
  Vice President – Global Business Development
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2006
  – Dec. 2008
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior
  Vice President – Global / Corporate Accounts
  
  
   
  
  
  Nov. 2005
  – Dec. 2005
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice
  President – Global/Corporate Accounts, Institutional Division
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004
  – Oct. 2005
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Phillip J.
  Mason
  
  
   
  
  
  58
  
  
   
  
  
  President – International
  Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2007 - Present
  
 


 

11












Table
of Contents

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Office
  
  
   
  
  
  Positions Held Since
  Jan. 1, 2004
  
 
 
  
  Phillip J.
  Mason (con’t)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President –
  Asia Pacific and Latin America
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2004 –
  Nov. 2007
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President –
  Strategic Business Development
  
  
   
  
  
  May 2004 –
  Nov. 2004 (3)
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Michael L.
  Meyer
  
  
   
  
  
  51
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President-Human
  Resources
  
  
   
  
  
  Feb. 2008 – Present
  (4)
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  James A.
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
  
  President – Institutional
  North America Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2007 - Present
  
 
 
  
  Miller
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President –
  Institutional Sector North America
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 –
  Nov. 2007
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Susan K. Nestegard
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President –
  Global Healthcare Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Apr. 2008 - Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President –
  Research, Development and Engineering and Chief Technical Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2004 –
  Mar. 2008
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President – Research,
  Development and Engineering and Chief Technical Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 –
  Nov. 2004
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Robert P.
  Tabb
  
  
   
  
  
  58
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President and Chief
  Information Officer
  
  
   
  
  
  Jan. 2004 – Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  James H.
  White
  
  
   
  
  
  44
  
  
   
  
  
  President-EMEA Sector
  
  
   
  
  
  Dec. 2007 – Present
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President –
  EMEA
  
  
   
  
  
  Apr. 2007 –
  Nov. 2007
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President –
  Strategy and Marketing Development
  
  
   
  
  
  May 2006 –
  Mar. 2007
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President –
  Strategic Planning
  
  
   
  
  
  Oct. 2005 –
  Apr. 2006 (5)
  
 


 




 
  
  (1)
  
  
   
  
  
  Prior to joining Ecolab in
  2008, Dr. Berger spent 22 years with E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company,
  most recently as Chief Technical Officer for DuPont Nonwovens.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  (2)
  
  
   
  
  
  Prior to joining Ecolab in
  2004, Mr. Gifford served as Vice President, World Logistics and Program
  Manager of Hewlett Packard Corporation for three years. Prior to Hewlett
  Packard, Mr. Gifford was employed by Compaq and Tandem.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  (3)
  
  
   
  
  
  Mr. Mason re-joined Ecolab
  in 2004, where he formerly served 23 years in various management and
  executive positions, most recently as Vice President – Asia Pacific. Prior to
  re-joining Ecolab, Mr. Mason was employed by HAVI Group, LP, serving as
  President, HPR Partners from 1997-2004.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  (4)
  
  
   
  
  
  Prior to joining Ecolab in
  2008, Mr. Meyer was employed for 24 years by Abbott Laboratories, most
  recently as Vice President Vascular Business Latin America and Canada.
  Mr. Meyer’s management and executive experience includes 22 years in Human
  Resources and assignments in Canada and Hong Kong.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  (5)
  
  
   
  
  
  Prior to joining Ecolab in
  2005, Mr. White was employed by International Multifoods, and served as
  President of its U.S. Consumer Products Division. Mr. White’s employment
  also includes marketing experience at General Mills, and nine years at the
  Pillsbury Company in a succession of management positions.
  
 


 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

 

The following are important factors which could affect our financial
performance and could cause our actual results for future periods to differ
materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those
expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. See
the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 2 of this Form 10-K.

 

12












Table
of Contents

 

We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause
results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements made
in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to
the public.

 

Except as may be required under applicable law, we undertake no duty to
update our Forward-Looking Statements.

 

Our results depend upon the
continued vitality of the markets we serve:  Economic downturns, and in particular
downturns in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care and food
processing industries, can adversely impact our end-users who are sensitive to
changes in travel and dining activities. The current decline in economic
activity is adversely affecting these markets. During such downturns, these
end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing
products, which would likely in turn have an adverse impact on our business.

 

Our results are impacted by
general worldwide economic factors: Economic factors such as the worldwide economy, interest rates and
currency movements including, in particular, our exposure to foreign currency
risk have affected our business in the past and are expected to have a material
adverse impact on our business in the future. The global economy is currently
experiencing considerable disruption and volatility, and the disruption has
been particularly acute in the global credit markets. While currently these
disruptions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets, there can
be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the markets
in which we operate. As a result, ongoing disruption in the global economy
could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.

 

Our results can be adversely
affected by fluctuations in the cost of raw materials: The prices of raw materials used in our
business can fluctuate from time to time, and have increased significantly in
recent years. Changes in oil or raw material prices, unavailability of adequate
and reasonably priced raw materials or substitutes for those raw materials, or
the inability to obtain or renew supply agreements on favorable terms can
adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
cash flows. In addition, recent volatility and disruption in economic activity
and conditions could disrupt or delay the performance of our suppliers or
otherwise impact our ability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices or on
favorable terms, which may adversely affect our business.

 

Our growth depends upon our
ability to successfully compete with respect to value, product offerings and
customer support: Our
competitive market is made up of numerous national, regional and local
competitors. Our ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to
maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify,
develop and commercialize innovative, high value-added products for niche
applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish this
or that technological developments by our competitors will not place certain of
our products at a competitive disadvantage in the future. In addition, certain
of the new products that we have under development will be offered in markets
in which we do not currently compete, and there can be no assurance that we
will be able to compete successfully in those new markets. If we fail to timely
introduce new technologies, we may lose market share and our consolidated
results of operations, financial position, or cash flows could be adversely
affected.

 

We enter into multi-year
contracts with customers that can impact our results: We enter into multi-year contracts with some
of our customers which include terms affecting our pricing flexibility. There
can be no assurance that these restraints will not have an adverse impact on
our margins and operating income.

 

Consolidation of our customers
and vendors can affect our results:  Customers and vendors in the foodservice, hospitality, travel,
healthcare and food processing industries have been consolidating in recent
years and that trend may continue. This consolidation could have an adverse
impact on our ability to retain customers and on our margins and operating
income.

 

13












Table
of Contents

 

If we are unsuccessful in
integrating acquisitions, our business could be adversely affected: As part of our long-term strategy, we seek to
acquire complementary businesses. There can be no assurance that we will find
attractive acquisition candidates or succeed at effectively managing the
integration of acquired businesses into existing businesses. If the expected
synergies from such transactions do not materialize or we fail to successfully
integrate new businesses into our existing businesses, our consolidated results
of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.

 

If we are unsuccessful in
executing on business investments, our business could be adversely affected: We are making investments to develop business
systems and optimize our business structure as part of our ongoing efforts to
improve our efficiency and returns. If the projects in which we are investing
are not successfully executed, our consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.

 

Our business depends on our
ability to comply with governmental regulations: Our business is subject to numerous
regulations relating to the environment and to the manufacture, storage,
distribution, sale and use of our products. Compliance with these regulations,
as well as changes in tax, fiscal, governmental and other regulatory policies
expose us to potential financial liability
and increase our operating costs. Regulation of our products and operations
continues to increase with more stringent standards, causing increased costs of
operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. The potential
cost to us relating to environmental and product registration laws and
regulations is uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type
of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving
nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. In
addition, changes in accounting standards, including the adoption effective January 1,
2007 of FASB Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”, could increase the
volatility of our quarterly tax rate.

 

Extraordinary events may
significantly impact our business: The
occurrence of (a) litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of
a major customer or distributor, (c) war (including acts of terrorism or
hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural or manmade disasters,
or (e) severe weather conditions or public health epidemics affecting the
foodservice, hospitality and travel industries may have a significant, adverse
impact on our business.

 

Defense of litigation, particularly certain
types of actions such as antitrust, patent infringement, wage hour and class
action lawsuits, can be costly and time consuming even if ultimately
successful, and if not successful could have a material adverse impact on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

 

While we have a diverse customer base and no
customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our consolidated
revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the
loss of which could have a material negative effect on our consolidated results
of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it
unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our
financial position.

 

War (including acts of terrorism or
hostilities), natural or manmade disasters or severe weather conditions or
public health epidemics affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel
industries cause a downturn in the business of restaurants, motels and hotels
and other of our customers, which in turn can have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.

 

We depend on key personnel to
lead our business: Our
continued success will largely depend on 

 

14












Table
of Contents

 

our ability to attract and retain a high
caliber of talent and on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers
and certain other key employees. Our operations could be adversely affected if
for any reason such officers or key employees did not remain with us.

 

Item 1B