ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

        Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our business or that could cause our
actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and the other public statements we make. 


        Forward-looking
statements involve matters that are not historical or current facts. Words such as "may," "could," "should," "would," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate,"
"intend," "seeks," "plan," "project," "continue," "predict," or other words or expressions of similar meaning are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking
statements contain these identifying words. 

        Forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to: 



•Projections
of revenues, income, net income per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure, or other financial measures;
•Descriptions
of anticipated plans or objectives of our management for operations, products or services;
•Forecasts
of performance; and
•Assumptions
regarding any of the foregoing. 


        For
example, our forward-looking statements include our expectations regarding: 



•Regarding
Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and our future liquidity needs discussed under "Liquidity and Financial Condition," our ability to
generate cash from operating activities and any declines in our credit ratings or financial condition which could restrict our access to the capital markets or materially increase our financing costs;
•With
respect to our pension funding obligations and expected rate of return on plan assets discussed in "Pension Plans" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Conditions and Results of Operations, or MD&A, in this Form 10-K, the impact of changes in accounting standards and pension funding laws and regulations, measurement of pension and other
postretirement plan assets and pension liabilities, actuarial assumptions and future investment returns on pension assets and pension liabilities;
•With
respect to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, "Commitments and Contingencies", and "Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Other
Contingencies" in MD&A, changes in the market value of our assets or the actual cost of our commitments or contingencies, including, without limitation, the negotiated or appraised price payable under
the CSC option, if exercised;
•Regarding
Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, estimated future amortization expense related to definite lived purchased intangible assets at
December 31, 2007, our ability to accurately estimate the fair value of such assets;
•Regarding
Notes 2 and 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the fact that amounts recorded at December 31, 2007, related to the acquisition of TALX,
and the associated estimates of future amortization, are preliminary estimates that will be finalized upon the completion of federal and state tax returns and valuation of acquired fixed assets;
•With
respect to our business outlook discussed under "Business Overview" in MD&A, our views on the health and future growth of the U.S. and global economies during 2008; and
•With
respect to our USCIS business discussed under "Results of Operations—Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005" in MD&A, our ability to
protect operating margins during 2008. 

16




 





You
should not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They represent our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they were made,
and, except as required by law, they might not be updated to reflect changes as they occur after the forward-looking statements are made. 

Risks and Uncertainties  

Risks Related to Our Business and Growth Strategy  

If we are not successful in implementing our long-term growth strategy, we may be unable to grow our business and our results of operations
may be adversely affected.  

        We have developed a long-term growth strategy which includes (1) increasing our share of our customers' spending on information-related
services through the development and introduction of new products, pricing our services in accordance with the value they create for customers, increasing the range of current services utilized by
customers, and improving the quality of sales and customer support interactions with consumers; (2) increasing our customers' use of our proprietary analytical, predictive and enabling
technologies; (3) investing in and developing new, differentiated data sources that provide unique value to customers in their highest value decisioning needs; and (4) expanding into key
emerging opportunities via acquisitions, partnerships, and/or internal development, including related markets in the U.S., such as initiatives in the commercial, collections, and healthcare markets,
as well as new geographic markets outside the U.S. If we are unable to successfully execute our growth strategy, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we
anticipate, or our revenues, net income and earnings per share may decline. 

We may incur risks related to acquisitions or significant investment in businesses which could jeopardize the success of these acquisitions and increase
our costs.  

        Our long-term strategy includes growth through acquisitions and investments in businesses that offer complementary products, services and
technologies. Any acquisitions or investments, including our recent acquisition of TALX as described in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations," will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses. Such risks include: 



•The
financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined business may not be achieved;
•The
possibility that we will pay more than the acquired companies or assets are worth;
•Unexpected
liabilities arising out of the acquired businesses;
•The
difficulty of assimilating the systems, operations and personnel of the acquired businesses;
•The
potential disruption of our ongoing business;
•The
potential dilution of our existing shareholders and earnings per share;
•Unanticipated
legal risks and costs;
•The
distraction of management from our ongoing business; and
•The
impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel. 


        These
factors could harm our business, results of operations or financial position, particularly in the event of a significant acquisition. The acquisition of businesses having a
significant presence outside the U.S. will increase our relative exposure to the risks of conducting operations in international markets. 

17




 

Deterioration of current economic conditions may decrease our customers' demand for consumer credit information, which may harm our results of
operations.  

        Although we continue to take steps to diversify our lines of business, consumer credit reports we sell in the U.S. and certain international markets, including
the U.K., Canada and in Latin America, remain a core product. In general, our customers use our credit information and related services to process applications for new credit cards, automobile loans,
home mortgages, home equity loans and other consumer loans. They also use our credit information and services to monitor existing credit relationships. Consumer demand for credit (i.e., rates
of spending and levels of indebtedness) tends to grow more slowly or decline during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth. Rising rates of interest may reduce consumer demand for
mortgage loans and also impact our mortgage services joint venture. A decline in consumer demand for credit or in levels of employment may reduce our customers' demand for our consumer credit
information. Consequently, our revenues from consumer credit information products and services could be negatively affected and our results of operations harmed if consumer demand for credit
decreases. In addition, if current economic conditions in the U.S. decline further, this decline could detrimentally impact the economies of the countries outside the U.S. in which we operate and
could influence customer demand for our non-consumer credit information-based businesses, including North America Commercial Solutions and TALX, which could further negatively impact our
results of operations. 

The loss of access to credit and other data from external sources could harm our ability to provide our products and services.  

        We rely extensively upon data from external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data received from customers,
strategic partners and various government and public record sources. Our data sources could withdraw their data from us for a variety of reasons, including legislatively or judicially imposed
restrictions on use. We also compete with several of our third-party data suppliers. If a substantial number of data sources or certain key data sources were to withdraw or be unable to provide their
data, if we were to lose access to data due to government regulation, or if the collection of data becomes uneconomical, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially
adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. 

Our markets are highly competitive and new product introductions and pricing strategies being offered by our competitors could decrease our sales and
market share or require us to reduce our prices in a manner that reduces our operating margins.  


        We operate in a number of geographic, product and service markets that are highly competitive, as described above under "Competition." We currently have a
business relationship with Fair Isaac Corporation to resell their credit scoring product and are also involved in litigation with that firm arising from our development with TransUnion and Experian of
the VantageScore (SM) credit scoring product which is competitive with Fair Isaac's products. Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to or that achieve greater market
acceptance than our products and services. 

        The
sizes of our competitors vary across market segments, as do the resources we have allocated to the segments we target. Therefore, some of our competitors may have significantly
greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources than we do in one or more of our market segments, or overall. As a result, our competitors may be in a position to respond more quickly than
we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of products and services.
Moreover, new competitors or alliances among our competitors may emerge and potentially reduce our market share, revenue or margins. If we are unable to respond as quickly or effectively to changes in
customer 

18




 


requirements
as our competition, our ability to expand our business and sell our products and services will be negatively affected. 

        Some
of our competitors also may choose to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or may be able to sell products competitive to
ours at lower prices given proprietary ownership of data, technical superiority or economies of scale. Price reductions
by our competitors could negatively impact our margins and results of operations, and could also harm our ability to obtain new customers on favorable terms. Historically, certain of our products have
experienced declines in per unit pricing due to competitive factors and customer demand. If prices decline in the future at faster rates than in the past due to unforeseen changes in competition or
customer demand, our business could be adversely affected. 

Our ability to increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products and services, and if the marketplace does not accept these
new products and services, our revenues may remain flat or decline.  

        To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that keep
pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe much of our future growth prospects will rest on our ability to
continue to expand into newer products and services. Products that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development. We cannot assure that the marketplace will accept these
products. If our current or potential customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, our ability to increase revenues or improve operating margins will be impaired. 

If we fail to keep up with rapidly changing technologies, our products and services could become less competitive or obsolete.  


        In our markets, technology changes rapidly and there are continuous improvements in computer hardware, network operating systems, programming tools, programming
languages, operating systems, database technology and the use of the Internet. Advances in technology may result in changing customer preferences for products and services and delivery formats. If we
fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer preferences, our products and services could rapidly become less
competitive or obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to internally develop new and competitive technologies; use leading third-party technologies effectively; continue to
develop our technical expertise; anticipate and effectively respond to changing customer needs; and influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. 

If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital at an acceptable cost, we may be unable to continue to effectively compete and expand our
business.  

        We may require additional capital to purchase assets, complete strategic acquisitions, repurchase shares on the open market or for general liquidity needs.
Declines in our credit rating or limits on our ability to sell additional shares may adversely affect our ability to raise capital or materially increase our cost
of capital. Our inability to raise additional capital at a reasonable cost may adversely impact our revenue growth and the price of our stock. 

We may suffer adverse financial consequences if Computer Sciences Corporation requires us to purchase its credit reporting business when the public
equity or debt markets or other financing conditions are unfavorable to us.  


        In 1988, we entered into an agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation, or CSC, and certain of its affiliates under which CSC's credit reporting agencies
utilize our computerized credit database 

19




 


services.
Under this agreement, CSC has an option, exercisable at any time, to sell its credit reporting business to us. The option expires in August 2013. The option exercise price will be determined
by an appraisal process and would be due in cash within 180 days after the exercise of the option. We estimate that if CSC were to exercise the option today, the option price would be
approximately $650.0 million to $725.0 million. This estimate is based solely on our internal analysis of the value of the business, current market conditions and other factors, all of
which are subject to constant change. Therefore, the actual option exercise price could be materially higher or lower than the estimated amount. If CSC were to exercise its option, we would have to
obtain additional sources of funding. We believe that this funding would be available from sources such as additional bank lines of credit and the issuance of public debt and/or equity. However, the
availability and terms of any such capital financing would be subject to a number of factors, including credit market conditions, the state of the equity markets, general economic conditions and our
financial performance and condition. Because we do not control the timing of CSC's exercise of its option, we could be required to seek such financing and increase our debt levels at a time when
market or other conditions are unfavorable. 

Our international operations subject us to additional business risks and related costs that may reduce our profitability or revenues.  

        During 2007, we generated approximately 27% of our revenues from business outside the U.S. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue
opportunities outside the U.S. As a result, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Risks that could give rise to
incremental costs in our international operations include: political and economic instability; changes in regulatory requirements and policy and the adoption of laws detrimental to our operations,
such as legislation relating to the collection and use of personal data; negative impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; increased restrictions on the
repatriation of earnings; and general economic conditions in international markets. We may not be able to avoid significant expenditures should one or more of these risk factors occur. 

Security is critically important to our business, and breaches of security, or the perception that e-commerce is not secure, could harm our
business and reputation.  

        Business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce, including that which is Internet-based,
requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Several of our products are accessed through the Internet, including our consumer and commercial information services
that are delivered via ePORT, our Internet delivery channel, and our Personal Solutions services accessible through the www.equifax.com website. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of
our products and services via ePORT, our Personal Solutions website, or well-publicized security breaches not involving the Internet that may affect us or our industry, such as database
intrusion, could be detrimental to our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or
other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products, consumer services and proprietary database information. 

If we experience system failures, the delivery of our products and services to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our
business and reputation and result in the loss of customers.  

        Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Some of
these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our systems and operations
could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, war, terrorist act, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. The steps we have taken and
are taking to prevent a system failure, including 

20




 


backup
disaster recovery systems, may not be successful, and our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. 


The loss of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, could make it more difficult to run our business and reduce
our likelihood of success.  

        We are dependent on our ability to attract and retain experienced sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, technical support and management
personnel. The loss of our key employees and management might slow the achievement of important business goals. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled and experienced technical personnel on
acceptable terms because of intense competition. 

If our outside service providers and key vendors are not able to fulfill their service obligations, our business and operations could be disrupted, and
our operating results could be harmed.  

        Outside service providers and vendors perform critical functions for us. While we have implemented service level agreements and have established monitoring
controls, our operations could be disrupted if we do not successfully manage our service providers or if the service providers do not perform satisfactorily to agreed upon service levels. In addition,
our business, reputation and operating results could be adversely affected. 

If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete effectively could be diminished.  

        Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on the protection of our technology, products, services and brands through intellectual property right
protections, including patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets and trademarks. The extent to which such rights can be protected and enforced varies in different jurisdictions. 


We face and could continue to face claims for intellectual property infringement, which could subject us to significant monetary damages or limit or
prohibit us from using some of our technologies, products and services.  

        There is a risk of litigation relating to our use or future use of intellectual property rights of third parties. Third-party infringement claims and any related
litigation against us could subject us to liability for damages, restrict us from using and providing our technologies, products or services or operating our business generally, or require changes to
be made to our technologies, products and services. We are currently a defendant in litigation brought by Fair Isaac Corporation arising from our development with TransUnion and Experian of the
VantageScore credit scoring product that is competitive with Fair Isaac's products, in which the plaintiff has alleged trademark infringement, among other claims. 

Our agreements with key long-term customers may not be renewed.  

        We have long-standing relationships with a number of our large customers. There can be no assurance that these relationships will continue, due to
market competition, customer requirements and customer consolidation through mergers or acquisitions. Although our largest single customer
represents less than 3% of our total revenue, the loss of a significant number of major customers could materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or operating results. 

There may be further consolidation in our end-client markets.  

        To the extent that our existing clients merge with or are acquired by other entities who are not our clients or who use fewer of our services, such as in the
financial services sector, we could be adversely impacted if the surviving entities use fewer of our services or discontinue use of our services altogether, or if the number of potential clients is
thereby reduced. 

21




 

Our tax provisions may not be adequate, which would require us to pay greater than expected taxes.  

        Although we believe we have made appropriate provisions for taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate on the basis of current law, due to possible
changes of law or challenges from tax authorities under existing laws it is possible that the provision may turn out to be insufficient and this could materially affect our financial condition by
causing us to incur additional tax expense. 

The outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings in which we are involved could subject us to significant monetary damages or restrictions on our
ability to do business.  

        Various legal proceedings arise during the normal course of our business. These include individual consumer cases, class action lawsuits, and actions brought by
regulators. While we do not currently believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, litigation is inherently
uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Our insurance arrangements may be insufficient to cover an adverse
judgment in a large lawsuit. See Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" for information on our material pending litigation. 

Risks Relating to Our Industry  

Changes in the legislative, regulatory and judicial environments may adversely affect our ability to collect, manage, aggregate and use data and may
increase our costs of doing so.  

        The credit reporting, direct marketing and employment verification industries are subject to substantial government regulation relating to individual privacy and
the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals. The information and personal data we collect is subject to a variety of government regulations, including, but not limited to,
those described above under "Information Security and Government Regulation." In addition, public interest in individual privacy rights and the collection, protection, distribution and use of
information about individuals may result in the adoption of new federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could include increased compliance requirements and restrictions on the
purchase, sale, maintenance, handling and sharing of information about consumers for commercial purposes. This could have a negative impact on our ability to collect such information provided by
consumers voluntarily. Future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, management and use of data about individuals, and adverse publicity, judicial interpretations or potential litigation
concerning the commercial use of such information may result in substantial regulatory compliance costs, litigation expense or a loss of revenue. 


Risks Related to Our Common Stock  

We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock and could contain
terms and rights that are superior to those of our common stock.  

        The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities could result in dilution of the then-existing
shareholders' equity interests in us. We are authorized to issue, without shareholder approval, up to 300,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 133,433,311 shares were outstanding as of
December 31, 2007, including shares held by employee benefits trusts. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of shareholders, up to 10,000,000
shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain
dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If we
issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common shareholders' interest. 

22




 

Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan, other agreements and Georgia law may make it difficult for a third-party
to acquire us, even in situations that may be viewed as desirable by our shareholders.  

        Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan, other agreements and the Georgia Business Corporation Code of the State of Georgia, or Georgia
Code, contain provisions that may delay or prevent an attempt by a third party to acquire control of our company. For example, our articles of incorporation: 



•Provide
for classified terms for the members of our Board of Directors;
•Authorize
our Board of Directors to fill vacant directorships or to increase the size of the Board;
•Do
not authorize our shareholders to remove a director without cause;
•Do
not authorize our shareholders to cumulate voting in the election of directors; and
•Authorize
the issuance of preferred stock with such rights, powers and privileges as the Board of Directors deems appropriate. 



        In
addition, our bylaws limit the ability of shareholders to bring business before a meeting of shareholders and do not allow our shareholders to act by written consent. 

        We
are a Georgia corporation and have elected to be governed by the "business combination" and "fair price" provisions of the Georgia Code, that could be viewed as having the effect of
discouraging an attempt to obtain control of us. The business combination provision generally would prohibit us from engaging in various business combination transactions with any interested
shareholder for a period of five years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless certain designated conditions are met. 

        The
fair price provision generally requires that, absent Board or shareholder approval of an acquisition or merger, an interested shareholder seeking to engage in a business combination
transaction with us must pay the remaining shareholders the same price for their shares as was paid by the interested shareholder to acquire beneficial ownership of 10% or more of our outstanding
voting shares. 

        We
have also implemented a shareholder rights plan, sometimes referred to as a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third-party to acquire our company on a hostile basis. 

        These
provisions could also discourage or impede a tender offer, proxy contest or other similar transaction involving control of us, even if viewed favorably by shareholders. 


  
 
ITEM 1B