ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS        

Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance may
not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in a future period. 

 Economic weakness and uncertainty could materially adversely affect us.  

Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Continued economic weakness and uncertainty could harm our
consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and stock price, and limit our ability to sustain profitability. Such economic conditions also make it more difficult for us to make
accurate forecasts of our revenue, gross margins and expenses. 

Our
business customers use our credit information and related analytical services and data to process applications for new credit cards, automobile loans, home mortgages, home equity loans and other
consumer loans, and to manage their existing credit relationships. Bank and other lenders' willingness to extend credit has been adversely affected by elevated consumer delinquency and loan losses in
the current weak economy. Consumer demand for credit (i.e., rates of spending and levels of indebtedness) also tends to grow more slowly or decline during periods of economic contraction or
slow economic growth. Rising rates of unemployment and interest, declines in income, home prices, or investment values,
lower consumer confidence and reduced access to credit adversely affect demand for our products and services, and consequently our revenue, as customers may continue to postpone spending and their use
of credit. 

In
addition, we have experienced gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as reduced demand for our services, competitive pricing pressures and increases in
expenses resulting from higher labor, development and other costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature
due to sales, information technology and development and other costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough to changes in our revenues, we could experience further reductions in our gross
margins. 

Economic
weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets could negatively
impact our treasury operations. Also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate
rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Poor financial performance of asset markets could lead to increased pension and post-retirement benefit expenses.
Other income and expense could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, hedging 

14




 


expenses
and the fair value of derivative instruments. Economic downturns also may lead to further restructuring actions and associated expenses. 


 The loss of access to credit and other data from external sources could harm our ability to provide our products and services.  

We rely extensively upon data from external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data received
from customers, strategic partners and various government and public record sources. Our data sources could withdraw their data from us for a variety of reasons, including legislatively or judicially
imposed restrictions on use. We also compete with several of our third-party data suppliers. If a substantial number of data sources or certain key data sources were to withdraw or be unable to
provide their data, if we were to lose access to data due to government regulation, or if the collection of data becomes uneconomical, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could
be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenue, net income and earnings per share. 

 Our markets are highly competitive and new product introductions and pricing strategies being offered by our competitors could decrease our sales and market share or require
us to reduce our prices in a manner that reduces our operating margins.  

We operate in a number of geographic, product and service markets that are highly competitive, as described above under "Item 1.
Business — Competition." Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. The size of our
competitors varies across market segments, as do the resources we have allocated to the segments we target. Therefore, some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical,
marketing or other resources than we do in one or more of our market segments, or overall. As a result, our competitors may be in a position to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging
technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of products and services. Moreover, new competitors or
alliances among our competitors may emerge and potentially reduce our market share, revenue or margins. 

Some
of our competitors may choose to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or may be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower
prices given proprietary ownership of data, technological superiority or economies of scale. Price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins and results of operations and could
also harm our ability to obtain new customers on favorable terms. Historically, certain of our key products have experienced declines in per unit pricing due to competitive factors and customer
demand. If prices decline in the future at faster rates than in the past due to unforeseen changes in competition or customer demand, our business could be adversely affected. 


 If we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner, our products and services will become obsolete and our operating results will suffer.  

We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and
changing industry standards. In addition, certain of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products
and services will become technologically or commercially obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on
several factors, including our ability to properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely
manner; produce and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitor offerings; price our products competitively; anticipate our competitors' development
of new products, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our product development process. 

15




 

 Failure to adjust our business due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income.  


Our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our business to market fluctuations, including those caused by the cyclical nature of the
markets in which we operate. The sale of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to cyclical trends in the demand for their products.
Consumer demand for credit is particularly volatile, in the current environment, making demand difficult to anticipate. 

 The impact of consolidation in the financial services, mortgage, retail, telecommunications and other markets is difficult to predict and may harm our business.  

The financial services, mortgage, retail and telecommunications industries are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing
consolidation. Continuation of the consolidation trends in these and other industries could result in lower average prices for the larger combined entities, lower combined purchases of our services
than were purchased cumulatively by separate entities prior to consolidation, or existing competitors increasing their market share in newly consolidated entities, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are not retained or chosen as a service provider. We may not be able to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated
industry and cannot predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or us. 

 Our cost reduction and restructuring initiatives may not result in anticipated savings or may negatively affect the quality or effectiveness of our services.  


Over the past several years, we have implemented, and are continuing to implement, significant cost-reduction measures. These measures
have been taken in an effort to improve or maintain our profitability in the face of pressure on revenues and realign our company to focus on strategic initiatives. We have incurred restructuring
charges in connection with these cost reduction efforts. If these measures are not fully completed or are not completed in a timely fashion, we may not realize their full potential benefit. Such
efforts may also be disruptive to our operations. These cost reduction measures may have the effect of reducing our talent pool and available resources and, consequently, could have
long-term effects on our business by decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, affecting our ability to respond to customers, limiting our ability to expand in new markets or to
hire and retain key personnel. 

 Dependence on outsourcing certain portions of our supply and distribution chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation.
Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.  

As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to reduce operating costs, we have outsourced various components of our application development,
information technology, operational support and administrative functions and will continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. Although we have implemented service level agreements and have
established monitoring controls, if our outsourcing vendors fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and support
our customers, and our reputation could suffer. Any failure to perform on the part of these third party providers could impair our ability to operate effectively and could result in lower future
revenue, unexecuted efficiencies and adversely impact our results of operations and our stock price. Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to
geopolitical uncertainty. 

 If we experience system failures, the delivery of our products and services to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation
and result in the loss of customers.  

Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers.
Some of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers and large expenses
to repair or replace the facility. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from power disruption, fire, flood, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer
viruses, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. The steps we have taken and are taking to prevent a system failure, including 

16




 

backup
disaster recovery systems, may not be effective. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Also, our third
party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. 

 Interest rates and credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of capital and net income.  

Rising interest rates, credit market dislocations and decisions and actions by credit rating agencies can affect the availability and cost of our
funding. Credit rating downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks can increase our cost of capital and hurt our competitive position. Guidance from rating agencies as to acceptable leverage
can affect our returns as well. 

 If we are not able to achieve our overall long-term goals, the value of an investment in our Company could be negatively affected.  

We have established and publicly announced certain long-term growth objectives. These objectives were based on our evaluation of our
growth prospects, which are generally based on volume and sales potential of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others, and on an assessment of potential level or mix of
product sales. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the required volume or revenue growth or mix of products necessary to achieve our growth objectives. 


 We may suffer adverse financial consequences if Computer Sciences Corporation requires us to purchase its credit reporting business at a time when the public equity or debt
markets or other financing conditions are unfavorable to us.  

In 1988, we entered into an agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation, or CSC, and certain of its affiliates under which CSC's credit reporting
agencies utilize our computerized credit database services. Under this agreement, CSC has an option, exercisable at any time, to sell its credit reporting business to us. The option expires in August
2013. The option exercise price will be determined by an appraisal process and would be due in cash within 180 days after the exercise of the option. We estimate that if CSC were to exercise
the option at December 31, 2009, the option price would have been approximately $600 million to $675 million. This estimate is based solely on our internal analysis of the value
of the business, current market conditions and other factors, all of which are subject to constant change. Therefore, the actual option exercise price could be materially higher or lower than the
estimated amount. If CSC were to exercise its option, we would have to obtain additional sources of funding. We believe that this funding would be available from sources such as additional bank lines
of credit and the issuance of public debt and/or equity. However, the availability and terms of any such capital financing would be subject to a number of factors, including credit or equity market
conditions, general economic conditions and our financial performance and condition. Because we do not control the timing of the exercise, if any, by CSC of its option, we could be required to seek
such financing and increase our debt levels at a time when market or other conditions are unfavorable. 

 Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our results of operations and liquidity.  

Our costs of providing for non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of
return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, future government regulation and our required or voluntary
contributions made to the plans. A significant decline in the value of investments that fund our pension plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in our liabilities, may significantly differ
from or alter the values and actuarial assumptions used to calculate our future pension expense. A decline in the value of these investments could increase the expense of our pension plans, and we
could be required to fund our plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect
results of operations. 


 If we are unable to expand our operations in developing and emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected.  

Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, which in turn depends on economic and political
conditions in those 

17




 

markets
and on our ability to acquire or form strategic business alliances and joint ventures and to make necessary investments in facilities, training, marketing and technology. Moreover, the
products and services we offer in developing and emerging markets must match our customers' demand for those products. Due to product price, limited purchasing power and differences in the development
of consumer credit markets, there can be no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular developing or emerging market. 

 Our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial outcomes that are different than expected.  

In the normal course of business, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint
ventures and divestitures, and generally expect to complete several transactions per year that we believe are aligned with our strategic focus. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to
find appropriate candidates for acquisitions, reach agreement to acquire them, have the cash or other resources necessary to acquire them, or obtain requisite shareholder or regulatory approvals
needed to close strategic acquisitions. The impact of future acquisitions on our business, operating results and financial condition are not known at this time. In the case of businesses we may
acquire in the future, we may have difficulty assimilating these businesses and their products, services, technologies, and personnel into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing
business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Also, we may not be able to retain key management
and other critical employees after an acquisition. We may also acquire unanticipated liabilities. In addition to these risks, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. 

 Our customers and we are subject to various current governmental regulations, and could be affected by new laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur
significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.  

Our businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to privacy and
consumer data protection, health and safety, tax, labor and environmental regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We
may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could
also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our
products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. 

We
also have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities, including through the Performance Assessment Network subsidiary of our TALX business and, as a result, we are
subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For
example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing
government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative penalties. 

 Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling
products or services.  

From time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and
take action in response to such claims on a case by case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be 

18




 

costly
and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from our
business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available under acceptable terms or at
all, or could subject us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in
asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of intellectual property infringement. In certain of our businesses we rely on third party intellectual property licenses and
we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all. 

 Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.  

Our success increasingly depends on our proprietary technology. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights,
database rights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality
provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. The extent to which such rights can be protected varies in different jurisdictions. If we do not enforce our intellectual
property rights successfully our competitive position may suffer which could harm our operating results. Our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration
applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual
property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. 

We
may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. Our competitive position may be harmed if
we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant
intellectual property position or for other business reasons. In addition, competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing
non-infringing competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries which could make it easier for
competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenue. 

 Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations.  

Sales outside the U.S. make up approximately 25% of our net operating revenue and, as a result, our business is subject to various risks associated
with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent an increasing portion of our total revenue. In addition, many of our employees,
suppliers, job functions and facilities are increasingly located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: 


•changes in specific country or region political, economic or other conditions;   
•trade protection measures;   
•data privacy and consumer protection regulations;   
•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;   
•differing labor, intellectual property protection and technology standards and regulations;   
•business licensing requirements or other requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase
our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from entering certain markets, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions;   
•difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner;  
•changes in tax laws; and   
•geopolitical instability, including terrorism and war. 

We
earn revenue, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including among others the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Brazilian
real, the Chilean peso and the Euro. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenue, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities,
into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will
affect our net operating revenues, operating 

19




 


income
and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in
others over time. We generally do not mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates, although we may from time to time through forward contracts or other derivative instruments hedge a
portion of our translational foreign currency exposure or exchange rate risks
associated with material transactions which are denominated in a foreign currency. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of
unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against major currencies, may materially affect our consolidated financial results. 

In
many foreign countries, particularly those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we
outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our
business and reputation. 

 If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted.  


We are highly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information.
In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. Security
breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches, our operations could be
disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. 

Many
of our products are accessed through the Internet, including our consumer and commercial information services. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services via
the Internet otherwise may affect us or our industry and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal
capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services. 

 Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel.  

Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key development, sales, marketing, executive and administrative personnel. If we
fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our business. We believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate.
However, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit, and it may become more difficult to retain our key employees. 

 We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges.  

We assess our goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets and our long-lived assets as and when required by generally accepted
accounting principles in the U.S. to determine whether they are impaired. Unexpected declines in our operating results and structural changes in our principal markets may also result in impairment
charges. Additional impairment charges would reduce our reported earnings for the periods in which they are recorded. 

 Changes in tax laws and requirements and accounting standards could affect our future results.  

We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of
earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax rates or their interpretation. In addition, the Obama
Administration and the U.S. Congress have recently announced proposals for new U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect 

20




 

our
tax rate. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are also subject to the continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service
and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that
the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 


New
accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant
effect on our reported results for the affected periods. 

 Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially affect us.  

We are subject to legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved and additional
claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. We may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially
adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially affect our financial condition and operating results. 

 We are subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance.  

For certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because we retain some portion of insurable risks, and
in some cases self-insure completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits could materially adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. 


<A
NAME="de78701_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B