ITEM 1A.        RISK
FACTORS

The following risk factors and other information
included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks
and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional
risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to
be less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the
following risks actually were to occur, our business, financial condition or
results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Risks Related to Our Business

Since our revenues
depend to a large extent on our customers’ demand for consumer credit
information, deterioration of current economic conditions may harm our results
of operations.

Consumer credit reports
constitute our core product. In general, our customers use our credit
information and related services to process applications for new credit cards,
automobile loans, home mortgages and refinancing and other consumer loans. They
also use our credit information and services to monitor existing credit
relationships. Consumer demand for credit, i.e., rates of spending and levels
of indebtedness, tends to grow more slowly or decline during periods of
economic contraction or slow economic growth. Rising rates of interest may
reduce consumer demand for mortgage loans. A decline in consumer demand for
credit may reduce our customers’ demand for our consumer credit information.
Consequently, our revenues from consumer credit information products and
services could be negatively affected and our results of operations harmed if
consumer demand for credit decreases.

The loss of access
to credit and other data from external sources could harm our ability to
provide our products and services.

We rely extensively upon
data from external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary
databases, including data received from customers and various government and
public record services. Our data sources could withdraw their data from us for
a variety of reasons, including legislatively or judicially imposed
restrictions on use. If a substantial number of data sources were to withdraw
their data, or if we were to lose access to data due to government regulation,
our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially
adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and
earnings per share.


 12 





Our markets are
highly competitive and new product introductions and pricing strategies being
offered by our competitors could decrease our sales and market share, or
require us to reduce our prices in a manner that reduces our gross margins.

We operate in a number of geographic, product and
service markets that are highly competitive. In consumer credit reporting
services, we compete primarily with two global consumer credit reporting
companies, Experian and TransUnion. We also compete with these and other
companies, including Acxiom Corporation, Harte-Hanks, Inc. and InfoUSA, Inc.
with respect to our direct marketing services, Fair Issac Corporation, Experian
and TransUnion with respect to our analytical tools and a variety of software
companies with respect to our enabling technologies. Competitors may develop
products and services that are superior to or that achieve greater market
acceptance than our products and services.

The sizes of our competitors vary across market
segments, as do the resources we have allocated to the segments we target.
Therefore, some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial,
technical, marketing or other resources than we do in each of our market
segments or overall. As a result, our competitors may be in a position to
respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in
customer requirements, or may devote greater resources than we can to the
development, promotion, sale and support of products and services. Moreover,
new competitors or alliances among our competitors may emerge and potentially
reduce our market share. If we are unable to respond as quickly or effectively
to changes in customer requirements as our competition, our ability to expand
our business and sell our products and services will be negatively affected.

Some of our competitors
may also be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices given
proprietary ownership of data, technical superiority or economies of scale.
Price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins and
results of operations, and could also harm our ability to obtain new commercial
relationships on favorable terms.

Our ability to
increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products
and services, and if the marketplace does not accept these new products and
services, our revenues may decline.

To increase our revenues,
we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new
products and new versions of existing products that keep pace with
technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer
requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe much of our future
growth prospects will rest on our ability to continue to expand into newer
products and services. Products that we plan to market in the future are in
various stages of development. We cannot assure that the marketplace will
accept these products. If our current or potential customers are not willing to
switch to or adopt our new products and services, our ability to increase
revenues will be impaired.

If we fail to keep
up with rapidly changing technologies, our products and services could become
less competitive or obsolete.

In our markets, technology
changes rapidly and there are continuous improvements in computer hardware,
network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating
systems, database technology and the use of the Internet. Advances in
technology may result in changing customer preferences for products and services
and delivery formats. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop
new products in response to changes in technology, industry standards or
customer preferences, our products and services could rapidly become less
competitive or obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our
ability to internally develop new and competitive technologies; use leading
third-party technologies effectively; continue to develop our technical
expertise; anticipate and effectively respond to changing customer needs; and
influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological
changes.


 13 





We may suffer
adverse financial consequences if Computer Sciences Corporation requires us to
purchase its credit reporting business when the public equity or debt markets
or other financing conditions are unfavorable to us.

In 1988, we entered into
an agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation, or CSC, and certain of its
affiliates under which CSC’s credit reporting agencies utilize our computerized
credit database services. Under the agreement, CSC has an option, exercisable
at any time, to sell its credit reporting business to us. The option expires in
August 2013. The option exercise price will be determined by an appraisal
process and would be due in cash within 180 days after the exercise of the
option. We estimate that if CSC were to exercise the option today, the option
price would be approximately $650 million to $700 million. This estimate
is based solely on our internal analysis of the value of the businesses,
current market conditions and other factors, all of which are subject to
constant change. Therefore, the actual option exercise price could be
materially higher or lower than the estimated amount. If CSC were to exercise
its option, we would have to obtain additional sources of funding. We believe
that this funding would be available from sources such as additional bank lines
of credit and the issuance of public debt and/or equity. However, the
availability and terms of any such capital financing would be subject to a
number of factors, including credit market conditions, the state of the equity
markets, general economic conditions and our financial performance and
condition. Because we do not control the timing of CSC’s exercise of its option,
we could be required to seek such financing and increase our debt levels at a
time when market or other conditions are unfavorable.

Our international
operations subject us to additional business risks that may reduce our
profitability or revenues.

We conduct business
outside the U.S. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we
received approximately 26% of our revenues from business outside the U.S. As
part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue opportunities
outside the U.S. As a result, our future operating results could be negatively
affected by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The
risks and potential costs of our international operations include: political
and economic instability; changes in regulatory requirements and policy and the
adoption of laws detrimental to our operations, such as legislation relating to
the collection and use of personal data; negative impact of currency exchange
rate fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; increased restrictions
on the repatriation of earnings; and general economic conditions in
international markets. We may not be able to avoid significant expenditures in
addressing these potential risks.

Security is
important to our business, and breaches of security, or the perception that
e-commerce is not secure, could harm our business.

Business-to-business and
business-to-consumer electronic commerce, including that which is Internet-based,
requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public
networks. Several of our products are accessed through the Internet, including
our consumer and commercial information services that are delivered via ePORT™,
our Internet delivery channel and our Personal Solutions services accessible
through the www.equifax.com website. Security breaches in connection with the
delivery of our products and services via ePORT™, our Personal Solutions website
or well-publicized security breaches not involving the Internet that may affect
us or our industry, such as database intrusion, could be detrimental to our
business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot be certain that
advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography
or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting
the networks that access our products, consumer services and proprietary
database information.


 14 





If we experience
system failures, the delivery of our products and services to our customers
could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation
and result in the loss of customers.

Our ability to provide
reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation
of our computer network systems and data centers. Some of these systems have
been outsourced to third party providers. Any significant interruptions could
severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers.
Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from
fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized
entry and computer viruses. The steps we have taken to prevent a system failure,
including backup disaster recovery systems, may not be successful and our
property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate
us for all losses or failures that may occur.

We may incur risks
related to acquisitions or significant investment in businesses.

We have made in the
past, and may make in the future, acquisitions of, or significant investments
in, businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies.
Any acquisitions or investments will be accompanied by the risks commonly
encountered in acquisitions of businesses. Such risks include:

·       The
financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined business may not be
achieved;

·       The
possibility that we will pay more than the acquired companies or assets are
worth;

·       Unexpected
liabilities arising out of the acquired businesses;

·       The
difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired
businesses;

·       The
potential disruption of our ongoing business;

·       The
potential dilution of our existing shareholders and earnings per share;

·       Unanticipated
liabilities, legal risks and costs;

·       The
distraction of management from our ongoing business; and

·       The
impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any
integration of new management personnel.

These factors could harm
our business, results of operations or financial position, particularly in the
event of a significant acquisition. The acquisition of businesses having a
significant presence outside the U.S. will increase our relative exposure to
the risks of conducting operations in international markets.

The loss of key
personnel, or the inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel,
could make it more difficult to run our business and reduce our likelihood of
success.

We are dependent on the
principal members of our management and technical computer information systems
staff. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers
other than Richard F. Smith, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Donald
T. Heroman, Chief Financial Officer. The loss of our management and key
technical employees might slow the achievement of important business goals. It
is also critical to our success that we recruit and retain qualified technical
personnel to perform development work. We may not be able to attract and retain
skilled and experienced technical personnel on acceptable terms because of
intense competition.


 15










Risks Related to
Our Common Stock

We have the ability
to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our
issued and outstanding common stock.

The issuance of additional
equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result
in dilution of the then-existing shareholders’ equity interests in us. Our
Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of
shareholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series,
and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions
of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend
rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption
prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of
holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a
subsequent conversion may dilute the current common shareholders’ interest. Our
Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred
stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, we are
authorized to issue, without shareholder approval, up to 300,000,000 shares of
common stock, of which 133,534,624 shares were outstanding as of December 31,
2005, including shares held by employee benefits trusts.

Provisions in our
articles of incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan, other agreements
and Georgia law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even in
situations that may be viewed as desirable by our shareholders.

Our articles of
incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan, other agreements and the
General Business Corporation Code of the State of Georgia, or Georgia Code,
contain provisions that may delay or prevent an attempt by a third party to
acquire control of our company. For example, our articles of incorporation:

·       Provide for classified
terms for the members of our Board of Directors;

·       Authorize our Board of
Directors to fill vacant directorships or to increase the size of the Board;

·       Do not authorize our
shareholders to remove a director without cause;

·       Do not authorize our
shareholders to cumulate voting in the election of directors; and

·       Authorize
the issuance of preferred stock with such rights, powers and privileges as the
Board of Directors deems appropriate.

In addition, our bylaws limit the ability of
shareholders to bring business before a meeting of shareholders and do not
allow our shareholders to act by written consent.

We are a Georgia corporation and have elected to be
governed by the “business combination” and “fair price” provisions of the
Georgia Code, that could be viewed as having the effect of discouraging an
attempt to obtain control of us. The business combination provision generally
would prohibit us from engaging in various business combination transactions
with any interested shareholder for a period of five years after the date of
the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless
certain designated conditions are met.

The fair price provision generally requires that,
absent Board or shareholder approval of an acquisition or merger, an interested
shareholder seeking to engage in a business combination transaction with us
must pay the remaining shareholders the same price for their shares as was paid
by the interested shareholder to acquire beneficial ownership of 10% or more of
our outstanding voting shares.

We have also implemented a shareholder rights plan,
also called a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party
to acquire our company on a hostile basis.


 16 





These provisions could
also discourage or impede a tender offer, proxy contest or other similar
transactions involving control of us, even if viewed favorably by shareholders.

Risks
Relating to Regulation and Litigation

Compliance with recent amendments to the FCRA have
increased our compliance costs.

The FACT Act, which amended the FCRA, became law in December 2003.
Beginning on December 1, 2004, the FACT Act, among other things, required
us on an annual basis to provide free credit reports to consumers upon request.
These reports may be requested by Internet, telephone or mail through
centralized request facilities which we and other nationwide credit reporting
agencies must establish and support. In addition, subject to final regulations
to be adopted by the FTC, consumers will be entitled to a free credit report
upon request if a report results in the consumer obtaining credit terms less
favorable than those provided to a majority of the credit provider’s customers
(also known as risk-based pricing). The FACT Act also requires us to provide
credit scores to requesting consumers for a reasonable fee, as determined by
the FTC.

The FTC has issued regulations to implement many of
these requirements, including establishment of the centralized request
facilities and development of procedures to phase-in such requests. The
phase-in was completed on September 1, 2005. Additional provisions of the
FACT Act impose requirements designed to reduce consumer identity theft, limit
provision of medical information and require reports to the FTC regarding
consumer complaints. We have modified our procedures and systems to deal with
these and other FACT Act provisions where applicable.

We have incurred
significant compliance costs to implement the FACT Act requirements, and we
expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FTC’s regulations that
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations. The net impact of the free report disclosure and other requirements
of the FACT Act on our business will depend on numerous factors, including
among others the actual demand of consumers for free credit reports; our
ability to increase fees to customers to recover these regulatory costs; our
experience marketing fee-generating products to consumers requesting free
credit file disclosures; the FTC’s final determination of the fee we can charge
for providing credit score disclosures to requesting consumers; the actual cost
of resolving additional credit file and credit score reinvestigation requests
from consumers; and approval of final FTC and Federal Reserve Board rules on
risk-based pricing transactions and other matters.

Changes in the
legislative, regulatory and judicial environments may adversely affect our
ability to collect, manage, aggregate and use data.

Our business involves collection of consumer and
business data and distribution of such information to businesses making credit and
marketing decisions. Consequently, certain of our activities and services are
subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and
Canada, and in those countries within Europe and Latin America where we do
business. For instance, much of the data and services that we provide are
subject to regulation under the FCRA which regulates the use of consumer credit
information and, to a lesser extent, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which regulates
the use of non-public personal information held by financial institutions.

We are also subject to the
U.K.’s Data Protection Act of 1998, which regulates the manner in which we can
use third-party data and recent regulatory limitations relating to use of the
Electoral Roll, one of our key data sources in the U.K. In addition, public
interest in individual privacy rights and the collection, distribution and use
of information about individuals may result in the adoption of new federal,
state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could include increased
compliance requirements and restrictions on the purchase, sale and sharing of
information about consumers for commercial purposes, and have a negative impact
on our ability to collect such information provided by consumers voluntarily.
Future 


 17 





international,
federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to the collection,
management and use of data about individuals, and adverse publicity, judicial
interpretations or potential litigation concerning the commercial use of such
information, may result in substantial regulatory compliance costs, litigation
expense or a loss of revenue. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain
and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary
damages, penalities or injunctive relief against us.

ITEM 1B