Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this report and those described from time to time in our future
reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. As a result of such risks and uncertainties,
we urge you not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of
the date when made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.

 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

 

Detailed information about us is contained
in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports,
and amendments to those reports, that we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. These reports are available free of charge at our website,
www.equifax.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with or furnish such reports to the
SEC. However, our website and any contents thereof should not be considered to be incorporated by reference into this document.
We will furnish copies of such reports free of charge upon written request to Corporate Secretary, Equifax Inc., P.O. Box 4081,
Atlanta, Georgia, 30302.

 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

 

Our business faces a variety of risks and
uncertainties, including those described below, and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or
that we currently deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial results
or results of operations may be adversely impacted. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information
in this Form 10-K.

 



    15
     
    

 

Weakness in consumer lending activity could materially
adversely affect us.

 

Business customers use our credit information
and related analytical services and data to process applications for new credit cards, automobile loans, home and equity loans
and other consumer loans, and to manage their existing credit relationships. Bank and other lenders’ willingness to extend
credit is adversely affected by elevated consumer delinquency and loan losses in a weak economy. Consumer demand for credit (i.e.,
rates of spending and levels of indebtedness) also tends to grow more slowly or decline during periods of economic contraction
or slow economic growth. High or rising rates of unemployment and interest, declines in income, home prices, or investment values,
lower consumer confidence and reduced access to credit adversely affect demand for our products and services, and consequently
our revenue, as consumers may continue to postpone or reduce their spending and use of credit, and lenders may reduce the amount
of credit offered or available.

 

The loss of access to credit and other data from external
sources could harm our ability to provide our products and services.

 

We rely extensively upon data from external
sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data received from customers, strategic partners and
various government and public record sources. This data includes the widespread and voluntary contribution of credit data from
most lenders in the U.S and many other markets as well as the contribution of data under proprietary contractual agreements, such
as employers’ contribution of employment and income data to The Work Number, financial institutions’ contribution of
individual financial data to IXI, telecommunications, cable and utility companies’ contribution of payment and fraud data
to the National Cable, Telecommunications and Utility Exchange, and financial institutions’ contribution of small business
borrowing information to the Small Business Financial Exchange. Our data sources could withdraw their data from us for a variety
of reasons, including legislatively or judicially imposed restrictions on use. Where we currently have exclusive use of data, the
providers of the data sources could elect to make the information available to competitors. We also compete with several of our
third-party data suppliers. If a substantial number of data sources or certain key data sources were to withdraw or be unable to
provide their data, if we were to lose access to data due to government regulation, if we lose exclusive right to the use of data,
or if the collection of data becomes uneconomical, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially
adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenue, net income and earnings per share.

 

Our markets are highly competitive and new product introductions
and pricing strategies being offered by our competitors could decrease our sales and market share or require us to reduce our prices
in a manner that reduces our operating margins.

 

We operate in a number of geographic, product
and service markets that are highly competitive. Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to or that achieve
greater market acceptance than our products and services. The size of our competitors varies across market segments, as do the
resources we have allocated to the segments we target. Therefore, some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial,
technical, marketing or other resources than we do in one or more of our market segments, or overall. As a result, our competitors
may be in a position to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements,
or may devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of products and services. Moreover,
new competitors or alliances among our competitors may emerge and potentially reduce our market share, revenue or margins.

 

We also sell our information to competing
firms, and buy information from certain of our competitors, in order to sell “tri-bureau” and other products, most
notably into the mortgage and direct to consumer markets. Changes in prices between competitors for this information and/or changes
in the design or sale of tri-bureau versus single bureau product offerings may affect our revenue or profitability.

 

Some of our competitors may choose to sell
products competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or may be able to sell products competitive
to ours at lower prices given proprietary ownership of data, technological superiority or economies of scale. Price reductions
by our competitors could negatively impact our margins and results of operations and could also harm our ability to obtain new
customers on favorable terms. Historically, certain of our key products have experienced declines in per unit pricing due to competitive
factors and customer demand. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales,
information technology and development and other costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough to changes in competition or
customer demand, we could experience further reductions in our operating margins.

 



    16
     
    

 

If we do not introduce successful new products and services
in a timely manner, our products and services will become obsolete and our operating results will suffer.

 

We generally sell our products in industries
that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and changing industry standards.
In addition, certain of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. Without the timely introduction of new products,
services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically or commercially obsolete over time, in which case
our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including
our ability to properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully
commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; produce and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate
our offerings from competitor offerings; price our products competitively; anticipate our competitors’ development of new
products, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our product development process.

 

The impact of consolidation in the financial services,
mortgage, retail, telecommunications and other markets is difficult to predict and may harm our business.

 

The financial services, mortgage, retail
and telecommunications industries are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation. Continuation of
the consolidation trends in these and other industries could result in lower average prices for the larger combined entities, lower
combined purchases of our services than were purchased cumulatively by separate entities prior to consolidation or existing competitors
increasing their market share in newly consolidated entities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated industry and cannot
predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or us.

 

Security breaches and other disruptions to our information
technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, and could compromise Company, customer and consumer information,
exposing us to liability which could cause our business and reputation to suffer.

 

In the ordinary course of business, we rely
upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic
information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including business-to-business and business-to-consumer
electronic commerce and internal accounting and financial reporting systems. Additionally, we collect and store sensitive data,
including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our customers, employees,
consumers and suppliers, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these networks and systems,
and of the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business operations and strategy.

 

Despite our substantial investment in security
measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure or those of our third party vendors
and other service providers could be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to
employee error or malfeasance, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware,
power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events.

 

We are regularly the target of attempted
cyber and other security threats and must continuously monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure
to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could
have a security impact. Although we have not experienced any material breach of cybersecurity, if one or more of such events occur,
this potentially could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or
stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could subject us to litigation, significant losses, regulatory
fines, penalties or reputational damage, any of which could have a material effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial
condition or results of operations. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all
losses or failures that may occur. Also, our third party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount
depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention.

 



    17
     
    

 

Dependence on outsourcing certain portions of our supply
and distribution chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. Dependence on outsourced
information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.

 

As part of our efforts to streamline operations
and to reduce operating costs, we have outsourced various components of our application development, information technology, operational
support and administrative functions and will continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. Although we have implemented service
level agreements and have established monitoring controls, if our outsourcing vendors fail to perform their obligations in a timely
manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and support our customers, and our reputation
could suffer. Any failure to perform on the part of these third party providers could impair our ability to operate effectively
and could result in lower future revenue, unexecuted efficiencies and adversely impact our results of operations and our financial
condition. Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty.

 

Changes in interest rates and credit ratings could adversely
affect our cost of capital and net income.

 

Rising interest rates, credit market dislocations
and decisions and actions by credit rating agencies can affect the availability and cost of our funding. Credit rating downgrades
or negative changes to ratings outlooks can increase our cost of capital and hurt our competitive position. Guidance from rating
agencies as to acceptable leverage can affect our returns as well.

 

Our retirement and post retirement
pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our future results of operations and cash flows.

 

We have significant retirement and post
retirement pension plan assets and obligations. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our plan expenses
and funding obligations. Significant decreases in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment
losses on plan assets will increase our funding obligations, and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.

 

Concerns regarding the European debt crisis and market
perception concerning the instability of the euro, the potential reintroduction of individual currencies with the Eurozone, or
the potential dissolution of the euro entirely, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and
financing.

 

As a result of the debt crisis, concerns
have been raised regarding the debt burden of certain countries using the euro as their currency and their ability to meet future
financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse
economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual
currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency
entirely. Should the euro be dissolved entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations
would be determined by laws in effect at such time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related
issues, could adversely affect the value of the Company's euro-denominated assets and obligations, particularly in Portugal, Spain
and Ireland, and the future profitability or even viability of our operations in those countries. In addition, concerns over the
effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse impact on global economies
and capital markets generally, and more specifically on the Company's business in Europe and the ability of the Company and its
customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if
at all, and on the demand for our products and services.

 

The acquisition, integration or divestiture of businesses
by us may not produce the desired financial or operating results.

 

During 2012, we completed the acquisition
of various businesses in separate transactions, including certain business assets and the operations of Computer Sciences Corporation
(“CSC Credit Services”) and several smaller international acquisitions. Expected benefits, synergies and growth from
these initiatives may not materialize as planned. We may have difficulty assimilating new businesses and their products, services,
technologies and personnel into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management
and workforce, increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Also, we may
not be able to retain key management and other critical employees after an acquisition.

 



    18
     
    



 

Our customers and we are subject to various current governmental
regulations, and could be affected by new laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses,
and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.

 

Our businesses are subject to various significant
international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to privacy and consumer data protection, health
and safety, tax, labor and environmental regulations. See “Item 1. Business – Information Security and Government Regulation”
in this Form 10-K. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may
be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure
by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations
or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our
products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. 

 

These laws and regulations (as well as actions
that may be taken by legislatures and regulatory bodies in other countries) could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities
we might otherwise consider engaging in, impose additional costs on us, result in significant loss of revenue, impact the value
of assets we hold, or otherwise significantly adversely affect our business.

 

As in the United States, legislation regarding
the availability or use of consumer and commercial data has been, and continues to be, proposed from time to time in various foreign
countries in which we have operations, most notably in certain Latin American and European Union countries. These proposals have
in some cases had the potential to expand the availability or uses of information and in other cases had the potential to restrict
the availability or use of information we currently maintain. Accordingly, such possible regulatory action could either increase
or decrease our potential revenue and profits.

 

We derive a portion of our revenue from
direct and indirect sales to U.S., state, local and foreign governments and their respective agencies. Such contracts are subject
to various procurement laws and regulations, and contract provisions relating to their formation, administration and performance.
Failure to comply with these laws, regulations or provisions in our government contracts could result in the imposition of various
civil and criminal penalties, termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, or suspension of future
government contracting. If our government contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability
to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our business could suffer.

 

Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual
property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services.

 

From time to time, third parties may claim
that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response
to such claims on a case by case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly
and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert
our management and key personnel from our business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to
enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available under acceptable terms or at all, or could subject
us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services. Our intellectual
property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of intellectual
property infringement. In certain of our businesses we rely on third party intellectual property licenses and we cannot ensure
that these licenses will be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all.

 



    19
     
    

 

Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and
we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.

 

Our success increasingly depends on our
proprietary technology. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, database rights, trademarks
and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. The extent
to which such rights can be protected varies in different jurisdictions. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights
successfully our competitive position may suffer which could harm our operating results. Our pending patent applications, and our
pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope
of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights
may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.

 

We may need to spend significant resources
monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. Our competitive
position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. In some
circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for
other business reasons. In addition, competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights
or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable
or limited in some countries which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenue.

 

Economic, political and other risks associated with international
sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations.

 

Sales outside the U.S. comprise 24% of our
net operating revenue and, as a result, our business is subject to various risks associated with doing business internationally.
We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent an increasing portion of our total revenue.
In addition, many of our employees, suppliers, job functions and facilities are increasingly located outside the U.S. Accordingly,
our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors including changes in specific country or region political, economic
or other conditions; trade protection measures; data privacy and consumer protection regulations; difficulty in staffing and managing
widespread operations; differing labor, intellectual property protection and technology standards and regulations; business licensing
requirements or other requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business
in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from entering certain markets, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions;
difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner; implementation of exchange controls;
and geopolitical instability, including terrorism and war.

 

We earn revenue, pay expenses, own assets
and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including among others the British pound, the Canadian
dollar, the Brazilian real, the Argentine peso, the Chilean peso and the Euro. Because our consolidated financial statements are
presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenue, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars
at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the
U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet
items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might
be offset by strengths in others over time. We generally do not mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates,
although we may from time to time through forward contracts or other derivative instruments hedge a portion of our translational
foreign currency exposure or exchange rate risks associated with material transactions which are denominated in a foreign currency.
The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements
in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, may materially affect our consolidated financial
results.

 

Additionally, we must comply with complex
foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws
prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, and anti-competition regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations
could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer products
in one or more countries, and could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain employees, our international
operations, our business and operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance
with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents, as well as those companies
to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not violate our policies.

 

 



    20
     
    

 

Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain
and hire key personnel.

 

Our future success depends partly on the
continued service of our key development, sales, marketing, executive and administrative personnel. Additionally, increased retention
risk exists in certain key areas of our operations that require specialized skills, such as maintenance of certain legacy computer
systems, data security experts and analytical modelers. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we
will not be able to maintain or expand our business. We believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate.
However, there is intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit,
and it may become more difficult to retain our key employees.

 

Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially
adversely affect us.

 

We are subject to various legal proceedings
and claims, including putative class action claims, that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet
resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. We may
be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially adversely affect a portion of
our business and might materially affect our financial condition and operating results.

 

Changes in income tax laws can significantly impact our
net income.

 

Federal and state governments in the U.S.
as well as a number of other governments around the world are currently facing significant fiscal pressures and have considered
or may consider changes to their tax laws for revenue raising or economic competiveness reasons. Changes to tax laws can have immediate
impacts, either favorable or unfavorable, on our results of operations and cash flows, and may impact our competitive position
versus certain competitors who are domiciled in other jurisdictions and subject to different tax laws.

 

We are subject to a variety of other general risks and
uncertainties inherent in doing business.

 

In addition to the specific factors discussed
above, we are subject to risks that are inherent to doing business. These include growth rates, general economic and political
conditions, customer satisfaction with the quality of our services, costs of obtaining insurance, changes in unemployment rates,
and other events that can impact revenue and the cost of doing business.

 

ITEM 1B