Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this report and those described from time to time in our future reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. As a result of such risks and uncertainties, we urge you not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date when made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.

 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

 

Detailed information about us is contained in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports, and amendments to those reports, that we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. These reports are available free of charge at our website, www.equifax.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with or furnish such reports to the SEC. However, our website and any contents thereof should not be considered to be incorporated by reference into this document. We will furnish copies of such reports free of charge upon written request to Corporate Secretary, Equifax Inc., P.O. Box 4081, Atlanta, Georgia,
30302.

 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

 

Our business faces a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those described below, and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial results or results of operations may be adversely impacted. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K.

 

Weakness in consumer lending activity could materially adversely affect us.

 

Business customers use our credit information and related analytical services and data to process applications for new credit cards, automobile loans, home and equity loans and other consumer loans, and to manage their existing credit relationships. Bank and other lenders’ willingness to extend credit is adversely affected by elevated consumer delinquency and loan losses in a weak economy. Consumer demand for credit (i.e., rates of spending and levels of indebtedness) also tends to grow more slowly or decline during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth. High or rising rates of unemployment and interest, declines in income, home prices, or investment values, lower consumer confidence and
reduced access to credit adversely affect demand for our products and services, and consequently our revenue, as consumers may continue to postpone or reduce their spending and use of credit, and lenders may reduce the amount of credit offered or available.

 



  



14







  




The loss of access to credit and other data from external sources could harm our ability to provide our products and services.

 

We rely extensively upon data from external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data received from customers, strategic partners and various government and public record sources. This includes the widespread and voluntary contribution of credit data from most lenders in the U.S and many other markets as well as the contribution of data under proprietary contractual agreements, such as employers’ contribution of employment and income data to The Work Number, financial institutions’ contribution of individual financial data to IXI, and financial institutions’ contribution of small business
borrowing information to the Small Business Financial Exchange. Our data sources could withdraw their data from us for a variety of reasons, including legislatively or judicially imposed restrictions on use. We also compete with several of our third-party data suppliers. If a substantial number of data sources or certain key data sources were to withdraw or be unable to provide their data, if we were to lose access to data due to government regulation, or if the collection of data becomes uneconomical, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenue, net income and earnings per share.

 

Our markets are highly competitive and new product introductions and pricing strategies being offered by our competitors could decrease our sales and market share or require us to reduce our prices in a manner that reduces our operating margins.

 

We operate in a number of geographic, product and service markets that are highly competitive. Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. The size of our competitors varies across market segments, as do the resources we have allocated to the segments we target. Therefore, some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources than we do in one or more of our market segments, or overall, as is the case in Brazil and the U.K., markets where we face a larger competitor. As a result, our competitors may be in a position to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging
technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of products and services. Moreover, new competitors or alliances among our competitors may emerge and potentially reduce our market share, revenue or margins.

 

Some of our competitors may choose to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or may be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices given proprietary ownership of data, technological superiority or economies of scale. Price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins and results of operations and could also harm our ability to obtain new customers on favorable terms. Historically, certain of our key products have experienced declines in per unit pricing due to competitive factors and customer demand. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, information technology and
development and other costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough to changes in competition or customer demand, we could experience further reductions in our operating margins.

 

If we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner, our products and services will become obsolete and our operating results will suffer.

 

We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and changing industry standards. In addition, certain of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically or commercially obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to properly identify customer needs; innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; successfully commercialize new
technologies in a timely manner; produce and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitor offerings; price our products competitively; anticipate our competitors’ development of new products, services or technological innovations; and control product quality in our product development process.

 



  



15







  




The impact of consolidation in the financial services, mortgage, retail, telecommunications and other markets is difficult to predict and may harm our business.

 

The financial services, mortgage, retail and telecommunications industries are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation. Continuation of the consolidation trends in these and other industries could result in lower average prices for the larger combined entities, lower combined purchases of our services than were purchased cumulatively by separate entities prior to consolidation, or existing competitors increasing their market share in newly consolidated entities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are not retained or chosen as a service provider. We may not be able to compete successfully in an increasingly
consolidated industry and cannot predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or us. 

 

If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted.

 

We are highly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information.

 

Many of our products are accessed through the Internet, including our consumer and commercial information services. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services via the Internet may affect us or our industry and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services.

 

Dependence on outsourcing certain portions of our supply and distribution chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.

 

As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to reduce operating costs, we have outsourced various components of our application development, information technology, operational support and administrative functions and will continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. Although we have implemented service level agreements and have established monitoring controls, if our outsourcing vendors fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and support our customers, and our reputation could suffer. Any failure to perform on the part of these third party providers could impair our ability to operate effectively and could result in
lower future revenue, unexecuted efficiencies and adversely impact our results of operations and our stock price. Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty.

 

If we experience system failures, the delivery of our products and services to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation and result in the loss of customers.

 

Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Some of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers and large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from power disruption, fire, flood, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. The steps we have taken and are taking to prevent a system failure, including backup disaster recovery systems,
may not be effective. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Also, our third party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention.

 



  



16







  




Interest rates and credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of capital and net income.

 

Rising interest rates, credit market dislocations and decisions and actions by credit rating agencies can affect the availability and cost of our funding. Credit rating downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks can increase our cost of capital and hurt our competitive position. Guidance from rating agencies as to acceptable leverage can affect our returns as well.

 

We may suffer adverse financial consequences if Computer Sciences Corporation requires us to purchase its credit reporting business at a time when the public equity or debt markets or other financing conditions are unfavorable to us.

 

In 1988, we entered into an agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation, or CSC, and certain of its affiliates under which CSC’s credit reporting agencies utilize our computerized credit database services. Under this agreement, CSC has an option, exercisable at any time, to sell its credit reporting business to us. The option expires in August 2013. The option exercise price will be determined by an appraisal process and would be due in cash within 180 days after the exercise of the option. We estimate that if CSC were to exercise the option at December 31, 2010, the option price would have been approximately $625 million to $700 million. This estimate is based solely on our internal analysis of the value of
the business, current market conditions and other factors, all of which are subject to constant change. Therefore, the actual option exercise price could be materially higher or lower than the estimated amount. If CSC were to exercise its option, we would have to obtain additional sources of funding. We believe that this funding would be available from sources such as additional bank lines of credit and the issuance of public debt and/or equity. However, the availability and terms of any such capital financing would be subject to a number of factors, including credit or equity market conditions, general economic conditions and our financial performance and condition. Because we do not control the timing of the exercise, if any, by CSC of its option, we could be required to seek such financing and increase our debt levels at a time when market or other conditions are
unfavorable.

 

The acquisition, integration or divestiture of businesses by us may not produce the desired financial or operating results.




During 2010, we completed the acquisition of various businesses in separate transactions, including Anakam, Inc. and several international acquisitions, and divested our APPRO loan origination software and Direct Marketing Services businesses to align with our strategic focus. Expected benefits, synergies and growth from these initiatives may not materialize as planned. We may have difficulty assimilating new businesses and their products, services, technologies, and personnel into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Also, we may not be able to
retain key management and other critical employees after an acquisition.

 

Our customers and we are subject to various current governmental regulations, and could be affected by new laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.

 

Our businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to privacy and consumer data protection, health and safety, tax, labor and environmental regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many
of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products.

 

Enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations that may be issued by U.S. regulators implementing such legislation (as well as actions that may be taken by legislatures and regulatory bodies in other countries) could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in, impose additional costs on us, result in significant loss of revenue, impact the value of assets we hold, or otherwise significantly adversely affect our businesses.




  



17







  




We also have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities, including through the Performance Assessment Network subsidiary of our TALX business and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative
penalties.

 

Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services.

 

From time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case by case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available under acceptable terms or at all, or could subject us to significant damages or
to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of intellectual property infringement. In certain of our businesses we rely on third party intellectual property licenses and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all.

 

Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.

 

Our success increasingly depends on our proprietary technology. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, database rights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. The extent to which such rights can be protected varies in different jurisdictions. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully our competitive position may suffer which could harm our operating results. Our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or
trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.

 

We may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. Our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. In addition, competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries
which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenue.

 

Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations.

 

Sales outside the U.S. make up approximately 27% of our net operating revenue and, as a result, our business is subject to various risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent an increasing portion of our total revenue. In addition, many of our employees, suppliers, job functions and facilities are increasingly located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors including changes in specific country or region political, economic or other conditions; trade protection measures; data privacy and consumer protection regulations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread
operations; differing labor, intellectual property protection and technology standards and regulations; business licensing requirements or other requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from entering certain markets, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner; and geopolitical instability, including terrorism and war.

 



  



18







  




We earn revenue, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including among others the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Brazilian real, the Chilean peso and the Euro. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenue, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of
the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. We generally do not mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates, although we may from time to time through forward contracts or other derivative instruments hedge a portion of our translational foreign currency exposure or exchange rate risks associated with material transactions which are denominated in a foreign currency. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, may materially affect our consolidated financial results.

 

In many foreign countries, particularly those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the newly passed but not yet implemented U.K. Bribery Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation.

 

Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel.

 

Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key development, sales, marketing, executive and administrative personnel. Additionally, increased retention risk exists in certain key areas of our operations that require specialized skills, such as maintenance of legacy computer systems and analytical modelers. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our business. We believe our pay levels are competitive within the regions that we operate. However, there is intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit, and it may become more difficult to retain our key
employees.

 

Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially affect us.

 

We are subject to legal proceedings and claims, including putative class action claims, that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. We may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially affect our financial condition and operating results.

 

Changes in income tax laws can significantly impact our net income.




Federal and state governments in the U.S. as well as a number of other governments around the world are currently facing significant fiscal pressures and have considered or may consider changes to their tax laws for revenue raising or economic competiveness reasons. Changes to tax laws can have immediate impacts, either favorable or unfavorable, on our results of operations and cash flows, and may impact our competitive position versus certain competitors who are domiciled in other jurisdictions and subject to different tax laws.




We are subject to a variety of other general risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business.




In addition to the specific factors discussed above, we are subject to risks that are inherent to doing business. These include growth rates, general economic and political conditions, customer satisfaction with the quality of our services, costs of obtaining insurance, changes in unemployment, and other events that can impact revenue and the cost of doing business.




  



19







  



 

ITEM 1B