Item 1A of this report and
    “Introduction” in the MD&A for cautionary
    statements that accompany those forward-looking statements and
    identify important factors that could cause results to differ.
    Readers should carefully review those cautionary statements as
    they identify important factors that could cause results to
    differ, or that otherwise could impact Edison International or
    its subsidiaries.


 


    Additional information about risks and uncertainties, including
    more detail about the factors described in this report, is
    contained throughout this report, in the MD&A that appears
    in the Annual Report, the relevant portions of which are filed
    as Exhibit 13 to this report, and which is incorporated by
    reference into Part II, Item 7 of this report, and in
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Readers are urged to
    read this entire report, including the information incorporated
    by reference, and carefully consider the risks, uncertainties
    and other factors that affect Edison International’s
    business. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date
    they are made and Edison International assumes no duty to
    publicly update or revise forward-looking statements. Readers
    should review future reports filed by Edison International with
    the SEC.


 


    Except when otherwise stated, references to each of Edison
    International, SCE, EMG, EME or Edison Capital mean each such
    company with its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
    References to “Edison International (parent)” or
    “parent company” mean Edison International on a
    stand-alone basis, not consolidated with its subsidiaries.



    
    1



Table of Contents





    GLOSSARY


 


    When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of
    this report, they have the meanings indicated below.


 




     	
     	
     	





    AB



 


    Assembly Bill





    ACC



 


    Arizona Corporation Commission





    Ameren



 


    Ameren Corporation





    AFUDC



 


    allowance for funds used during construction





    APS



 


    Arizona Public Service Company





    ARO(s)



 


    asset retirement obligation(s)





    Brooklyn Navy Yard



 


    Brooklyn Navy Yard Cogeneration Partners, L.P.





    Btu



 


    British Thermal units





    CAA



 


    Clean Air Act





    CAIR



 


    Clean Air Interstate Rule





    CAMR



 


    Clean Air Mercury Rule





    CARB



 


    California Air Resources Board





    Commonwealth Edison



 


    Commonwealth Edison Company





    CDWR



 


    California Department of Water Resources





    CEC



 


    California Energy Commission





    CONE



 


    Cost of new entry





    CPS



 


    Combined Pollutant Standard





    CPSD



 


    Consumer Protection and Safety Division





    CPUC



 


    California Public Utilities Commission





    CRRs



 


    congestion revenue rights





    D.C. District Court



 


    U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia





    DOE



 


    United States Department of Energy





    DOJ



 


    Department of Justice





    DPV2



 


    Devers-Palo Verde II





    DRA



 


    Division of Ratepayer Advocates





    DWP



 


    Los Angeles Department of Water & Power





    EITF



 


    Emerging Issues Task Force





    EITF
    No. 01-8



 


    EITF Issue No. 01-8, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains
    a Lease





    EIA



 


    Energy Information Administration





    EME



 


    Edison Mission Energy





    EME Homer City



 


    EME Homer City Generation L.P.





    EMG



 


    Edison Mission Group Inc.





    EMMT



 


    Edison Mission Marketing & Trading, Inc.





    EPAct 2005



 


    Energy Policy Act of 2005





    EPS



 


    earnings per share





    ERRA



 


    energy resource recovery account





    Exelon Generation



 


    Exelon Generation Company LLC





    FASB



 


    Financial Accounting Standards Board





    FERC



 


    Federal Energy Regulatory Commission





    FGD



 


    flue gas desulfurization





    FGIC



 


    Financial Guarantee Insurance Company





    
    2



Table of Contents






     	
     	
     	





    FIN 39-1



 


    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 39-1,
    Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39





    FIN 46(R)



 


    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46,
    Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities





    FIN 46(R)-6



 


    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46(R)-6,
    Determining Variability to be Considered in Applying FIN 46(R)





    FIN 47



 


    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47,
    Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations





    FIN 48



 


    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,
    Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an
    interpretation of FAS 109





    Fitch



 


    Fitch Ratings





    FPA



 


    Federal Power Act





    FSP



 


    FASB Staff Position





    FSP
    FAS 13-2



 


    FASB Staff Position FAS 13-2, Accounting for a Change or
    Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income
    Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction





    FSP
    SFAS 142-3



 


    FASB Staff Position No. SFAS 142-3, Determination of the Useful
    Life of Intangible Assets





    FTRs



 


    firm transmission rights





    GAAP



 


    general accepted accounting principles





    GHG



 


    greenhouse gas





    Global Settlement



 


    A settlement that has been negotiated between Edison
    International and the IRS, which, if consummated, would resolve
    asserted deficiencies related to Edison International’s
    deferral of income taxes associated with certain of its
    cross-border, leveraged leases and all other outstanding tax
    disputes for open tax years 1986 through 2002, including certain
    affirmative claims for unrecognized tax benefits. There can be
    no assurance about the timing of such settlement or that a final
    settlement will be ultimately consummated.





    GRC



 


    General Rate Case





    GWh



 


    gigawatt-hours





    Illinois EPA



 


    Illinois Environmental Protection Agency





    Illinois Plants



 


    EME’s largest power plants (fossil fuel) located in Illinois





    Investor-Owned Utilities



 


    SCE, SDG&E and PG&E





    IPM



 


    a consortium comprised of International Power plc (70%) and
    Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (30)%





    IRS



 


    Internal Revenue Service





    ISO



 


    California Independent System Operator





    kWh(s)



 


    kilowatt-hour(s)





    LIBOR



 


    London Interbank Offered Rate





    MD&A



 


    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations





    MECIBV



 


    MEC International B.V.





    MEHC



 


    Mission Energy Holding Company





    Midland Cogen



 


    Midland Cogeneration Venture





    Midwest Generation



 


    Midwest Generation, LLC





    MMBTU



 


    million British units





    MISO



 


    Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator





    Mohave



 


    Mohave Generating Station





    Moody’s



 


    Moody’s Investors Service





    3



Table of Contents






     	
     	
     	





    MRTU



 


    Market Redesign Technology Upgrade





    MW



 


    megawatts





    MWh



 


    megawatt-hours





    NAPP



 


    Northern Appalachian





    Ninth Circuit



 


    United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit





    NOV



 


    notice of violation





    NOx



 


    nitrogen oxide





    NRC



 


    Nuclear Regulatory Commission





    NSR



 


    New Source Review





    NYISO



 


    New York Independent System Operator





    PADEP



 


    Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection





    Palo Verde



 


    Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station





    PBOP(s)



 


    postretirement benefits other than pension(s)





    PBR



 


    performance-based ratemaking





    PG&E



 


    Pacific Gas & Electric Company





    PJM



 


    PJM Interconnection, LLC





    POD



 


    Presiding Officer’s Decision





    PRB



 


    Powder River Basin





    PURPA



 


    Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978





    PX



 


    California Power Exchange





    QF(s)



 


    qualifying facility(ies)





    RGGI



 


    Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative





    RICO



 


    Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization





    ROE



 


    return on equity





    RPM



 


    reliability pricing model





    S&P



 


    Standard & Poor’s





    SAB



 


    Staff Accounting Bulletin





    San Onofre



 


    San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station





    SCAQMD



 


    South Coast Air Quality Management District





    SCE



 


    Southern California Edison Company





    SCR



 


    selective catalytic reduction





    SDG&E



 


    San Diego Gas & Electric





    SFAS



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards issued by the FASB





    SFAS No. 71



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, Accounting
    for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation





    SFAS No. 98



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 98,
    Sale-Leaseback Transactions Involving Real Estate





    SFAS No. 115



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting
    for certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities





    SFAS No. 123(R)



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),
    Share-Based Payment (revised 2004)





    SFAS No. 133



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting
    for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities





    SFAS No. 141(R)



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141(R), Business
    Combinations





    SFAS No. 142



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill
    and Other Intangible Assets





    4



Table of Contents






     	
     	
     	





    SFAS No. 143



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, Accounting
    for Asset Retirement Obligations





    SFAS No. 144



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting
    for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets





    SFAS No. 157



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value
    Measurements





    SFAS No. 158



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,
    Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
    Postretirement Plans





    SFAS No. 159



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair
    Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities





    SFAS No. 160



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160,
    Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements





    SFAS No. 161



 


    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161, Disclosures
    about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an
    amendment of FASB Statement No. 133





    SIP(s)



 


    State Implementation Plan(s)





    SNCR



 


    selective non-catalytic reduction





    SO2



 


    sulfur dioxide





    SRP



 


    Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District





    the Tribes



 


    Navajo Nation and Hopi Tribe





    TURN



 


    The Utility Reform Network





    US EPA



 


    United States Environmental Protection Agency





    VIE(s)



 


    variable interest entity(ies)









    5



Table of Contents





    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1. 

    
    Business





 



    BUSINESS
    OF EDISON INTERNATIONAL


 


    Edison International was incorporated on April 20, 1987,
    under the laws of the State of California for the purpose of
    becoming the parent holding company of SCE, a California public
    utility corporation, and of nonutility companies. SCE comprises
    the largest portion of the assets and revenue of Edison
    International. The principal nonutility companies are: EME,
    which is an independent power producer engaged in the business
    of developing, acquiring, owning or leasing, and selling energy
    and capacity from independent power production facilities and
    also conducts hedging and energy trading activities in power
    markets open to competition; and Edison Capital, which has
    investments in energy and infrastructure projects worldwide and
    in affordable housing projects located throughout the United
    States. Beginning in 2006, EME and Edison Capital have been
    presented on a consolidated basis as EMG in order to reflect the
    integration of management and personnel at EME and Edison
    Capital.


 


    At December 31, 2008, Edison International and its
    subsidiaries had an aggregate of 18,291 full-time
    employees, of which 52 were employed directly by Edison
    International.


 


    The principal executive offices of Edison International are
    located at 2244 Walnut Grove Avenue, P.O. Box 976,
    Rosemead, California 91770, and the telephone number is
    (626) 302-2222.


 


    Edison International’s internet website address is
    http://www.edisoninvestor.com.
    Edison International makes available, free of charge on its
    internet website, its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    Proxy Statement and amendments to those reports filed or
    furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
    Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after Edison
    International electronically files such material with, or
    furnishes it to, the SEC. Such reports are also available on the
    SEC’s internet website at
    http://www.sec.gov.
    The information contained in our website, or connected to that
    site, is not incorporated by reference into this report.


 


    Edison International has three business segments for financial
    reporting purposes: an electric utility operation segment (SCE),
    a nonutility power generation segment (EME), and a financial
    services provider segment (Edison Capital). Financial
    information about these segments and about geographic areas, for
    fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006, is contained in Note 16
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and incorporated
    herein by this reference. Additional information about each of
    these business segments appears below under the headings
    “Business of Southern California Edison Company” and
    “Business of Edison Mission Group Inc.”


 



    Regulation
    of Edison International


 


    A comprehensive energy bill was enacted in August 2005. Known as
    “EPAct 2005,” this comprehensive legislation included
    provisions for the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company
    Act (PUHCA) 1935, amendments to PURPA, merger review reform, the
    introduction of new regulations regarding transmission operation
    improvements, FERC authority to impose civil penalties for
    violation of its regulations, transmission rate reform,
    incentives for various generation technologies, transmission
    projects and the extension (originally through December 31,
    2007, and subsequently extended by the American Recovery and
    Reinvestment Act of 2009 for projects placed in service by
    December 31, 2012) of production tax credits for wind
    and other specified types of generation. The FERC finalized
    rules to implement the Congressionally mandated repeal of PUHCA
    1935 that became effective February 8, 2006, and the
    enactment of PUHCA 2005. PUHCA 2005 is primarily a “books
    and records access” statute and does not give the FERC any
    new substantive authority under the Federal Power Act or Natural
    Gas Act. The FERC also issued final rules to implement the
    electric company merger and acquisition provisions of EPAct 2005.


 


    On July 20, 2006, the FERC certified the North American
    Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) as its Electric
    Reliability Organization to establish and enforce reliability
    standards for the bulk power system. On March 16, 2007, the
    FERC issued a final rule approving reliability standards
    proposed by the NERC. The final



    
    6



Table of Contents




    rule became effective, and compliance with these standards
    became mandatory, on June 18, 2007. Both SCE and EME
    believe that they have taken all steps to be compliant with
    current NERC reliability standards that apply to their
    operations. Edison International anticipates that the FERC will
    adopt more stringent reliability standards in the future. The
    financial impact of complying with future standards cannot be
    determined at this time.


 


    Edison International is not a public utility under the laws of
    the State of California and is not subject to regulation as such
    by the CPUC. See “Business of Southern California Edison
    Company — Regulation of SCE” below for a
    description of the regulation of SCE by the CPUC. The CPUC
    decision authorizing SCE to reorganize into a holding company
    structure, however, contains certain conditions, which, among
    other things: (1) ensure the CPUC access to books and
    records of Edison International and its affiliates which relate
    to transactions with SCE; (2) require Edison International
    and its subsidiaries to employ accounting and other procedures
    and controls to ensure full review by the CPUC and to protect
    against subsidization of nonutility activities by SCE’s
    customers; (3) require that all transfers of market,
    technological, or similar data from SCE to Edison International
    or its affiliates be made at market value; (4) preclude SCE
    from guaranteeing any obligations of Edison International
    without prior written consent from the CPUC; (5) provide
    for royalty payments to be paid by Edison International or its
    subsidiaries in connection with the transfer of product rights,
    patents, copyrights, or similar legal rights from SCE; and
    (6) prevent Edison International and its subsidiaries from
    providing certain facilities and equipment to SCE except through
    competitive bidding. In addition, the decision provides that SCE
    shall maintain a balanced capital structure in accordance with
    prior CPUC decisions, that SCE’s dividend policy shall
    continue to be established by SCE’s Board of Directors as
    though SCE were a stand-alone utility company, and that the
    capital requirements of SCE, as determined to be necessary to
    meet SCE’s service obligations, shall be given first
    priority by the boards of directors of Edison International and
    SCE.


 



    Environmental
    Matters Affecting Edison International


 


    Because Edison International does not own or operate any assets,
    except the stock of its subsidiaries, it does not have any
    direct environmental obligations or liabilities. However,
    legislative and regulatory activities by federal, state, and
    local authorities in the United States result in the imposition
    of numerous restrictions on the operation of existing facilities
    by Edison International’s subsidiaries, on the timing,
    cost, location, design, construction, and operation of new
    facilities by Edison International’s subsidiaries, and on
    the cost of mitigating the effect of past operations on the
    environment. These laws and regulations, relating to air and
    water pollution, waste management, hazardous chemical use, noise
    abatement, land use, aesthetics, nuclear control, and climate
    change, substantially affect future planning and will continue
    to require modifications of existing facilities and operating
    procedures by Edison International’s subsidiaries.


 


    Edison International believes that SCE and EME are in
    substantial compliance with environmental regulatory
    requirements. However, possible future developments, such as the
    promulgation of more stringent environmental laws and
    regulations, future proceedings that may be initiated by
    environmental and other regulatory authorities, cases in which
    new theories of liability are recognized, and settlements agreed
    to by other companies that establish precedent or expectations
    for the power industry, could affect the costs and the manner in
    which these subsidiaries conduct their businesses and could
    require substantial additional capital or operational
    expenditures or the ceasing of operations at certain of their
    facilities. There is no assurance that the financial position
    and results of operations of the subsidiaries would not be
    materially adversely affected. SCE and EME are unable to predict
    the precise extent to which additional laws and regulations may
    affect their operations and capital expenditure requirements.


 


    Typically, environmental laws and regulations require a lengthy
    and complex process for obtaining licenses, permits and
    approvals prior to construction, operation or modification of a
    project. Meeting all the necessary requirements can delay or
    sometimes prevent the completion of a proposed project as well
    as require extensive modifications to existing projects, which
    may involve significant capital or operational expenditures.
    Furthermore, if any of Edison International’s subsidiaries
    fails to comply with applicable environmental laws, it may be
    subject to injunctive relief, penalties and fines imposed by
    federal and state regulatory authorities.



    
    7



Table of Contents




    Edison International’s projected environmental capital
    expenditures and additional information about environmental
    matters affecting Edison International appear in the MD&A
    under the heading “Other Developments —
    Environmental Matters” and in Note 6 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements under “Environmental
    Remediation.” For details about the environmental
    liabilities and other business risks arising from environmental
    regulation of SCE and EME, see “Business of Southern
    California Edison Company — Environmental Matters
    Affecting SCE” and “Business of Edison Mission Group
    Inc. — Environmental Matters Affecting EME.”


 


    The principal environmental laws and regulations affecting
    Edison International’s business are identified below.


 



    Climate
    Change


 



    Federal
    Legislative Initiatives


 


    To date, the U.S. has pursued a voluntary GHG emissions
    reduction program to meet its obligations as a signatory to the
    UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. As a result of
    increased attention to climate change in the U.S., however,
    numerous bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress
    that would reduce (and/or tax) GHG emissions in the
    U.S. Enactment of climate change legislation within the
    next several years now seems likely. See “Other
    Developments — Environmental Matters —
    Climate Change — Federal Legislative Initiatives”
    in the MD&A for further discussion.


 



    Regional
    Initiatives


 


    A number of regional initiatives have been undertaken or are in
    process related to GHG emissions. Implementing regulations for
    such regional initiatives are likely to vary from state to state
    and may be more stringent and costly than federal legislative
    proposals currently being debated in Congress. It cannot yet be
    determined whether or to what extent any federal legislative
    system would seek to preempt regional or state initiatives,
    although such preemption would greatly simplify compliance and
    eliminate regulatory duplication. See “Other
    Developments — Environmental Matters —
    Climate Change — Regional Initiatives” in the
    MD&A for further discussion.


 



    State-Specific
    Legislation


 


    In September 2006, California enacted two laws regarding GHG
    emissions. The first, known as AB 32 or the California Global
    Warming Solutions Act of 2006, establishes a comprehensive
    program to achieve reductions of GHG emissions. AB 32 requires
    the CARB to develop regulations which may include market-based
    compliance mechanisms targeted to reduce California’s GHG
    emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. The CARB’s mandatory
    program will take effect commencing in 2012 and will implement
    incremental reductions so that GHG emissions will be reduced to
    1990 levels by 2020. See “Other Developments —
    Environmental Matters — State-Specific
    Legislation” in the MD&A for further discussion.


 


    California law also currently requires SCE to increase its
    procurement of renewable resources by at least 1% of its annual
    retail electricity sales per year so that 20% of its annual
    electricity sales are procured from renewable resources by no
    later than December 31, 2010. For additional discussion of
    renewable procurement standards, see “Southern California
    Edison Company — SCE: Regulatory Matters —
    Procurement of Renewable Resources” in the MD&A.
    Additionally, the AB 32 scoping plan suggests a 33% by 2025
    renewables portfolio standard be adopted. See “Other
    Developments — Environmental Matters —
    Climate Change — State Specific Legislation” in
    the MD&A for further discussion.


 


    In addition, the CPUC is addressing climate change-related
    issues in other regulatory proceedings. In 2007, the CPUC
    expanded the scope of its GHG rulemaking to include GHG
    emissions associated with the transmission, storage, and
    distribution of natural gas in California. This proceeding could
    affect SCE as a natural gas customer.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Litigation
    Developments


 


    Climate change regulation may also be affected by litigation in
    federal and state courts, as well as actions by licensing
    authorities.


 


    Information regarding these developments appears in the
    MD&A under the heading “Other Developments —
    Environmental Matters — Climate Change —
    Litigation Developments.”


 



    Emissions
    Data Reporting


 


    SCE is a member of the California Climate Action Registry
    (CCAR), a non-profit, voluntary membership organization
    established by state law to allow members to report and certify
    their greenhouse gas emissions. SCE has been reporting annually
    to the CCAR since 2002. SCE’s 2007, independently certified
    GHG emissions, as reported to the CCAR were approximately
    6.8 million metric tons from SCE-owned generation.
    EME’s 2007, not independently verified, GHG emissions were
    approximately 47.4 million metric tons.


 


    Edison International became a founding reporter to The Climate
    Registry, formed in May 2008. The Climate Registry is a
    multi-national organization, which allows organizations to
    voluntarily inventory, verify, and publicly report their GHG
    emissions. Both SCE and EME will be filing verified emissions
    information for 2008 in June 2009 with The Climate Registry.
    Both SCE’s and EME’s reported emissions are pro-rated
    to their ownership interests in the emitting facilities.


 



    Responses
    to Energy Demands and Future GHG Emission Constraints


 


    Irrespective of the outcome of federal legislative
    deliberations, Edison International believes that substantial
    limitations on GHG emissions are inevitable, through increased
    costs, mandatory emission limits or other mechanisms, and that
    demand for energy from renewable sources will also continue to
    increase. As a result, SCE and EME are utilizing their
    experience in developing and managing a variety of energy
    generation systems to create a generation profile, using sources
    such as wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and small hydro plants,
    that will be adaptable to a variety of regulatory and energy use
    environments. SCE leads the nation in renewable power delivery.
    Its renewables portfolio of owned and procured sources currently
    consists of: 1,136 MW from wind, 906 MW from
    geothermal, 356 MW from solar, 178 MW from biomass,
    and 200 MW from small hydro.


 


    SCE has developed and promoted several energy efficiency and
    demand response initiatives in the residential market, including
    an ongoing meter replacement program to help reduce peak energy
    demand; a rebate program to encourage customers to invest in
    more efficient appliances; subsidies for purchases of energy
    efficient lighting products; appliance recycling programs;
    widely publicized tips to our customers for saving energy; and a
    voluntary demand response program which offers customers
    financial incentives to reduce their electricity use. SCE is
    also replacing its electro-mechanical grid control systems with
    computerized devices that allow more effective grid management.


 


    In April 2008, the CPUC authorized SCE to spend approximately
    $47 million on studying and evaluating the feasibility of
    an integrated gasification combined cycle plant with carbon
    capture and sequestration, referred to as Clean Hydrogen Power
    Generation (CHPG). SCE may be able to recover the amounts spent
    in rates subject to a requirement to make reasonable efforts to
    obtain co-funding from other entities. The CPUC has not
    authorized SCE to build or operate a CHPG plant, as technical
    feasibility and commercial reasonableness have not yet been
    proven. During 2008, EME participated in the early development
    of new clean coal generation projects. Due to the projected
    increase in the capital costs of these projects and the lack of
    a regulatory framework addressing
    CO2
    sequestration, EME is not actively developing specific new clean
    coal generation or gasification projects at this time, but
    intends to continue to evaluate the feasibility of these
    projects in the future.


 



    Corporate
    Governance Processes


 


    Edison International’s Board of Directors regularly
    receives reports regarding environmental issues that affect
    Edison International and its subsidiaries, including climate
    change issues. In addition, Edison International has



    
    9



Table of Contents




    had an Environmental Policy Council, which has primary
    responsibility regarding environmental issues. The membership of
    the Council includes senior executives of SCE and EME and it is
    chaired by Edison International’s Executive Vice President
    of Public Affairs. The council reports directly to Edison
    International’s Chief Executive Officer. Additionally,
    Edison International’s Chief Executive Officer is a
    Director of the Energy Power Research Institute (EPRI), an
    independent, nonprofit organization that provides research and
    analyses to address challenges in electricity, including
    environmental challenges such as climate change.


 


    Information regarding further current developments on climate
    change and GHG regulation appears in the MD&A under the
    heading “Other Developments — Environmental
    Matters — Climate Change.”


 



    Air
    Quality Regulation


 


    The Federal CAA, state clean air acts and federal and state
    regulations implementing such statutes apply to plants owned by
    Edison International’s subsidiaries as well as to plants
    from which these subsidiaries may purchase power, and have their
    largest impact on the operation of coal-fired plants. These
    federal regulations require states to adopt implementation
    plans, known as SIPs, that are equal to or more stringent than
    the federal requirements, detailing how they will attain the
    standards that are mandated by the relevant law or regulation.
    See “Other Developments — Environmental
    Matters — Air Quality Regulation” in the
    MD&A for further discussion.


 



    Hazardous
    Substances and Hazardous Waste Laws


 


    Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and
    regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of any
    facility, including an electric generating facility, may be
    required to investigate and remediate releases or threatened
    releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products
    located at that facility, and may be held liable to a
    governmental entity or to third parties for property damage,
    personal injury, natural resource damages, and investigation and
    remediation costs incurred by these parties in connection with
    these releases or threatened releases. Many of these laws,
    including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
    and Liability Act of 1980, commonly referred to as CERCLA, as
    amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of
    1986 and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, impose
    liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused
    the presence of the hazardous substances, and courts have
    interpreted liability under these laws to be strict and joint
    and several.


 


    In connection with the ownership and operation of their
    facilities, Edison International’s subsidiaries may be
    liable for costs associated with hazardous waste compliance and
    remediation required by the laws and regulations identified
    herein.


 



    Water
    Quality Regulation


 


    Regulations under the federal Clean Water Act require permits
    for the discharge of pollutants into United States waters and
    permits for the discharge of storm water flows from certain
    facilities. The Clean Water Act also regulates the thermal
    component (heat) of effluent discharges and the location,
    design, and construction of cooling water intake structures at
    generating facilities. California has a US EPA approved program
    to issue individual or group (general) permits for the
    regulation of Clean Water Act discharges. California, Illinois
    and Pennsylvania also regulate certain discharges not regulated
    by the US EPA.


 



    Clean
    Water Act — Cooling Water Standards and
    Regulations


 


    On July 9, 2004, the US EPA published the final
    Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean
    Water Act establishing standards for cooling water intake
    structures at existing large power plants. The purpose of the
    regulation was to reduce substantially the number of aquatic
    organisms that are pinned against cooling water intake
    structures (impingement) or drawn into cooling water systems
    (entrainment). Depending on the findings of demonstration
    studies contemplated by the rule to demonstrate the costs and
    benefits of compliance, cooling towers
    and/or other
    mechanical means of reducing impingement and entrainment of
    aquatic organisms could have been required.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    On January 27, 2007, the Second Circuit rejected the US EPA
    rule and remanded it to the US EPA. Among the key provisions
    remanded by the court were the use of cost benefit and
    restoration to achieve compliance with the rule. On July 9,
    2007, the US EPA suspended the requirements for cooling water
    intake structures, pending further rulemaking. On
    December 2, 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court heard oral
    arguments on this case. A decision is expected in the first half
    of 2009. The US EPA has delayed rulemaking pending the decision
    of the Supreme Court.


 


    The California State Water Resources Control Board is developing
    a draft state policy on ocean-based, once-through cooling.
    Further information regarding the cooling water intake structure
    standards appears in the MD&A under the heading “Other
    Developments — Environmental Matters — Water
    Quality Regulation — Clean Water Act —
    Prohibition on the Use of Ocean-Based Once-Through Cooling.”


 


    The Illinois EPA is currently considering the adoption of a rule
    that would impose stringent thermal and effluent water quality
    standards for the Chicago Area Waterway System and Lower Des
    Plaines River. See “Business of Edison Mission Group
    Inc. — Environmental Matters Affecting EME —
    Water Quality Regulation — Illinois Effluent Water
    Quality Standards” below and “Other
    Developments — Environmental Matters — Water
    Quality Regulation — State Water Quality
    Standards — Illinois” in the MD&A for
    further discussion.


 



    Electric
    and Magnetic Fields


 


    Electric and magnetic fields naturally result from the
    generation, transmission, distribution and use of electricity.
    Since the 1970s, concerns have been raised about the potential
    health effects of EMF. After 30 years of research, a health
    hazard has not been established to exist. Potentially important
    public health questions remain about whether there is a link
    between EMF exposures in homes or work and some diseases, and
    because of these questions, some health authorities have
    identified EMF exposures as a possible human carcinogen. To
    date, none of the regulatory agencies with jurisdiction over
    Edison International’s subsidiaries have claimed there is a
    proven link between exposure to EMF and human health effects.


 



    Financial
    Information About Geographic Areas


 


    Financial information for geographic areas for Edison
    International can be found in Notes 16 and 17 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Edison International’s
    consolidated financial statements for all years presented
    reflect the reclassification of the results of EME’s
    international power generation portfolio that was sold or held
    for sale as discontinued operations in accordance with an
    accounting standard related to the impairment and disposal of
    long-lived assets.



    
    11



Table of Contents



 



    BUSINESS
    OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY


 


    SCE was incorporated in 1909 under the laws of the State of
    California. SCE is a public utility primarily engaged in the
    business of supplying electric energy to a 50,000-square-mile
    area of central, coastal and southern California, excluding the
    City of Los Angeles and certain other cities. This SCE service
    territory includes approximately 432 cities and communities
    and a population of more than 13 million people. In 2008,
    SCE’s total operating revenue was derived as follows: 42%
    commercial customers, 38% residential customers, 6% resale
    sales, 7% industrial customers, 6% public authorities, and 1%
    agricultural and other customers. During 2008, the sources of
    electric power that serviced SCE’s customers were
    approximately 28% owned by SCE and approximately 72% procured
    from third parties. At December 31, 2008, SCE had
    consolidated assets of $31.0 billion and total
    shareholder’s equity of $7.4 billion. SCE had
    16,344 full-time employees at year-end 2008.


 



    Regulation
    of SCE


 


    SCE’s retail operations are subject to regulation by the
    CPUC. The CPUC has the authority to regulate, among other
    things, retail rates, issuance of securities, and accounting
    practices. SCE’s wholesale operations are subject to
    regulation by the FERC. The FERC has the authority to regulate
    wholesale rates as well as other matters, including unbundled
    transmission service pricing, accounting practices, and
    licensing of hydroelectric projects.


 


    Additional information about the regulation of SCE by the CPUC
    and the FERC, and about SCE’s competitive environment,
    appears in the MD&A under the heading “SCE: Regulatory
    Matters” and in this section under the sub heading
    “— Competition of SCE.”


 


    SCE is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to
    its nuclear power plants. United States NRC regulations govern
    the granting of licenses for the construction and operation of
    nuclear power plants and subject those power plants to
    continuing review and regulation. The California Coastal
    Commission issued a coastal permit for the construction of the
    San Onofre Units 2 and 3 in 1974. SCE has a coastal permit
    from the California Coastal Commission to construct a temporary
    dry cask spent fuel storage installation for San Onofre
    Units 2 and 3. The California Coastal Commission also has
    continuing jurisdiction over coastal permits issued for the
    decommissioning of San Onofre Unit 1, including for the
    construction of a temporary dry cask spent fuel storage
    installation for spent fuel from that unit.


 


    The construction, planning, and siting of SCE’s power
    plants within California are subject to the jurisdiction of the
    California Energy Commission (for plants 50 MW or greater)
    and the CPUC. SCE is subject to the rules and regulations of the
    CARB, and local air pollution control districts with respect to
    the emission of pollutants into the atmosphere; the regulatory
    requirements of the California State Water Resources Control
    Board and regional boards with respect to the discharge of
    pollutants into waters of the state; and the requirements of the
    California Department of Toxic Substances Control with respect
    to handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. SCE
    is also subject to regulation by the US EPA, which administers
    certain federal statutes relating to environmental matters.
    Other federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to
    environmental protection, land use, and water rights also affect
    SCE.


 


    The construction, planning and siting of SCE’s transmission
    lines and substation facilities require the approval of many
    governmental agencies and compliance with various laws,
    depending upon the attributes of each particular project. These
    agencies include utility regulatory commissions such as the CPUC
    and other state regulatory agencies depending on the project
    location; the ISO, and other environmental, land management and
    resource agencies such as the Bureau of Land Management, the
    U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the U.S. Forest
    Service, and the California Department of Fish and Game;
    Regional Water Quality Control Boards; and the States’
    Offices of Historic Preservation. In addition, to the extent
    that SCE transmission line projects pass through lands owned or
    controlled by Native American tribes, consent and approval from
    the affected tribes and the Bureau of Indian Affairs will also
    be necessary for the project to proceed. The agencies’
    approval processes, implemented through their respective
    regulations and other statutes that impose requirements on the
    approvals of such projects, may adversely affect and delay the
    schedule for these projects.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    The United States Department of Energy has regulatory authority
    over certain aspects of SCE’s operations and business
    relating to energy conservation, power plant fuel use and
    disposal, electric sales for export, public utility regulatory
    policy, and natural gas pricing.


 


    SCE is subject to CPUC affiliate transaction rules and
    compliance plans governing the relationship between SCE and its
    affiliates. See “Business of Edison
    International — Regulation of Edison
    International” above for further discussion of these rules.


 



    Competition
    of SCE


 


    Because SCE is an electric utility company operating within a
    defined service territory pursuant to authority from the CPUC,
    SCE faces competition only to the extent that federal and
    California laws permit other entities to provide electricity and
    related services to customers within SCE’s service
    territory. California law currently provides only limited
    opportunities for customers to choose to purchase power directly
    from an energy service provider other than SCE. SCE also faces
    some competition from cities and municipal districts that create
    municipal utilities or community choice aggregators. In
    addition, customers may install their own
    on-site
    power generation facilities. Competition with SCE is conducted
    mainly on the basis of price, as customers seek the lowest cost
    power available. The effect of competition on SCE generally is
    to reduce the size of SCE’s customer base, thereby creating
    upward pressure on SCE’s rate structure to cover fixed
    costs, which in turn may cause more customers to leave SCE in
    order to obtain lower rates.


 



    Properties
    of SCE


 


    SCE supplies electricity to its customers through extensive
    transmission and distribution networks. Its transmission
    facilities (which exist primarily in California but also in
    Nevada and Arizona), deliver power from generating sources to
    the distribution network, consist of approximately 7,200 circuit
    miles of 33 kilovolt (kV), 55 kV, 66 kV, 115 kV, and 161 kV
    lines and 3,520 circuit miles of 220 kV lines, 1,240 circuit
    miles of 500 kV lines, and 889 substations. SCE’s
    distribution system, which takes power from substations to the
    customer, includes approximately 71,500 circuit miles of
    overhead lines, 40,000 circuit miles of underground lines,
    1.5 million poles, 719 distribution substations, 715,527
    transformers, and 810,519 area and streetlights, all of which
    are located in California.


 


    SCE owns and operates the following generating facilities:
    (1) an undivided 78.21% interest (1,760 MW) in
    San Onofre Units 2 and 3, which are large pressurized water
    nuclear generating units located on the California coastline
    between Los Angeles and San Diego; (2) 36
    hydroelectric plants (1,178.9 MW) located in
    California’s Sierra Nevada, San Bernardino and
    San Gabriel mountain ranges, three of which (2.7 MW)
    are no longer operational and will be decommissioned; (3) a
    diesel-fueled generating plant (9 MW) located on Santa
    Catalina island off the southern California coast, (4) a
    natural gas-fueled two unit power plant (1,050 MW) located
    in Redlands, California, and (5) four gas-fueled,
    combustion turbine peaker plants located in the cities of
    Norwalk, Ontario, Rancho Cucamonga and Stanton, California
    (combined generating capacity of 186 MW).


 


    SCE owns an undivided 56% interest (884.8 MW net) in
    Mohave, which consists of two coal-fueled generating units that
    no longer operate located in Clark County, Nevada near the
    California border. See “SCE: Regulatory Matters
    — Mohave Generating Station and Related
    Proceedings” in the MD&A for more information.


 


    SCE owns an undivided 15.8% interest (601 MW) in Palo Verde
    Units 1, 2 and 3, which are large pressurized water nuclear
    generating units located near Phoenix, Arizona, and an undivided
    48% interest (720 MW) in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners,
    which is a coal-fueled generating plant located near the City of
    Farmington, New Mexico. Palo Verde and Four Corners are operated
    by Arizona Public Service Company, as operating agent for SCE
    and other co-owners of these generating units.


 


    At year-end 2008, the SCE-owned generating capacity (summer
    effective rating) was divided approximately as follows: 43%
    nuclear, 22% hydroelectric, 22% natural gas, 13% coal, and less
    than 1% diesel. The capacity factors in 2008 for SCE’s
    nuclear and coal-fired generating units were: 82% for
    San Onofre; 78% for Four Corners; and 86% for Palo Verde.
    For SCE’s hydroelectric plants, generating capacity is
    dependent on the



    
    13



Table of Contents




    amount of available water. SCE’s hydroelectric plants
    operated at a 24% capacity factor in 2008. These plants were
    operationally available for 73% of the year.


 


    San Onofre, Four Corners, certain of SCE’s
    substations, and portions of its transmission, distribution and
    communication systems are located on lands of the United States
    or others under (with minor exceptions) licenses, permits,
    easements or leases, or on public streets or highways pursuant
    to franchises. Certain of such documents obligate SCE, under
    specified circumstances and at its expense, to relocate
    transmission, distribution, and communication facilities located
    on lands owned or controlled by federal, state, or local
    governments.


 


    Thirty-one of SCE’s 36 hydroelectric plants (some with
    related reservoirs) are located in whole or in part on United
    States lands pursuant to 30- to
    50-year FERC
    licenses that expire at various times between 2009 and 2039 (the
    remaining five plants are located entirely on private property
    and are not subject to FERC jurisdiction). Such licenses impose
    numerous restrictions and obligations on SCE, including the
    right of the United States to acquire projects upon payment of
    specified compensation. When existing licenses expire, the FERC
    has the authority to issue new licenses to third parties that
    have filed competing license applications, but only if their
    license application is superior to SCE’s and then only upon
    payment of specified compensation to SCE. New licenses issued to
    SCE are expected to contain more restrictions and obligations
    than the expired licenses because laws enacted since the
    existing licenses were issued require the FERC to give
    environmental purposes greater consideration in the licensing
    process. SCE has filed applications for the relicensing of
    certain hydroelectric projects with an aggregate capacity of
    approximately 915 MW. Annual licenses have been issued to
    SCE hydroelectric projects that are undergoing relicensing and
    whose long-term licenses have expired. Federal Power Act
    Section 15 requires that the annual licenses be renewed
    until the long-term licenses are issued or denied.


 


    Substantially all of SCE’s properties are subject to the
    lien of a trust indenture securing first and refunding mortgage
    bonds, of which approximately $5.80 billion in principal
    amount was outstanding on February 27, 2009. Such lien and
    SCE’s title to its properties generally are also subject to
    the terms of franchises, licenses, easements, leases, permits,
    contracts, and other instruments under which properties are held
    or operated, certain statutes and governmental regulations,
    liens for taxes and assessments, and certain other liens, prior
    rights and encumbrances which do not materially affect
    SCE’s right to use such properties in its business.


 


    SCE’s rights in Four Corners, which is located on land of
    the Navajo Nation under an easement from the United States and a
    lease from the Navajo Nation, may be subject to possible
    defects. These defects include possible conflicting grants or
    encumbrances not ascertainable because of the absence of, or
    inadequacies in, the applicable recording law and the record
    systems of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Navajo Nation,
    the possible inability of SCE to resort to legal process to
    enforce its rights against the Navajo Nation without
    Congressional consent, the possible impairment or termination
    under certain circumstances of the easement and lease by the
    Navajo Nation, Congress, or the Secretary of the Interior, and
    the possible invalidity of the trust indenture lien against
    SCE’s interest in the easement, lease, and improvements on
    Four Corners.


 



    Nuclear
    Power Matters of SCE


 


    Information about operating issues related to Palo Verde appears
    in the MD&A under the heading “SCE: Other
    Developments — Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station
    Outage and Inspection”. Information about nuclear
    decommissioning can be found under the heading “SCE: Other
    Developments” in the MD&A and in Notes 1 and 6 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Information about
    nuclear insurance can be found in Note 6 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    California law prohibits the CEC from siting or permitting a
    nuclear power plant in California until the CEC finds that there
    exists a federally approved and demonstrated technology or means
    for the disposal of high-level nuclear waste.



    
    14



Table of Contents



 



    SCE
    Purchased Power and Fuel Supply


 


    SCE obtains the power needed to serve its customers from its
    generating facilities and from purchases from qualifying
    facilities, independent power producers, renewable power
    producers, the California ISO, and other utilities. In addition,
    power is provided to SCE’s customers through purchases by
    the CDWR under contracts with third parties. Sources of power to
    serve SCE’s customers during 2008 were as follows: 44.0%
    purchased power; 23.5% CDWR; and 32.5% SCE-owned generation
    consisting of 17.6% nuclear, 7.1% gas, 5.2% coal, and 2.6% hydro.


 



    Natural
    Gas Supply


 


    SCE requires natural gas to meet contractual obligations for
    power tolling agreements (power contracts in which SCE has
    agreed to provide the natural gas needed for generation under
    those power contracts) and to serve demand for gas at
    Mountainview and SCE’s four peaker plants. All of the
    physical gas purchased by SCE in 2008 was purchased, after
    competitive bidding, under North American Energy Standards Board
    agreements (master gas agreements) that define the terms and
    conditions of transactions with a particular supplier prior to
    any financial commitment.


 


    In 2007, SCE secured a one-year natural gas storage capacity
    contract with Southern California Gas Company for the 2007/2008
    storage season. Storage capacity was secured to provide
    operational flexibility and to mitigate potential costs
    associated with the dispatch of facilities that had tolling
    agreements with SCE.


 



    Nuclear
    Fuel Supply


 


    For San Onofre Units 2 and 3, contractual arrangements are
    in place covering 100% of the projected nuclear fuel
    requirements through the years indicated below:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 





    Uranium concentrates



 


 


    2020


 





    Conversion



 


 


    2020


 





    Enrichment



 


 


    2020


 





    Fabrication



 


 


    2015


 




 




 








 


    For Palo Verde, contractual arrangements are in place covering
    100% of the projected nuclear fuel requirements through the
    years indicated below:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 





    Uranium concentrates



 


 


    2010


 





    Conversion



 


 


    2011


 





    Enrichment



 


 


    2013


 





    Fabrication



 


 


    2016


 




 




 








 



    Spent
    Nuclear Fuel


 


    Information about Spent Nuclear Fuel appears in Note 6 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Coal
    Supply


 


    On January 1, 2005, SCE and the other Four Corners
    participants entered into a Restated and Amended Four Corners
    Fuel Agreement with the BHP Navajo Coal Company under which coal
    will be supplied to Four Corners Units 4 and 5 until
    July 6, 2016. The Restated and Amended Agreement contains
    an option to extend for not less than five additional years or
    more than 15 years.


 



    Insurance
    of SCE


 


    SCE has property and casualty insurance policies, which include
    excess liability insurance covering liabilities to third parties
    for bodily injury or property damage resulting from operations.
    SCE believes that its insurance policies are appropriate in
    light of its past claims experience. However, no assurance can
    be given that SCE’s



    
    15



Table of Contents




    insurance will be adequate to cover all losses. See “SCE:
    Other Developments — Wildfire Insurance Issues”
    in the MD&A for further discussion.


 



    Seasonality
    of SCE Revenue


 


    Due to warmer weather during the summer months, electric utility
    revenue during the third quarter of each year is generally
    significantly higher than other quarters.


 



    Environmental
    Matters Affecting SCE


 


    SCE is subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and
    local authorities in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
    This regulation, including in the areas of air and water
    pollution, waste management, hazardous chemical use, noise
    abatement, land use, aesthetics, nuclear control and climate
    change, continues to result in the imposition of numerous
    restrictions on SCE’s operation of existing facilities, on
    the timing, cost, location, design, construction, and operation
    by SCE of new facilities, and on the cost of mitigating the
    effect of past operations on the environment. For general
    information regarding the environmental laws and regulations
    that impact SCE, see “Business of Edison
    International — Environmental Matters Affecting Edison
    International.”


 



    Climate
    Change


 


    SCE will continue to monitor federal, regional, and state
    developments relating to climate change to determine their
    impact on its operations. Programs to reduce GHG emissions could
    significantly increase the cost of generating electricity from
    fossil fuels, especially coal, as well as the cost of purchased
    power. Any such cost increases should generally be borne by
    customers.


 


    SCE is evaluating the CARB’s reporting regulations required
    by AB 32 to assess the total cost of compliance. SCE believes
    that all of its facilities in California meet the GHG emissions
    performance standard contemplated by SB 1368, but will continue
    to monitor the implementing regulations, as they are developed,
    for potential impact on existing facilities and projects under
    development. Due to the restrictions that the SB 1368 EPS places
    upon financial commitments with coal-fired facilities, SCE has
    filed a Petition for Modification of the EPS adopted by the CPUC
    in which it seeks clarification of the applicability of the EPS
    to its existing ownership of Four Corners. Information regarding
    current developments on climate change and climate change
    regulation appears in the MD&A under the heading
    “Other Developments — Environmental
    Matters — Climate Change.”


 



    Air
    Quality Regulation


 



    Ambient
    Air Quality Standards


 


    US EPA’s 2006 fine particulate standard significantly
    expanded the number of regions within SCE’s service
    territory (i.e., the Mohave Desert region, San Bernardino
    and Riverside County areas) that now have non-attainment status
    and will require local air quality agencies to identify
    particulate emissions reductions from existing sources, as well
    as requiring fine particulate emission offsets when new or
    modified sources undergo New Source Review permitting.


 


    SCE believes its Mountainview plant and four peaker plants,
    which are located in the SCAQMD, are in full compliance with the
    Best Available Control Technology, also referred to as BACT, and
    no further emissions reductions are being contemplated from
    these sources. Additionally, Four Corners is located in an area
    that meets or exceeds all of the National Ambient Air Quality
    Standards and has a Federal Implementation Plan in place that is
    intended to ensure that such standards continue to be met.


 



    Regional
    Haze


 


    Four Corners is awaiting a final determination on its BART
    analysis from the US EPA’s regional office. Until such
    determination is received, SCE is unable to estimate the
    required expenditures or potential regulatory recovery of those
    expenditures. See “Other Developments —
    Environmental Matters — Air Quality
    Regulation — Regional Haze — New
    Mexico” in the MD&A for further discussion.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    Hazardous
    Substances and Hazardous Waste Laws


 


    In connection with the ownership and operation of its
    facilities, SCE may be liable for costs associated with
    hazardous waste compliance and remediation required by laws and
    regulations. Through an incentive mechanism, the CPUC allows SCE
    to recover in retail rates paid by its customers some of the
    environmental remediation costs at certain sites. Additional
    information about these laws and regulations appears in
    Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Water
    Quality Regulation


 



    Prohibition
    on the Use of Ocean-Based Once-Through Cooling


 


    The California State Water Resources Control Board is developing
    a draft state policy on ocean-based, once-through cooling.
    Further information regarding the cooling water intake structure
    standards appears in the MD&A under the heading “Other
    Developments — Environmental Matters — Water
    Quality Regulation — Clean Water Act —
    Prohibition on the Use of Ocean-Based Once-Through Cooling”


 



    Electric
    and Magnetic Fields


 


    In January 2006, the CPUC issued a decision updating its
    policies and procedures related to EMF emanating from regulated
    utility facilities. The decision concluded that a direct link
    between exposure to EMF and human health effects has yet to be
    proven, and affirmed the CPUC’s existing
    “low-cost/no-cost” EMF policies to mitigate EMF
    exposure for new utility transmission and substation projects.



    
    17



Table of Contents



 



    BUSINESS
    OF EDISON MISSION GROUP INC.


 


    EMG is a wholly owned subsidiary of Edison International. EMG is
    the holding company for its principal wholly owned subsidiaries,
    EME and Edison Capital.


 



    Business
    of Edison Mission Energy


 


    EME is a holding company which operates primarily through its
    subsidiaries and affiliates which are engaged in the business of
    developing, acquiring, owning or leasing, operating, and selling
    energy and capacity from independent power production
    facilities. EME also conducts hedging and energy trading
    activities in power markets open to competition through EMMT,
    its subsidiary. EME is an indirect subsidiary of Edison
    International.


 


    EME was formed in 1986 with two domestic operating power plants.
    EME’s subsidiaries or affiliates have typically been formed
    to own full or partial interests in one or more power plants and
    ancillary facilities, with each plant or group of related plants
    being individually referred to by EME as a project. EME’s
    operating projects primarily consist of coal-fired generating
    facilities, natural gas-fired generating facilities and wind
    farms. As of December 31, 2008, EME’s subsidiaries and
    affiliates owned or leased interests in 37 operating projects
    with an aggregate net physical capacity of 11,019 MW of
    which EME’s capacity pro rata share was
    9,849 MW. At December 31, 2008, 3 wind projects with
    an EME capacity pro rata share totaling 223 MW of
    net generating capacity were under construction.


 


    EME is in a capital intensive business and depends on access to
    the financial markets to fund capital expenditures, meet
    contractual obligations and support margin and collateral
    requirements. EME has expanded its business development
    activities to grow and diversify its existing portfolio of power
    projects, including building new power plants. In addition, EME
    has environmental compliance requirements and ongoing capital
    expenditures for its existing generation fleet. All of these
    activities require liquidity and access to capital markets at
    reasonable rates in the future.


 



    Competition
    and Market Conditions of EME


 


    Historically, investor-owned utilities and government-owned
    power agencies were the only producers of bulk electric power
    intended for sale to third parties in the United States.
    However, the United States electric industry, including
    companies engaged in providing generation, transmission,
    distribution and retail sales and service of electric power, has
    undergone significant deregulation over the last three decades,
    which has led to increased competition, especially in the
    generation sector. Most recently, through EPAct 2005, the
    U.S. Congress recognized that a significant market for
    electric power generated by independent power producers, such as
    EME, has developed in the United States and indicated that
    competitive wholesale electricity markets have become accepted
    as a fundamental aspect of the electricity industry.


 


    As part of the developments discussed above, the FERC has
    encouraged the formation of ISOs and RTOs. In those areas where
    ISOs and RTOs have been formed, market participants have open
    access to transmission service typically at a system-wide rate.
    ISOs and RTOs may also operate real-time and day-ahead energy
    and ancillary service markets, which are governed by
    FERC-approved tariffs and market rules. The development of such
    organized markets into which independent power producers are
    able to sell has reduced their dependence on bilateral contracts
    with electric utilities. See further discussion of regulations
    under ‘” Regulation of EME — United States
    Federal Energy Regulation.”


 


    In various regional markets, electricity market administrators
    have acknowledged that the markets for generating capacity do
    not provide sufficient revenues to enable existing merchant
    generators to recover all of their costs or to encourage new
    generating capacity to be constructed. Capacity auctions have
    been implemented in some markets, including PJM, to address this
    issue. This approach is currently expected to provide
    significant additional capacity revenues for independent power
    producers.


 


    EME’s largest power plants are its fossil fuel power plants
    located in Illinois, which are collectively referred to as the
    Illinois Plants in this annual report, and the Homer City
    electric generating station located in Pennsylvania, which is
    referred to as the Homer City facilities in this annual report.
    The Illinois Plants and the



    
    18



Table of Contents




    Homer City facilities sell power into PJM, an RTO which includes
    all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland,
    Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania,
    Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia.


 


    PJM operates a wholesale spot energy market and determines the
    market-clearing price for each hour based on bids submitted by
    participating generators which indicate the minimum prices a
    bidder is willing to accept to be dispatched at various
    incremental generation levels. PJM conducts both day-ahead and
    real-time energy markets. PJM’s energy markets are based on
    locational marginal pricing, which establishes hourly prices at
    specific locations throughout PJM. Locational marginal pricing
    is determined by considering a number of factors, including
    generator bids, load requirements, transmission congestion and
    transmission losses. It can also be affected by, among other
    things, market mitigation measures and energy market price caps.


 


    PJM requires all load-serving entities to maintain prescribed
    levels of capacity, including a reserve margin, to ensure system
    reliability. PJM also determines the amount of capacity
    available from each specific generator and operates capacity
    markets. PJM’s capacity markets have a single
    market-clearing price. Load-serving entities and generators,
    such as EME’s subsidiaries, Midwest Generation, with
    respect to the Illinois Plants, and EME Homer City, with respect
    to the Homer City facilities, may participate in PJM’s
    capacity markets or transact capacity sales on a bilateral
    basis. For a discussion of legal challenges to the prices
    resulting from PJM’s capacity auctions, see
    “Regulatory Matters — PJM Matters — RPM
    Buyers’ Complaint.”


 


    The Homer City facilities have direct, high voltage
    interconnections to PJM and also to the NYISO, which controls
    the transmission grid and energy and capacity markets for New
    York State. As in PJM, the market-clearing price for
    NYISO’s day-ahead and real-time energy markets is set by
    supplier generation bids and customer demand bids.


 


    Sales may also be made from PJM into the MISO RTO, where there
    is a single rate for transmission access. The MISO, which
    commenced operation on April 1, 2005, includes all or parts
    of Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, and other
    states in the region. The MISO conducts a bilateral market and
    day-ahead and real-time markets based on locational marginal
    pricing similar to that of PJM.


 


    For a discussion of the market risks related to the sale of
    electricity from these generating facilities, see
    “EMG — Market Risk Exposures” in the
    MD&A.


 


    EME is subject to intense competition from energy marketers,
    investor-owned utilities and government-owned power agencies
    utilities, industrial companies, financial institutions, and
    other independent power producers. Some of EME’s
    competitors have a lower cost of capital than most independent
    power producers and, in the case of utilities, are often able to
    recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms, allowing them
    to build, buy and upgrade generation without relying exclusively
    on market clearing prices to recover their investments. These
    companies may also have competitive advantages as a result of
    their scale and the location of their generation facilities.


 


    Environmental regulations, particularly those that impose
    stringent state specific emission limits, could put EME’s
    coal-fired plants at a disadvantage compared with competing
    power plants operating in nearby states and subject only to
    federal emission limits. Potential future climate change
    regulations could also put EME’s coal-fired power plants at
    a disadvantage compared to both power plants utilizing other
    fuels and utilities that may be able to recover climate change
    compliance costs through rate mechanisms. In addition,
    EME’s ability to compete may be affected by governmental
    and regulatory activities designed to support the construction
    and operation of power generation facilities fueled by renewable
    energy sources.



    
    19



Table of Contents



 



    Power
    Plants of EME


 


    EME’s operating projects are located within the United
    States, except for the Doga project in Turkey. As of
    December 31, 2008, EME’s operations consisted of
    ownership or leasehold interests in the following operating
    projects:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    EME’s Capacity
    


 




 


 


 


 


    Primary
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Net Physical
    


 


 


    Pro Rata
    


 




 


 


 


 


    Electric
    


 


 


 


    Ownership
    


 


 


    Capacity
    


 


 


    Share
    


 




    Projects


 


    Location


 


Purchaser(2)




 


    Fuel Type


 


    Interest


 


 


    (in MW)


 


 


    (in MW)


 




 


 



 





    Merchant Power
    Plants(1)




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Illinois Plants



 


    Illinois


 


    PJM


 


    Coal


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    5,471


 


 


 


    5,471


 





    Illinois Plants



 


    Illinois


 


    PJM


 


    Oil/Gas


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    305


 


 


 


    305


 





    Homer City facilities



 


    Pennsylvania


 


    PJM


 


    Coal


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    1,884


 


 


 


    1,884


 





    Goat Wind (Phase I)



 


    Texas


 


    ERCOT


 


    Wind


 


 


    99.9


    %(3)



 


 


    80


 


 


 


    80


 





    Lookout



 


    Pennsylvania


 


    PJM


 


    Wind


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    38


 


 


 


    38


 





    Contracted Power Plants — Domestic



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Natural Gas



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Big 4 Projects



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Kern River



 


    California


 


    SCE


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    300


 


 


 


    150


 





    Midway-Sunset



 


    California


 


    SCE


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    225


 


 


 


    113


 





    Sycamore



 


    California


 


    SCE


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    300


 


 


 


    150


 





    Watson



 


    California


 


    SCE


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    49


    %


 


 


    385


 


 


 


    189


 





    Westside Projects



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Coalinga



 


    California


 


    PG&E


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    38


 


 


 


    19


 





    Mid-Set



 


    California


 


    PG&E


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    38


 


 


 


    19


 





    Salinas River



 


    California


 


    PG&E


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    38


 


 


 


    19


 





    Sargent Canyon



 


    California


 


    PG&E


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    38


 


 


 


    19


 





    March Point



 


    Washington


 


    PSE


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    140


 


 


 


    70


 





    Sunrise



 


    California


 


    CDWR


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    572


 


 


 


    286


 





    Wind



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Buffalo Bear



 


    Oklahoma


 


    WFEC


 


    Wind


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    19


 


 


 


    19


 





    Crosswinds



 


    Iowa


 


    CBPC


 


    Wind


 


 


    99


    %(3)



 


 


    21


 


 


 


    21


 





    Forward



 


    Pennsylvania


 


    CECG


 


    Wind


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    29


 


 


 


    29


 





    Hardin



 


    Iowa


 


    IPLC


 


    Wind


 


 


    99


    %(3)



 


 


    15


 


 


 


    15


 





    Jeffers



 


    Minnesota


 


    NSPC


 


    Wind


 


 


    99.9


    %(3)



 


 


    50


 


 


 


    50


 





    Minnesota Wind
    projects(4)




 


    Minnesota


 


    NSPC/IPLC


 


    Wind


 


 


    75-99


    %(3)



 


 


    83


 


 


 


    75


 





    Mountain Wind I



 


    Wyoming


 


    PC


 


    Wind


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    61


 


 


 


    61


 





    Mountain Wind II



 


    Wyoming


 


    PC


 


    Wind


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    80


 


 


 


    80


 





    Odin



 


    Minnesota


 


    MRES


 


    Wind


 


 


    99.9


    %(3)



 


 


    20


 


 


 


    20


 





    San Juan Mesa



 


    New Mexico


 


    SPS


 


    Wind


 


 


    75


    %


 


 


    120


 


 


 


    90


 





    Sleeping Bear



 


    Oklahoma


 


    PSCO


 


    Wind


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    95


 


 


 


    95


 





    Spanish Fork



 


    Utah


 


    PC


 


    Wind


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    19


 


 


 


    19


 





    Storm Lake



 


    Iowa


 


    MEC


 


    Wind


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    109


 


 


 


    109


 





    Wildorado



 


    Texas


 


    SPS


 


    Wind


 


 


    99.9


    %(3)



 


 


    161


 


 


 


    161


 





    Coal and Other



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    American Bituminous



 


    West Virginia


 


    MPC


 


    Waste Coal


 


 


    50


    %


 


 


    80


 


 


 


    40


 





    Huntington



 


    New York


 


    LIPA


 


    Biomass


 


 


    38


    %


 


 


    25


 


 


 


    9


 





    Contracted Power Plants — International



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Doga



 


    Turkey


 


    TEDAS


 


    Natural Gas


 


 


    80


    %


 


 


    180


 


 


 


    144


 




 




 





    Total



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    11,019


 


 


 


    9,849


 




 




 








 




    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Except for the Watson project, March Point project, Minnesota
    Wind projects, and the Huntington Waste-to-Energy project, each
    plant is operated under contract by an EME operations and
    maintenance subsidiary or plant is operated or managed directly
    by an EME subsidiary (wholly owned plants).





    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



    
    (2) 
    
    
    Electric purchaser abbreviations are as follows:




 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    CBPC



 


    Corn Belt Power Cooperative


 


    PC


 


    PacifiCorp





    CDWR



 


    California Department of Water Resources


 


    PG&E


 


    Pacific Gas & Electric Company





    CECG



 


    Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.


 


    PJM


 


    PJM Interconnection, LLC





    ERCOT



 


    Electric Reliability Council of Texas


 


    PSCO


 


    Public Service Company of Oklahoma





    IPLC



 


    Interstate Power and Light Company


 


    PSE


 


    Puget Sound Energy, Inc.





    LIPA



 


    Long Island Power Authority


 


    SCE


 


    Southern California Edison Company





    MEC



 


    Mid-American Energy Company


 


    SPS


 


    Southwestern Public Service





    MPC



 


    Monongahela Power Company


 


    TEDAS


 


    Türkiye Elektrik Da#itim Anonim Sirketi





    MRES



 


    Missouri River Energy Services


 


    WFEC


 


    Western Farmers Electric Cooperative





    NSPC



 


    Northern States Power Company


 


 


 


 








 




    
    
    



    
    (3) 
    
    
    Represents EME’s current ownership interest. If the project
    achieves a specified rate of return, EME’s interest will
    decrease.



 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Comprised of seven individual wind projects.




 


    In addition to the facilities and power plants that EME owns,
    EME uses the term “its” in regard to facilities and
    power plants that EME or an EME subsidiary operates under
    sale-leaseback arrangements.


 



    Business
    Development of EME


 



    Renewable
    Projects


 



    Wind Projects
    


 


    EME has made significant investments in wind projects and plans
    to continue to do so over the next several years, subject to
    market conditions. Historically, wind projects have received
    federal subsidies in the form of production tax credits.
    Production tax credits for a ten-year period are available for
    new projects placed in service by December 31, 2012.


 


    In seeking to find and invest in new wind projects, EME has
    entered into joint development agreements with third-party
    development companies that provide for funding by an EME
    subsidiary of development costs including through loans
    (referred to as development loans) and joint decision-making on
    key contractual agreements such as power purchase contracts,
    site agreements and permits. Joint development agreements and
    development loans may be for a specific project or a group of
    identified and future projects and generally grant EME the
    exclusive right to acquire related projects. In addition to
    joint development agreements, EME may purchase wind projects
    from third-party developers in various stages of development,
    construction or operation.


 


    In general, EME funds development costs under joint development
    agreements through development loans which are secured by
    project specific assets. A project’s development loans are
    repaid upon the completion of the project. If the project is
    purchased by EME, repayment is to be made from proceeds received
    from EME in connection with the purchase. In the event EME
    declines to purchase a project, repayment is made from proceeds
    received from the sale of the project to third parties or from
    other sources as available.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, EME had a development pipeline of
    potential wind projects with a projected installed capacity of
    approximately 5,000 MW. The development pipeline represents
    potential projects with respect to which EME either owns the
    project rights or has exclusive acquisition rights. Completion
    of development of a wind project may take a number of years due
    to factors that include local permit requirements, and
    availability and prices of equipment. Furthermore, successful
    completion of a wind project is dependent upon obtaining permits
    and agreements necessary to support an investment.



    
    21



Table of Contents




    There is no assurance that each project included in the
    development pipeline currently or added in the future will be
    successfully completed.


 


    See “Edison Mission Group — EMG:
    Liquidity — Capital Expenditures —
    Expenditures for New Projects” and “Commitments,
    Guarantees and Indemnities — Turbine Commitments”
    in the MD&A for further discussion.


 



    Solar
    Projects
    


 


    During 2008, EME submitted bids in competitive solicitations to
    supply power from solar projects under development in the
    southwestern United States. Initial site and equipment selection
    have been completed along with preliminary economic feasibility
    studies. Further project development activities are underway to
    obtain transmission interconnection, site control, and
    construction costs estimates, and to negotiate power sales
    agreements. To support development activities, EME entered into
    an agreement with First Solar Electric, LLC to provide design,
    engineering, procurement, and construction services for solar
    projects for identified customers, subject to the satisfaction
    of certain contingencies and entering into definitive agreements
    for such services for each project.


 



    Thermal
    Projects
    


 


    During the first quarter of 2008, a subsidiary of EME was
    awarded by SCE, through a competitive bidding process, a
    ten-year power sales contract for the output of a 479 MW
    gas-fired peaking facility located in the City of Industry,
    California, which is referred to as the Walnut Creek project.
    Deliveries under the power sales agreement are scheduled to
    commence in 2013. During the fourth quarter of 2008, EME and its
    subsidiary terminated a turbine supply agreement for the project
    to preserve capital and recorded a pre-tax charge of
    $23 million ($14 million, after tax). EME plans to
    purchase turbines for the project subject to resolution of
    uncertainty regarding the availability of required emission
    credits. For further discussion of the status of this project,
    see “Other Developments — Environmental
    Matters — Priority Reserve Legal Challenges” in
    the MD&A.


 



    Discontinued
    Operations of EME


 


    During 2004 and early 2005, EME sold assets totaling
    6,452 MW, which constituted most of its international
    assets. Except for the Doga project, which was not sold, these
    international assets are accounted for as discontinued
    operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144 and,
    accordingly, all prior periods have been restated to reclassify
    the results of operations and assets and liabilities as
    discontinued operations. The sale of the international
    operations included:


 




    
    



        •  

        On September 30, 2004, EME sold its 51.2% interest in
    Contact Energy Limited to Origin Energy New Zealand Limited.




 



        •  

        On December 16, 2004, EME sold the stock and related assets
    of MEC International B.V. to IPM. The sale of MEC International
    included the sale of EME’s ownership interests in ten
    electric power generating projects or companies located in
    Europe, Asia, Australia, and Puerto Rico.




 



        •  

        On January 10, 2005, EME sold its 50% equity interest in
    the Caliraya-Botocan-Kalayaan (CBK) hydroelectric power project
    located in the Philippines to CBK Projects B.V.




 



        •  

        On February 3, 2005, EME sold its 25% equity interest in
    the Tri Energy project to IPM.





 


    See “Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Hedging
    and Trading Activities of EME


 


    EME’s power marketing and trading subsidiary, EMMT, markets
    the energy and capacity of EME’s merchant generating fleet
    and, in addition, trades electric power and energy and related
    commodity and financial



    
    22



Table of Contents




    products, including forwards, futures, options and swaps. EMMT
    segregates its marketing and trading activities into two
    categories:


 




    
    



        •  

        Hedging — EMMT engages in the sale and hedging
    of electricity and purchase of fuels (other than coal) through
    intercompany contracts with EME’s subsidiaries that own or
    lease the Illinois Plants and the Homer City facilities, and in
    hedging activities associated with EME’s merchant wind
    energy facilities. The objective of these activities is to sell
    the output of the power plants on a forward basis or to hedge
    the risk of future change in the price of electricity, thereby
    increasing the predictability of earnings and cash flows.
    Hedging activities are typically weighted toward on-peak periods
    and may include load service requirements contracts with local
    utilities. EMMT also conducts hedging associated with the
    purchase of fuels, including natural gas and fuel oil.
    Transactions entered into related to hedging activities are
    designated separately from EMMT’s trading activities and
    are recorded in what EMMT calls its hedge book. Not all of the
    contracts entered into by EMMT for hedging activities qualify
    for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. See
    “EMG: Market Risk Exposures — Accounting for
    Energy Contracts” in the MD&A for a discussion of
    accounting for derivative contracts.




 



        •  

        Trading — As an extension of its marketing and
    hedging activities, EMMT seeks to generate trading profits from
    the volatility of the price of electricity, fuels and
    transmission by buying and selling contracts for their sale or
    provision, as the case may be, in wholesale markets under
    limitations approved by EME’s risk management committee.
    These activities include load service requirements contracts
    awarded through auctions by local utilities where EMMT
    subsequently hedges a significant portion of the forward price
    risk. EMMT records these transactions in what it calls its
    proprietary book.





 


    In conducting EME’s hedging and trading activities, EME
    contracts with a number of utilities, energy companies,
    financial institutions, and other companies, collectively
    referred to as counterparties. In the event a counterparty were
    to default on its trade obligation, EME would be exposed to the
    risk of possible loss associated with re-contracting the product
    at a price different from the original contracted price if the
    non-performing counterparty were unable to pay the resulting
    damages owed to EME. Further, EME would be exposed to the risk
    of non-payment of accounts receivable accrued for products
    delivered prior to the time a counterparty defaulted.


 


    To manage credit risk, EME looks at the risk of a potential
    default by counterparties. Credit risk is measured by the loss
    that EME would expect to incur if a counterparty failed to
    perform pursuant to the terms of its contractual obligations.
    EME measures, monitors and mitigates credit risk to the extent
    possible. To mitigate credit risk from counterparties, master
    netting agreements are used whenever possible and counterparties
    may be required to pledge collateral when deemed necessary. EME
    also takes other appropriate steps to limit or lower credit
    exposure.


 


    EME has established processes to determine and monitor the
    creditworthiness of counterparties. EME manages the credit risk
    of its counterparties based on credit ratings using published
    ratings of counterparties and other publicly disclosed
    information, such as financial statements, regulatory filings,
    and press releases, to guide it in the process of setting credit
    levels, risk limits and contractual arrangements, including
    master netting agreements. A risk management committee regularly
    reviews the credit quality of EME’s counterparties. Despite
    this, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be
    wholly successful in mitigating credit risk or that collateral
    pledged will be adequate.


 


    EME’s merchant operations expose it to commodity price
    risk. Commodity price risks are actively monitored by a risk
    management committee to ensure compliance with EME’s risk
    management policies. Policies are in place which define risk
    management processes, and procedures exist which allow for
    monitoring of all commitments and positions with regular reviews
    by EME’s risk management committee. EME uses “gross
    margin at risk” to identify, measure, monitor and control
    its overall market risk exposure with respect to hedge positions
    of the Illinois Plants, the Homer City facilities, and the
    merchant wind projects, and “value at risk” to
    identify, measure, monitor and control its overall risk exposure
    in respect of its trading positions. The use of these measures
    allows management to aggregate overall commodity risk, compare
    risk on a consistent basis and identify risk factors. Value at
    risk measures the possible loss, and gross margin at risk
    measures the potential change in value, of an asset or position,
    in each case over a given time interval, under normal market



    
    23



Table of Contents




    conditions, at a given confidence level. Given the inherent
    limitations of these measures and reliance on a single type of
    risk measurement tool, EME supplements these approaches with the
    use of stress testing and worst-case scenario analysis for key
    risk factors, as well as stop-loss triggers and counterparty
    credit exposure limits. Despite this, there can be no assurance
    that all risks have been accurately identified, measured
    and/or
    mitigated.


 


    In executing agreements with counterparties to conduct hedging
    or trading activities, EME generally provides credit support
    when necessary through margining arrangements (agreements to
    provide or receive collateral, letters of credit or guarantees
    based on changes in the market price of the underlying contract
    under specific terms). To manage its liquidity, EME assesses the
    potential impact of future price changes in determining the
    amount of collateral requirements under existing or anticipated
    forward contracts. There is no assurance that EME’s
    liquidity will be adequate to meet margin calls from
    counterparties in the case of extreme market changes or that the
    failure to meet such cash requirements would not have a material
    adverse effect on its liquidity. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors.” See “Item 1A. Risk Factors —
    Risks Relating to EMG.”


 



    Significant
    Customers


 


    In the past three fiscal years, EME’s merchant plants sold
    electric power generally into the PJM market by participating in
    PJM’s capacity and energy markets or by selling capacity
    and energy on a bilateral basis. Sales into PJM accounted for
    approximately 50%, 51% and 58% of EME’s consolidated
    operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Beginning in January 2007, EME also
    derived a significant source of its revenues from the sale of
    energy, capacity and ancillary services generated at the
    Illinois Plants to Commonwealth Edison under load requirements
    services contracts. Sales under these contracts accounted for
    12% and 19% of EME’s consolidated operating revenues for
    the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    For the year ended December 31, 2008, a third customer,
    Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. accounted for 10%
    of EME’s consolidated operating revenues. Sales to
    Constellation are primarily generated from EME’s merchant
    plants and largely consist of energy sales under forward
    contracts.


 



    Insurance
    of EME


 


    EME maintains insurance policies consistent with those normally
    carried by companies engaged in similar business and owning
    similar properties. EME’s insurance program includes
    all-risk property insurance, including business interruption,
    covering real and personal property, including losses from
    boilers, machinery breakdowns, and the perils of earthquake and
    flood, subject to specific sublimits. EME also carries general
    liability insurance covering liabilities to third parties for
    bodily injury or property damage resulting from operations,
    automobile liability insurance and excess liability insurance.
    Limits and deductibles in respect of these insurance policies
    are comparable to those carried by other electric generating
    facilities of similar size. However, no assurance can be given
    that EME’s insurance will be adequate to cover all losses.


 


    The EME Homer City property insurance program currently covers
    losses up to $1.325 billion. Under the terms of the
    participation agreements entered into on December 7, 2001
    as part of the sale-leaseback transaction of the Homer City
    facilities, EME Homer City is required to maintain specified
    minimum insurance coverages if and to the extent that such
    insurance is available on a commercially reasonable basis.
    Although the insurance covering the Homer City facilities is
    comparable to insurance coverages normally carried by companies
    engaged in similar businesses, and owning similar properties,
    the insurance coverages that are in place do not meet the
    minimum insurance coverages required under the participation
    agreements. Due to the current market environment, the minimum
    insurance coverage is not commercially available at reasonable
    prices. EME Homer City has obtained a waiver under the
    participation agreements which will permit it to maintain its
    current insurance coverage through June 1, 2009.


 



    Seasonality
    of EME


 


    Due to higher electric demand resulting from warmer weather
    during the summer months and cold weather during the winter
    months, electric revenues from the Illinois Plants and the Homer
    City facilities vary



    
    24



Table of Contents




    substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, maintenance
    outages generally are scheduled during periods of lower
    projected electric demand (spring and fall) further reducing
    generation and increasing major maintenance costs which are
    recorded as an expense when incurred. Accordingly, earnings from
    the Illinois Plants and the Homer City facilities are seasonal
    and have significant variability from quarter to quarter.
    Seasonal fluctuations may also be affected by changes in market
    prices. See “EMG: Market Risk Exposures —
    Commodity Price Risk — Energy Price Risk Affecting
    Sales from the Illinois Plants” and
    “— Energy Price Risk Affecting Sales from the
    Homer City Facilities” in the MD&A for further
    discussion regarding market prices.


 


    EME’s third quarter equity in income from its energy
    projects is materially higher than equity in income related to
    other quarters of the year due to warmer weather during the
    summer months and because a number of EME’s energy projects
    located on the West Coast have power sales contracts that
    provide for higher payments during the summer months.


 



    Regulation
    of EME


 



    General


 


    EME’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by
    governmental agencies. EME’s operating projects are subject
    to energy, environmental and other governmental laws and
    regulations at the federal, state and local levels in connection
    with the development, ownership and operation of its projects,
    and the use of electric energy, capacity and related products,
    including ancillary services from its projects. In addition, EME
    is subject to the market rules, procedures, and protocols of the
    markets in which it participates.


 


    The laws and regulations that affect EME and its operations are
    in a state of flux. Complex and changing environmental and other
    regulatory requirements could necessitate substantial
    expenditures and could create a significant risk of expensive
    delays or significant loss of value if a project were to become
    unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or
    local opposition.


 



    United
    States Federal Energy Regulation


 


    The FERC has ratemaking jurisdiction and other authority with
    respect to wholesale sales and interstate transmission of
    electric energy (other than transmission that is
    “bundled” with retail sales) under the FPA and with
    respect to certain interstate sales, transportation and storage
    of natural gas under the Natural Gas Act of 1938. The enactment
    of PURPA and the adoption of regulations under PURPA by the FERC
    provided incentives for the development of cogeneration
    facilities and small power production facilities using
    alternative or renewable fuels by establishing certain
    exemptions from the FPA and PUHCA 1935 for the owners of
    qualifying facilities. Independent power production has been
    further encouraged by the passage of the Energy Policy Act in
    1992, which provided additional exemptions from PUHCA 1935 for
    EWGs and foreign utility companies, and the EPAct of 2005, which
    included provisions for the repeal of PUHCA 1935, amendments to
    PURPA, merger review reform, the introduction of new regulations
    regarding transmission operation improvements, FERC authority to
    impose civil penalties for violation of its regulations,
    transmission rate reform, incentives for various generation
    technologies and the extension of production tax credits for
    wind and other specified types of generation.


 



    Federal
    Power Act


 


    The FPA grants the FERC exclusive jurisdiction over the rates,
    terms and conditions of wholesale sales of electricity and
    transmission services in interstate commerce (other than
    transmission that is “bundled” with retail sales),
    including ongoing, as well as initial, rate jurisdiction. This
    jurisdiction allows the FERC to revoke or modify previously
    approved rates after notice and opportunity for hearing. These
    rates may be based on a cost-of-service approach or, in
    geographic and product markets determined by the FERC to be
    workably competitive, may be market based.


 


    Most qualifying facilities, as that term is defined in PURPA,
    are exempt from the ratemaking and several other provisions of
    the FPA. EWGs certified in accordance with the FERC’s rules
    under PUHCA 2005 are subject to



    
    25



Table of Contents




    the FPA and to the FERC’s ratemaking jurisdiction
    thereunder, but the FERC typically grants EWGs the authority to
    sell power at market-based rates to purchasers which are not
    affiliated electric utility companies as long as the absence of
    market power is shown. As of December 31, 2008, EME’s
    power marketing subsidiaries, including EMMT, and a number of
    EME’s operating projects, including the Homer City
    facilities and the Illinois Plants, were authorized by the FERC
    to make wholesale market sales of power at market-based rates
    and were subject to the FERC ratemaking regulation under the
    FPA. EME’s future domestic non-qualifying facility
    independent power projects will also be subject to the FERC
    jurisdiction on rates.


 


    The FPA also grants the FERC jurisdiction over the sale or
    transfer of specified assets, including wholesale power sales
    contracts and generation facilities, and in some cases,
    jurisdiction over the issuance of securities or the assumption
    of specified liabilities and some interlocking directorates.
    Dispositions of EME’s jurisdictional assets or certain
    types of financing arrangements may require FERC approval.


 



    Public
    Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978


 


    PURPA provides two primary benefits to qualifying facilities.
    First, all cogeneration facilities that are qualifying
    facilities are exempt from certain provisions of the FPA and
    regulations of the FERC thereunder. Second, the FERC regulations
    promulgated under PURPA required that electric utilities
    purchase electricity generated by qualifying facilities at a
    price based on the purchasing utility’s avoided cost
    (unless, pursuant to EPAct 2005, the FERC has determined that
    the relevant market meets certain conditions for competitive,
    nondiscriminatory access), and that the utilities sell back up
    power to the qualifying facility on a nondiscriminatory basis.
    The FERC’s regulations also permitted qualifying facilities
    and utilities to negotiate agreements for utility purchases of
    power at prices different from the utility’s avoided costs.


 


    Several of EME’s projects, including the Big 4 projects,
    the Westside projects, American Bituminous, and March Point, are
    qualifying cogeneration facilities. To be a qualifying
    cogeneration facility, a cogeneration facility must produce
    electricity and useful thermal energy for an industrial or
    commercial process or heating or cooling applications in certain
    proportions to the facility’s total energy output, and must
    meet certain efficiency standards. If one of the projects in
    which EME has an interest were to lose its qualifying facility
    status, the project would no longer be entitled to the
    qualifying facility-related exemptions from regulation. As a
    result, the project could become subject to rate regulation by
    the FERC under the FPA and additional state regulation. Loss of
    qualifying facility status could also trigger defaults under
    covenants to maintain qualifying facility status in the
    project’s power sales agreements, steam sales agreements
    and financing agreements and result in refund claims from
    utility customers, termination, penalties or acceleration of
    indebtedness under such agreements. If a power purchaser were to
    cease taking and paying for electricity or were to seek to
    obtain refunds of past amounts paid because of the loss of
    qualifying facility status, it might not be possible to recover
    the costs incurred in connection with the project through sales
    to other purchasers. EME endeavors to monitor regulatory
    compliance by its qualifying facility projects in a manner that
    minimizes the risks of losing these projects’ qualifying
    facility status.


 



    Transmission
    of Wholesale Power


 


    Generally, projects that sell power to wholesale purchasers
    other than the local utility to which the project is
    interconnected require the transmission of electricity over
    power lines owned by others. This transmission service over the
    lines of intervening transmission owners is also known as
    wheeling. The prices and other terms and conditions of
    transmission contracts are regulated by the FERC when the entity
    providing the transmission service is a jurisdictional public
    utility under the FPA.


 


    The Energy Policy Act of 1992 laid the groundwork for a
    competitive wholesale market for electricity by, among other
    things, expanding the FERC’s authority to order electric
    utilities to transmit third-party electricity over their
    transmission lines, thus allowing qualifying facilities under
    PURPA, power marketers and those qualifying as EWGs under PUHCA
    1935 to more effectively compete in the wholesale market.



    
    26



Table of Contents





    Illinois
    Power Procurement


 


    The Illinois Power Agency Act, signed into law on
    August 28, 2007, establishes a new process for Commonwealth
    Edison and the Ameren Illinois utilities to procure power for
    their bundled-rate customers. On July 1, 2008, the two
    utilities began procuring power for bundled-rate customers by
    means of existing full requirements contracts that have not yet
    expired, certain multi-year swap contracts that they entered
    into with their affiliates pursuant to the Illinois Power Agency
    Act, and a competitive request for proposal procurement of
    standard wholesale power products run by independent procurement
    administrators with the oversight and approval of the Illinois
    Commerce Commission. The Illinois Power Agency Act provides
    further that starting in June 2009, a newly created Illinois
    Power Agency will be responsible for the administration,
    planning and procurement of power for Commonwealth Edison and
    the Ameren Illinois utilities’ bundled-rate customers using
    a portfolio-managed approach that is to include competitively
    procured standard wholesale products and renewable energy
    resources. The Illinois Commerce Commission will continue in its
    role of oversight and approval of the power planning and
    procurement for bundled retail customers of the utilities.


 


    On January 7, 2009, the Illinois Commerce Commission
    approved a procurement plan for 2009 that was proposed by the
    Illinois Power Agency. The plan, which is based on five-year
    demand forecasts, proposes a laddered procurement strategy for
    the period beginning in 2009 and ending in 2014. In 2009, the
    Illinois Power Agency is expected to acquire through a single
    request for proposals roughly one third of the forecasted demand
    for bundled load for Commonwealth Edison and Ameren. Renewable
    requirements, in the first year, will be purchased by way of
    one-year renewable energy credits; longer contracts may be
    included in future procurements if required by law or if
    approved by the Illinois Commerce Commission. The Illinois Power
    Agency issued its request for proposals in February 2009 and
    plans to conduct its procurement between mid-March and mid-April
    2009.


 



    PJM
    Matters


 


    On June 1, 2007, PJM implemented the RPM for capacity. The
    purpose of the RPM is to provide a long-term pricing signal for
    capacity resources. The RPM provides a mechanism for PJM to
    satisfy the region’s need for generation capacity, the cost
    of which is allocated to load-serving entities through a
    locational reliability charge. Also on June 1, 2007, PJM
    implemented marginal losses for transmission for its competitive
    wholesale electric market. For further discussion regarding the
    RPM and recent auctions, see “EMG: Market Risk
    Exposures — Commodity Price Risk — Capacity
    Price Risk” in the MD&A.


 



    RPM
    Buyers’ Complaint


 


    On May 30, 2008, a group of entities referring to
    themselves as the “RPM Buyers” filed a complaint at
    the FERC asking that PJM’s RPM, as implemented through the
    transitional base residual auctions establishing capacity
    payments for the period from June 1, 2008 through
    May 31, 2011, be found to have produced unjust and
    unreasonable capacity prices.


 


    On September 19, 2008, the FERC dismissed the RPM
    Buyers’ complaint, finding that the RPM Buyers had failed
    to allege or prove that any party violated PJM’s tariff and
    market rules, and that the prices determined during the
    transition period were determined in accordance with PJM’s
    FERC-approved tariff. On October 20, 2008, the RPM Buyers
    requested rehearing of the FERC’s order dismissing their
    complaint. This matter is currently pending before the FERC. EME
    cannot predict the outcome of this matter.


 



    RPM
    CONE


 


    On December 12, 2008, PJM submitted revised RPM Tariff
    sheets pursuant to Section 205 of the FPA, proposing RPM
    auction modifications (relating to CONE) values, including a
    proposal to modify how scarcity pricing revenues are
    incorporated in the Net Energy and Ancillary Services Revenue
    Offset, new rules for participation of demand side management
    resources in the RPM auctions, and a proposed holdback of 2.5%
    of the reliability requirement from the Base Residual Auction.
    The CONE is used to construct the demand curve for RPM auctions,
    and its level affects the clearing price for those auctions
    (which is determined at the intersection of the supply and
    demand curves).



    
    27



Table of Contents




    On February 9, 2009, PJM and several other parties to the
    proceedings filed a proposed settlement with the FERC with a
    proposed effective date of March 27, 2009. The CONE values
    in the proposed settlement represent a 10% decrease from those
    contained in PJM’s December 12, 2008 filing. The
    proposed settlement would retain the 2.5% holdback proposed in
    PJM’s December 12 filing and would increase the length of
    forward commitment for new capacity resources to seven years,
    instead of the five years originally proposed by PJM.


 


    There was a high level of opposition to PJM’s proposed
    modifications from buyers and consumers, and a similarly high
    level of opposition is expected with respect to the proposed
    settlement. The effect of the FERC’s actions on future RPM
    auctions cannot be determined at this time. The CONE as proposed
    for the May 2009 RPM auction for the 2012/2013 delivery year is
    higher than what is currently effective in the tariff.


 



    Environmental
    Matters Affecting EME


 



    Climate
    Change


 


    The ultimate outcome of the climate change debate could have a
    significant economic effect on EME. Any legal obligation that
    would require EME to reduce substantially its emissions of
    CO2
    or that would impose additional costs or charges for the
    emission of
    CO2
    could have a materially adverse effect on EME. EME will continue
    to monitor the federal, regional and state developments relating
    to regulation of GHG emissions to determine their impact on its
    operations. Requirements to reduce emissions of
    CO2
    and other GHG emissions could significantly increase the cost of
    generating electricity from fossil fuels, especially coal, as
    well as the cost of purchased power.


 


    Utility purchasers of power generated by EME’s power plants
    in California are subject to the EPS requirements of SB 1368. At
    this time, EME believes that all of its facilities in California
    meet the GHG EPS contemplated by SB1368, but will continue to
    monitor the regulations, as they are developed, for potential
    impact on existing facilities and projects under development.


 



    Air
    Quality Regulation


 


    Federal environmental regulations require reductions in
    emissions beginning in 2009 and require states to adopt
    implementation plans that are equal to or more stringent than
    the federal requirements. Compliance with these regulations and
    SIPs will affect the costs and the manner in which EME conducts
    its business, and is expected to require EME to make substantial
    additional capital expenditures. There is no assurance that EME
    would be able to recover these increased costs from its
    customers or that EME’s financial position and results of
    operations would not be materially adversely affected as a
    result.


 



    Clean Air
    Interstate Rule


 


    EME expects that compliance with the CAIR and the regulations
    and revised SIPs developed as a consequence of the CAIR will
    result in increased capital expenditures and operating expenses.
    EME’s approach to meeting these obligations will consist of
    a blending of capital expenditure and emission allowance
    purchases that will be based on an ongoing assessment of the
    dynamics of its market conditions.


 



    Illinois
    


 


    On December 11, 2006, Midwest Generation entered into an
    agreement with the Illinois EPA to reduce mercury,
    NOx
    and
    SO2
    emissions at the Illinois Plants. The agreement has been
    embodied in an Illinois rule called the Combined Pollutant
    Standard or CPS. All of Midwest Generation’s Illinois
    coal-fired electric generating units are subject to the CPS. For
    further discussion of the CPS, see information under the heading
    “Other Developments — Environmental
    Matters — Air Quality Regulation — Clean Air
    Interstate Rule — Illinois” in the MD&A.



    
    28



Table of Contents





    Pennsylvania
    


 


    On December 18, 2007, the Pennsylvania Environmental
    Quality Board approved the Pennsylvania CAIR. This rule has been
    submitted to the US EPA for approval as part of the Pennsylvania
    SIP. The Pennsylvania CAIR is substantively similar to the CAIR.
    EME Homer City will be subject to the federal CAIR rule during
    2009 and expects to be able to comply with the
    NOx
    requirement using its existing SCR system. The Pennsylvania
    CAIR, including both
    NOx
    and
    SO2
    limits, is expected to become effective in 2010. EME Homer City
    expects to comply with Pennsylvania CAIR through the continued
    operation of its scrubber on Unit 3 to reduce
    SO2
    emissions and the purchase of
    SO2
    allowances.


 



    Clean Air
    Mercury Rule


 


    EME’s coal-fired electric generating facilities are already
    subject to significant unit-specific mercury emission reduction
    requirements under Illinois and Pennsylvania law. As discussed
    in the MD&A, under the heading “Other
    Developments — Environmental Matters — Air
    Quality Regulation — Clean Air Mercury Rule,” in
    February 2008, the D.C. Circuit Court vacated the CAMR and in
    February 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to review
    the D.C. Circuit’s decision. Until CAMR is replaced by
    a new mercury rule, mercury regulation will come from state
    regulatory bodies. As described below, EME’s coal-fired
    electric generating facilities are already subject to
    significant unit-specific mercury emission reduction
    requirements under Illinois and Pennsylvania law (although, as
    noted below, a Pennsylvania court has recently invalidated
    Pennsylvania’s mercury regulations). Until new federal
    standards are developed, EME will not be able to determine
    whether it will be necessary to undertake measures beyond those
    required by state regulations.


 



    Illinois
    


 


    The final state rule for the reduction of mercury emissions in
    Illinois was adopted and became effective on December 21,
    2006. The rule requires a 90% reduction of mercury emissions
    from coal-fired power plants averaged across company-owned
    Illinois stations and a minimum reduction of 75% for individual
    generating sources by July 1, 2009. The rule requires each
    station to achieve a 90% reduction by January 1, 2014 and,
    because emissions are measured on a rolling
    12-month
    average, stations must install equipment necessary to meet the
    January 1, 2014, 90% reduction by January 1, 2013.


 


    On December 11, 2006, Midwest Generation entered into an
    agreement with the Illinois EPA to reduce mercury, NOX and
    SO2
    emissions at the Illinois Plants. The agreement has been
    embodied in an Illinois rule called the CPS. Midwest
    Generation’s compliance with the CPS supersedes the mercury
    rule described above for the Illinois Plants. The principal
    emission standards and control technology requirements for
    mercury under the CPS are as described below:


 


    Beginning in calendar year 2015, and continuing thereafter on a
    rolling
    12-month
    basis, Midwest Generation must either achieve an emission
    standard of .008 lbs mercury/GWh gross electrical output or a
    minimum 90% reduction in mercury for each unit (except Unit 3 at
    the Will County Station, which shall be included in calendar
    year 2016). In addition to these standards, Midwest Generation
    must install and operate the following specific control
    technologies:


 




    
    



        • 

        Activated carbon injection equipment on all operating units at
    the Crawford, Fisk and Waukegan Stations by July 1, 2008,
    and on all operating units at the Powerton, Will County and
    Joliet Stations by July 1, 2009.




 



        • 

        Cold side electrostatic precipitator or baghouse on Unit 7 at
    the Waukegan Station by December 31, 2013 and on Unit 3 at
    the Will County Station by December 31, 2015.





 


    Midwest Generation has installed activated carbon injection
    technology for the removal of mercury in 2008 for Crawford, Fisk
    and Waukegan Stations and is in the process of installing this
    technology in 2009 for Joliet, Powerton and Will County
    Stations. Capital expenditures relating to these controls were
    $37 million through 2008 and are expected to be
    $6 million in 2009.



    
    29



Table of Contents





    Pennsylvania
    


 


    On February 17, 2007, the PADEP published in the
    Pennsylvania Bulletin regulations that would require coal-fired
    power plants to reduce mercury emissions by 80% by 2010 and 90%
    by 2015. The rule does not allow the use of emissions trading to
    achieve compliance. The rule became final upon publication. The
    Pennsylvania CAMR SIP, which embodies PADEP’s mercury
    regulation, was pending approval by the US EPA prior to the
    February 8, 2008 Court of Appeals decision vacating the
    federal CAMR. On September 15, 2008, PPL Generation filed a
    Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court seeking relief
    from Pennsylvania’s mercury rule for coal-fired power
    plants, alleging that the PADEP cannot regulate power plant
    emission sources under Section 111 of the CAA, but must
    instead consider emission controls on a
    case-by-case
    basis as required by Section 112. On January 30, 2009,
    the Court issued an opinion declaring Pennsylvania’s
    mercury rule unlawful, invalid and unenforceable, and enjoining
    Pennsylvania from continued implementation and enforcement of
    the rule. The PADEP has appealed this matter to the Pennsylvania
    Supreme Court. EME cannot predict the outcome of this matter.


 


    If the Homer City facilities are required to meet the 2010
    deadline for mercury emissions reductions, EME Homer City would
    plan to achieve compliance by operating an existing FGD system
    on one generating unit and utilizing an appropriate combination
    of sorbent injection and coal washing on the other two units. In
    order to meet reductions in emissions by the 2015 deadline, it
    is likely that additional environmental control equipment will
    need to be installed. If additional environmental equipment is
    required in the form of FGD equipment, EME would need to make
    commitments during 2011 or 2012. EME continues to study
    available environmental control technologies and estimated costs
    to reduce
    SO2
    and mercury and to monitor developments related to mercury and
    other environmental regulations.


 



    Ambient
    Air Quality Standards


 


    The US EPA designated non-attainment areas for its 8-hour
    ozone standard on April 30, 2004, and for its fine
    particulate matter standard on January 5, 2005. Almost all
    of EME’s facilities are located in counties that have been
    identified as being in non-attainment with both standards. On
    September 22, 2006, the US EPA issued a final rule
    that implements the revisions to its fine particulate standard
    originally proposed on January 17, 2006. Under the new
    rule, the annual standard remains the same as originally
    proposed but the
    24-hour fine
    particulate standard is significantly more stringent. On
    February 24, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    D.C. Circuit remanded the annual fine particulate matter
    standard to the US EPA for review. The more stringent
    24-hour fine
    particulate standard (and, depending on the course of the
    remand, a further revised annual standard) may require states to
    impose further emission reductions beyond those necessary to
    meet the existing standards. Edison International anticipates
    that any such further emission reduction obligations would not
    be imposed under this standard until 2015 at the earliest, and
    intends to consider such rules as part of its overall plan for
    environmental compliance.


 


    On March 12, 2008, the US EPA issued a final rule to make
    revisions in the primary and secondary national ambient air
    quality standards for ozone. With regard to the primary and
    standards for ozone, US EPA reduced the level of the
    8-hour
    standard to 0.075 parts per million (ppm). The US EPA
    solicited comment on alternative levels down to 0.060 ppm
    and up to and including retaining the current
    8-hour
    standard of 0.080 ppm (effectively 0.084 ppm using
    current data rounding conventions). The rule may require states
    to impose further emission reductions beyond those necessary to
    meet the existing standards, Edison International anticipates
    that any such further emission reduction obligations would not
    be imposed under this standard until 2015 at the earliest, and
    intends to consider such rules as part of its overall plan for
    environmental compliance.


 



    Illinois
    


 


    Beginning with the 2003 ozone season (May 1 through September
    30), EME has been required to comply with an average
    NOx
    emission rate of 0.25 lb
    NOx/MMBtu
    of heat input. This limitation is commonly referred to as the
    East St. Louis State Implementation Plan. This regulation
    is a State of Illinois requirement. Each of the Illinois Plants
    complied with this standard in 2004. Beginning with the 2004
    ozone season, the Illinois Plants



    
    30



Table of Contents




    became subject to the federally mandated
    “NOx
    SIP Call” regulation that provided ozone-season
    NOx
    emission allowances to a 19-state region east of the
    Mississippi. This program provides for
    NOx
    allowance trading similar to the
    SO2
    (acid rain) trading program already in effect.


 


    The Illinois Plants have complied with the
    NOx
    regulations by installing advanced burner technology and by
    purchasing additional allowances. Midwest Generation plans to
    continue to purchase allowances as it implements the agreement
    it reached with the Illinois EPA, but expects to purchase fewer
    allowances as the required technology improvements are
    implemented.


 


    The Illinois EPA has begun to develop SIPs to meet National
    Ambient Air Quality Standards for
    8-hour ozone
    and fine particulates with the intent of bringing non-attainment
    areas, such as Chicago, into attainment. The SIPs are expected
    to deal with all emission sources, not just power generators,
    and to address emissions of
    NOx,
    SO2,
    and volatile organic compounds. The SIP for
    8-hour ozone
    was to be submitted to the US EPA by June 15, 2007, but is
    currently expected to be submitted in early 2009. The SIP for
    fine particulates was to be submitted to the US EPA by
    April 5, 2008, but is currently expected to be submitted in
    2010.


 


    The CPS requires Midwest Generation to install air pollution
    controls that will contribute to attainment with the ozone and
    fine particulate matter per National Ambient Air Quality
    Standards. Edison International does not know at this time
    whether the reductions required by the CPS will be sufficient
    for compliance with future ozone and particulate matter
    regulations. See “— Clean Air Interstate
    Rule — Illinois” for further discussion.


 



    Pennsylvania
    


 


    In June 2007, the PADEP requested a redesignation of Clearfield
    and Indiana counties to attainment with respect to the
    8-hour ozone
    standard. The PADEP also submitted a maintenance plan indicating
    that the existing (and upcoming) regulations controlling
    emissions of volatile organic compounds and
    NOx
    will result in continued compliance with the
    8-hour ozone
    standard. Accordingly, Edison International believes that the
    Homer City facilities will likely not need to install additional
    pollution control as a result of the
    8-hour ozone
    standard.


 


    With respect to fine particulates, Pennsylvania has not proposed
    new regulations to achieve compliance with the National Ambient
    Air Quality Standard for fine particulates. The SIP with respect
    to this standard was due to the US EPA by April 5, 2008,
    but has not been submitted. Edison International is unable to
    predict the timing of the SIP or its potential effect on the
    Homer City facilities.


 



    Hazardous
    Substances and Hazardous Waste Laws


 


    With respect to EME’s potential liabilities arising under
    CERCLA or similar laws for the investigation and remediation of
    contaminated property, EME accrues a liability to the extent the
    costs are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Midwest
    Generation has accrued approximately $4 million at
    December 31, 2008 for estimated environmental investigation
    and remediation costs for the Illinois Plants. This estimate is
    based upon the number of sites, the scope of work and the
    estimated costs for investigation
    and/or
    remediation where such expenditures could be reasonably
    estimated. Future estimated costs may vary based on changes in
    regulations or requirements of federal, state, or local
    governmental agencies, changes in technology, and actual costs
    of disposal. In addition, future remediation costs will be
    affected by the nature and extent of contamination discovered at
    the sites that requires remediation. Given the prior history of
    the operations at its facilities, EME cannot be certain that the
    existence or extent of all contamination at its sites has been
    fully identified. However, based on available information,
    management believes that future costs in excess of the amounts
    disclosed on all known and quantifiable environmental
    contingencies will not be material to EME’s financial
    position.


 



    Water
    Quality Regulation


 



    Clean
    Water Act — Cooling Water Standards and
    Regulations


 


    EME has collected impingement and entrainment data at its
    potentially affected Midwest Generation facilities in Illinois
    to begin the process of determining what corrective actions
    might need to be taken under the



    
    31



Table of Contents




    previous rule. Because there are no defined compliance targets
    absent a new rule, EME is currently in the process of generally
    reviewing a wide range of possible control technologies.
    Although the rule to be generated in the new rulemaking process
    could have a material impact on EME’s operations, until the
    final compliance criteria have been published, EME cannot
    reasonably determine the financial impact.


 



    Illinois
    Effluent Water Quality Standards


 


    The Illinois EPA is considering the adoption of a rule that
    would impose stringent thermal and effluent water quality
    standards for the Chicago Area Waterway System and Lower Des
    Plaines River. Midwest Generation’s Fisk, Crawford, Joliet
    and Will County stations all use water from the affected
    waterways for cooling purposes and the rule, if implemented, is
    expected to affect the manner in with those stations use water
    for station cooling. See “Other Developments —
    Environmental Matters — Water Quality
    Regulation — State Water Quality Standards —
    Illinois” in the MD&A for more information.


 



    Coal
    Combustion Wastes


 


    US EPA regulations currently classify coal combustion wastes as
    solid wastes that are exempt from hazardous waste requirements
    under what is known as the Bevill Amendment. The exemption
    applies to fly ash, bottom, slag, and flue gas emission control
    wastes generated from the combustion of coal or other fossil
    fuels. The US EPA has studied coal combustion wastes extensively
    and in 2000 concluded that fossil fuel combustions wastes do not
    warrant regulation as a hazardous waste under Subtitle C of the
    Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. However, the US EPA also
    concluded, in 2000 and again in a 2007 Notice of Data
    Availability and request for public comment, that coal
    combustion wastes disposed of in surface impoundments and
    landfills, or used for minefill, do require regulation under
    Subtitle D (as solid wastes) under the Resource Conservation and
    Recovery Act. The current classification of coal combustion
    wastes as exempt from hazardous waste requirements enables
    beneficial uses of coal combustion wastes, such as for cement
    production and fill materials. The Illinois Plants currently
    sell a significant portion of their coal combustion wastes for
    beneficial uses.


 


    Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. House of
    Representatives and the US EPA is reviewing options for
    regulation of coal ash. The US EPA and many state regulatory
    agencies, including the Illinois EPA and the PADEP, are
    reviewing existing ash storage and disposal units and the
    adequacy of existing regulatory standards. EME is monitoring
    state legislative and regulatory activity, specifically in
    Illinois, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, but cannot predict the
    outcome of this activity.


 


    Additional regulation of the storage, disposal, and beneficial
    uses of coal combustion wastes would affect the costs and the
    manner in which EME conducts its business, and would likely
    require EME to make additional capital expenditures with no
    assurance that the increased costs could be recovered from
    customers.


 



    Employees
    of EME


 


    At December 31, 2008, EME and its subsidiaries employed
    1,889 people, including:


 




    
    



        •  

        approximately 746 employees at the Illinois Plants covered
    by a collective bargaining agreement governing wages, certain
    benefits and working conditions. This collective bargaining
    agreement will expire on December 31, 2009. Midwest
    Generation also has a separate collective bargaining agreement
    governing retirement, health care, disability and insurance
    benefits that expires on June 15, 2010; and




 



        •  

        approximately 193 employees at the Homer City facilities
    covered by a collective bargaining agreement governing wages,
    benefits and working conditions. This collective bargaining
    agreement will expire on December 31, 2012.





 



    Business
    of Edison Capital


 


    Edison Capital has investments worldwide in energy and
    infrastructure projects, including power generation, electric
    transmission and distribution, transportation, and
    telecommunications. Edison Capital also has investments in
    affordable housing projects located throughout the United States.



    
    32



Table of Contents




    At the end of 2005, the employees of Edison Capital were
    transferred to EME and a services agreement was executed
    effective December 26, 2005 to provide for intercompany
    charges for services provided by EME to Edison Capital. During
    December 2005, Edison Capital dividended a portion of its wind
    projects to its parent company, EMG. The projects were then
    contributed to EME. During the first half of 2006, Edison
    Capital made a dividend of its remaining wind projects to EMG,
    and the projects were subsequently contributed to EME.


 


    At the present time, no new investments are expected to be made
    by Edison Capital and the focus will be on managing the existing
    investment portfolio.


 



    Energy
    and Infrastructure Investments of Edison Capital


 


    Edison Capital’s energy and infrastructure investments are
    in the form of domestic and cross-border leveraged leases,
    partnership interests in international infrastructure funds and
    operating companies in the United States.


 



    Leveraged
    Leases


 


    As of December 31, 2008, Edison Capital is the lessor with
    an investment balance of $2.5 billion in the following
    leveraged leases:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Investment
    


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Basic Lease
    


 


 


    Balance
    


 




    Transaction


 


    Asset


 


 


    Location


 


 


    Term Ends


 


 


    (In millions)
    


 




 


 



 





    Domestic Leases



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    MCV • Midland Cogeneration



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Ventures, selling power to



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Consumers Energy



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Company



 


 


    1,500 MW gas-fired cogeneration plant


 


 


 


    Midland, Michigan


 


 


 


    2015


 


 


    $


     2


 





    Vidalia • selling power to Entergy  Louisiana, City of
    Vidalia



 


 


    192 MW hydro power plant


 


 


 


    Vidalia, Louisiana


 


 


 


    2020


 


 


    $


     82


 





    Beaver Valley • selling power to Ohio Edison Company,



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Centerior Energy



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Corporation



 


 


    836 MW nuclear power plant


 


 


 


    Shippingport, Pennsylvania


 


 


 


    2017


 


 


    $


    66


 





    American Airlines



 


 


    3 Boeing 767 ER aircraft


 


 


 


    Domestic and
    international routes


 


 


 


    2016


 


 


    $


    50


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Cross-border Leases



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    EPON • power generation company



 


 


    1,675 MW combined cycle, gas-fired
    power plant (3 of 5 units


    )


 


 


    Netherlands


 


 


 


    2016


 


 


    $


    432


 





    EPZ • consortium of



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    government electric



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    distribution companies



 


 


    580 MW coal/gas-fired power plant


 


 


 


    Netherlands


 


 


 


    2016


 


 


    $


    100


 





    ESKOM • government integrated utility



 


 


    4,110 MW coal-fired power plant 
    (3 of 6 units


    )


 


 


    South Africa


 


 


 


    2018


 


 


    $


    632


 





    ETSA • government



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    integrated utility



 


 


    3,665 miles electric transmission system


 


 


 


    South Australia


 


 


 


    2022


 


 


    $


    303


 





    NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen
    • national rail authority



 


 


    40 electric locomotives


 


 


 


    Netherlands


 


 


 


    2011


 


 


    $


    39


 





    Swisscom • government 
    telecom utility



 


 


    Telecom conduit


 


 


 


    Switzerland


 


 


 


    2028


 


 


    $


    800


 




 




 








 


    The rent paid by the lessee is expected to cover debt payments
    and provide a profit to Edison Capital. As lessor, Edison
    Capital also claims the tax benefits, such as depreciation of
    the asset or amortization of lease payments and interest
    deductions. All regulatory, operating, maintenance, insurance
    and decommissioning costs are the responsibility of the lessees.
    The lessees’ performance is secured not only by the project
    assets,



    
    33



Table of Contents




    but also by other collateral that was valued as of
    December 31, 2008, in the aggregate at approximately
    $1.5 billion against $2.5 billion invested in
    leveraged leases. The lenders have a priority lien against the
    assets but the loans are non-recourse to Edison Capital. Edison
    Capital’s leveraged lease investments depend upon the
    performance of the asset, the lessee’s performance of its
    contract obligations, enforcement of remedies and sufficiency of
    the collateral in the event of default, and realization of tax
    benefits.


 



    Infrastructure
    Funds


 


    Edison Capital holds a minority interest as a limited partner in
    three separate funds that invest in infrastructure assets in
    Latin America, Asia and countries in Europe with emerging
    economies. Edison Capital is also a member of the investment
    committee of each fund. At December 31, 2008, Edison
    Capital had an investment balance of $12 million in the
    Latin America fund, $2 million in the Asia fund, and
    $19 million in the emerging Europe fund. As of
    December 31, 2008, Edison Capital did not have any
    additional investment commitments to these funds. The fund
    managers look to exit the investments on favorable terms which
    provide a return to the limited partners from appreciation in
    the value of the investment. The ability to exit investments on
    favorable terms depends upon many factors, including the
    economic conditions in each region, the performance of the
    asset, and whether there is a public or private market for these
    interests. For some fund investments there may also be foreign
    currency exchange rate risk.


 



    Affordable
    Housing Investments of Edison Capital


 


    At December 31, 2008, Edison Capital had a net investment
    of $7 million in approximately 313 affordable housing
    projects with approximately 25,000 units rented to
    qualifying low-income tenants in 35 states. These
    investments are usually in the form of majority interests in
    limited partnerships or limited liability companies. With a few
    exceptions, the projects are managed by third parties. For 105
    projects, Edison Capital has guaranteed a minimum return to the
    syndicated investor. Edison Capital retained a minority interest
    in, and continues to monitor, all of the syndicated investments.
    Edison Capital is entitled to low-income housing tax credits,
    depreciation and interest deductions, and a small percentage of
    cash generated from the projects. Edison Capital’s tax
    credits from these projects could be recaptured by the Internal
    Revenue Service if, among other things, the project fails to
    comply with the requirements of the tax credit program, costs
    are excluded from the eligible basis used to compute the amount
    of tax credits, or the project changes ownership through
    foreclosure. In most cases, Edison Capital is indemnified by the
    project manager (or parties related to it) against some losses,
    but there is no assurance of collecting against such
    indemnities. As of year-end 2008, Edison Capital had not
    experienced any significant recapture of tax credits from its
    affordable housing projects.


 



    Business
    Environment of Edison Capital


 


    Edison Capital’s investments may be affected by the
    financial condition of other parties, the performance of assets,
    regulatory, economic conditions and other business and legal
    factors. Information regarding the business environment of
    Edison Capital appears in the MD&A under the heading
    “EMG: Market Risk Exposure — Edison
    Capital’s Credit and Performance Risk.”


 


    Under tax allocation arrangements among Edison International and
    its subsidiaries, Edison Capital receives cash for federal and
    state tax benefits from its investments that are utilized on
    Edison International’s tax return. Information about Edison
    Capital’s tax allocation payments and tax exposures is
    contained in the MD&A under the heading “Edison
    Capital’s: Liquidity — Intercompany
    Tax-Allocation Payments” and “Other
    Developments — Federal Income Taxes.”



    
    34



Table of Contents






    
    



        Item 1A. 
    
    Risk Factors





 



    Risks
    Relating to Edison International


 



    Edison
    International may be unable to meet its ongoing and future
    financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock
    if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or
    repay funds to Edison International.


 


    Edison International is a holding company and, as such, Edison
    International has no operations of its own. Edison
    International’s ability to meet its financial obligations
    and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is
    primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its
    subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to
    repay funds to Edison International. Prior to funding Edison
    International, Edison International’s subsidiaries have
    financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied,
    including, among others, debt service and preferred stock
    dividends. Financial market and economic conditions may have an
    adverse effect on Edison International’s subsidiaries. See
    “Risks Relating to SCE” and “Risks Relating to
    EME” below for further discussion.


 



    Edison
    International’s cash flows and earnings could be adversely
    affected by tax developments relating to Edison Capital’s
    lease transactions.


 


    Edison Capital entered into certain types of lease transactions
    which have been challenged by the Internal Revenue Service.
    Edison International is currently engaged in attempts to settle
    such challenges, but if it is unable to do so on acceptable
    terms and is not successful in its defense of the tax treatment
    of those transactions, the payment of taxes could have a
    significant impact on cash flows. Also, the adoption of changes
    in accounting policies relating to the accounting for leases
    could cause a material effect on reported earnings by requiring
    Edison International to reverse earnings previously recognized
    as a current period adjustment and to report these earnings over
    the remaining life of the leases. More information regarding the
    lease transactions is contained in the MD&A under the
    heading “Other Developments — Federal Income
    Taxes.”


 



    Edison
    International and its subsidiaries are subject to costs and
    other effects of legal proceedings as well as changes in or
    additions to applicable tax laws, rates or policies, rates of
    inflation, and accounting standards.


 


    Edison International and its subsidiaries are subject to costs
    and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings,
    settlements, investigations and claims, as well as the effect of
    new, or changes in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of
    inflation and accounting standards.


 



    Edison
    International’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive
    environmental regulations that may involve significant and
    increasing costs and adversely affect them.


 


    Edison International’s subsidiaries are subject to
    extensive environmental regulation and permitting requirements
    that involve significant and increasing costs. SCE and EMG
    devote significant resources to environmental monitoring,
    pollution control equipment and emission allowances to comply
    with existing and anticipated environmental regulatory
    requirements. However, the current trend is toward more
    stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive
    application of environmental regulations. The U.S. Congress
    is deliberating over competing proposals to regulate GHG
    emissions. In addition, the attorneys general of several states,
    including California, certain environmental advocacy groups, and
    numerous state regulatory agencies in the United States have
    been focusing considerable attention on GHG emissions from
    coal-fired power plants and their potential role in climate
    change. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement GHG
    controls could adversely affect operations, particularly of the
    coal-fired plants. The continued operation of SCE and EMG
    facilities, particularly the coal-fired facilities, may require
    substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls. In
    addition, future environmental laws and regulations, and future
    enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental
    authorities, could affect the costs and the manner in which
    these subsidiaries conduct business. Current and future state
    laws and regulations in California could increase



    
    35



Table of Contents




    the required amount of power that must be procured from
    renewable resources. Furthermore, changing environmental
    regulations could make some units uneconomical to maintain or
    operate. If the affected subsidiaries cannot comply with all
    applicable regulations, they could be required to retire or
    suspend operations at such facilities, or to restrict or modify
    the operations of these facilities, and their business, results
    of operations and financial condition could be adversely
    affected.


 



    Risks
    Relating to SCE


 



    SCE’s
    financial viability depends upon its ability to recover its
    costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated
    rates.


 


    SCE is a regulated entity subject to CPUC jurisdiction in almost
    all aspects of its business, including the rates, terms and
    conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its
    customers, issuance of securities, dispositions of utility
    assets and facilities and aspects of the siting and operations
    of its electricity distribution systems. SCE’s ongoing
    financial viability depends on its ability to recover from its
    customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of
    electricity purchased for its customers, in its CPUC-approved
    rates and its ability to pass through to its customers in rates
    its FERC-authorized revenue requirements. SCE’s financial
    viability also depends on its ability to recover in rates an
    adequate return on capital, including long-term debt and equity.
    If SCE is unable to recover any material amount of its costs in
    rates in a timely manner or recover an adequate return on
    capital, its financial condition and results of operations would
    be materially adversely affected.


 



    SCE’s
    energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and
    market risks that could adversely affect its financial
    condition, liquidity, and earnings.


 


    SCE obtains energy, capacity, and ancillary services needed to
    serve its customers from its own generating plants and contracts
    with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC
    decisions allow SCE to recover in customer rates reasonable
    procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved
    procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE’s cash flows remain
    subject to volatility resulting from its procurement activities.
    In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or
    untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance of procurement
    activities with its procurement plan and the reasonableness of
    certain procurement-related costs.


 


    Many of SCE’s power purchase contracts are tied to market
    prices for natural gas. Some of its contracts also are subject
    to volatility in market prices for electricity. SCE seeks to
    hedge its market price exposure to the extent authorized by the
    CPUC. SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on
    favorable terms or fully recover the costs of hedges in rates,
    which could adversely affect SCE’s liquidity and results of
    operation.


 


    In its power purchase contracts and other procurement
    arrangements, SCE is exposed to risks from changes in the credit
    quality of its counterparties, many of whom may be adversely
    affected by the current conditions in the financial markets. If
    a counterparty were to default on its obligations, SCE could be
    exposed to potentially volatile spot markets for buying
    replacement power or selling excess power.


 



    SCE
    relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to
    access capital markets or the cost of capital were to
    substantially increase, its liquidity and operations could be
    adversely affected.


 


    SCE’s ability to make scheduled payments of principal and
    interest, refinance debt, and fund its operations and planned
    capital expenditure projects depends on its cash flow and access
    to the capital markets. SCE’s ability to arrange financing
    and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors,
    including its levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable
    credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash
    flow, and other market conditions. Market conditions which could
    adversely affect SCE’s financing costs and availability
    include:


 




    
    



        •  

        current financial market and economic conditions;




 



        •  

        market prices for electricity or gas;






    
    36



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        •  

        changes in interest rates and rates of inflation;




 



        •  

        terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks on
    SCE’s facilities or unrelated energy companies; and




 



        •  

        the overall health of the utility industry.





 


    SCE may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for
    these or other reasons. The failure to obtain additional capital
    from time to time may have a material adverse effect on
    SCE’s liquidity and operations.


 



    SCE is
    subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse
    regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or
    legislation.


 


    SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE’s
    business is subject to extensive federal, state and local
    energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. The CPUC
    regulates SCE’s retail operations, and the FERC regulates
    SCE’s wholesale operations. The NRC regulates SCE’s
    nuclear power plants. The construction, planning, and siting of
    SCE’s power plants and transmission lines in California are
    also subject to the jurisdiction of the California Energy
    Commission (for plants 50 MW or greater), and the CPUC. The
    construction, planning and siting of transmission lines that are
    outside of California are subject to the regulation of the
    relevant state agency. Additional regulatory authorities with
    jurisdiction over some of SCE’s operations and construction
    projects include the California Air Resources Board, the
    California State Water Resources Control Board, the California
    Department of Toxic Substances Control, the California Coastal
    Commission, the US EPA, the Bureau of Land Management, the
    U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, the U.S. Forest
    Service, Regional Water Quality Boards, the Bureau of Indian
    Affairs, the United States Department of Energy, the NRC, and
    various local regulatory districts.


 


    SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these
    various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective
    orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary
    licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities
    initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose
    penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE’s business could be
    adversely affected. Existing regulations may be revised or
    reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or
    become applicable to SCE or SCE’s facilities in a manner
    that may have a detrimental effect on SCE’s business or
    result in significant additional costs because of SCE’s
    need to comply with those requirements.


 



    There
    are inherent risks associated with operating nuclear power
    generating facilities.


 



    Spent
    fuel storage capacity could be insufficient to permit long-term
    operation of SCE’s nuclear plants.


 


    SCE operates and is majority owner of San Onofre and is
    part owner of Palo Verde. The United States Department of Energy
    has defaulted on its obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear
    fuel from commercial nuclear industry participants by
    January 31, 1998. If SCE or the operator of Palo Verde were
    unable to arrange and maintain sufficient capacity for interim
    spent-fuel storage now or in the future, it could hinder
    operation of the plants and impair the value of SCE’s
    ownership interests until storage could be obtained, each of
    which may have a material adverse effect on SCE.


 



    Existing
    insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully
    against losses from a nuclear incident.


 


    Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear
    incident to the amount of available financial protection which
    is currently approximately $12.5 billion. SCE and other
    owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde nuclear generating
    stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance
    available of $300 million per site. If the public liability
    limit above is insufficient, federal law contemplates that
    additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. This could
    include an additional assessment on all licensed reactor
    operators as a measure for raising further revenue. If this were
    to occur, a tension could exist between the federal
    government’s attempt to impose revenue-raising measures
    upon SCE and the CPUC’s willingness to allow SCE to pass
    this liability along to its customers, resulting in
    undercollection of SCE’s costs. There can be no assurance
    of SCE’s ability to recover uninsured costs in the event
    federal appropriations are insufficient.



    
    37



Table of Contents





    SCE’s
    financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially adversely affected if it is unable to successfully
    manage the risks inherent in operating and improving its
    facilities.


 


    SCE owns and operates extensive electricity facilities that are
    interconnected to the United States western electricity grid.
    SCE is also undertaking large-scale new infrastructure
    construction. The construction of infrastructure involves
    numerous risks, including risks related to permitting,
    governmental approvals, and construction delays. The operation
    of SCE’s facilities and the facilities of third parties on
    which it relies involves numerous risks, including:


 




    
    



        •  

        operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or
    other regulatory requirements;




 



        •  

        imposition of operational performance standards by agencies with
    regulatory oversight of SCE’s facilities;




 



        •  

        environmental and personal injury liabilities caused by the
    operation of SCE’s facilities;




 



        •  

        interruptions in fuel supply;




 



        •  

        blackouts;




 



        •  

        employee work force factors, including strikes, work stoppages
    or labor disputes;




 



        •  

        weather, storms, earthquakes, fires, floods or other natural
    disasters;




 



        •  

        acts of terrorism; and




 



        •  

        explosions, accidents, mechanical breakdowns and other events
    that affect demand, result in power outages, reduce generating
    output or cause damage to SCE’s assets or operations or
    those of third parties on which it relies.





 


    The occurrence of any of these events could result in lower
    revenues or increased expenses and liabilities, or both, which
    may not be fully recovered through insurance, rates or other
    means in a timely manner or at all.


 



    SCE’s
    insurance coverage may not be sufficient under all circumstances
    and SCE may not be able to obtain sufficient
    insurance.


 


    SCE’s insurance may not be sufficient or effective under
    all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to
    which it may be subject. A loss for which SCE is not fully
    insured could materially and adversely affect SCE’s
    financial condition and results of operations. Further, due to
    rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets,
    insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at
    rates or on terms similar to those presently available to SCE.


 



    Risks
    Relating to EME


 



    The
    global financial crisis may have a material adverse impact on
    EME’s access to capital necessary to fund contractual
    obligations and the ability of EME’s counterparties to
    perform their contractual obligations.


 


    Financial market and economic conditions have had, and may
    continue to have, an adverse effect on EME’s business and
    financial condition. The capital markets were not available to
    EME during the fourth quarter of 2008, and market uncertainty
    has continued into 2009. EME’s ability to raise capital has
    been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by volatile
    and unpredictable global market and economic conditions. Even
    after the capital markets recover, recent disruptions in the
    credit markets may have lasting effects on the availability of
    credit, cost of borrowing, and terms and conditions of new
    borrowings.


 


    In September 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., a lender in
    EME’s credit agreement representing a commitment of
    $36 million, declined requests for funding under that
    agreement. Thereafter, in October 2008, it filed for bankruptcy
    protection. While the Lehman Commercial Paper bankruptcy is not
    expected to have a material adverse effect on EME, the situation
    may worsen if other lenders under the credit agreement file for
    bankruptcy or otherwise fail to perform their obligations.



    
    38



Table of Contents




    Liquidity is essential to EME’s business. EME cannot
    provide assurance that its projected sources of capital will be
    available when needed or that its actual cash requirements will
    not be greater than expected. Lack of available capital may
    affect EME’s ability to complete environmental improvements
    of the Illinois Plants as prescribed by the CPS, which could
    lead to the eventual shutdown of a material part of the Illinois
    Plants. Lack of available capital could also affect EME’s
    ability to complete the development of sites for renewable
    projects deploying current turbine commitments, which could lead
    to postponement or cancellation of the turbine commitments
    subject to the provisions of the related contracts. In addition
    to the potential effect on EME’s liquidity, the global
    financial crisis could have a negative effect on the markets in
    which EME and its subsidiaries sell power, purchase fuel and
    perform other trading and marketing activities. In recent years,
    global financial institutions have been active participants in
    such markets. As such financial institutions consolidate and
    operate under more restrictive capital constraints in response
    to the financial crisis, there could be less liquidity in the
    energy and commodity markets, which could have a negative effect
    on EME’s ability to hedge and transact with creditworthy
    counterparties. In addition, EME is exposed to the risk that its
    counterparties, including customers, suppliers and business
    partners, may fail to perform according to the terms of their
    contractual arrangements. Deterioration in the financial
    condition of EME’s counterparties as a result of the global
    financial crisis, and the resulting failure to pay amounts owed
    or to perform obligations in excess of posted collateral, could
    have a negative effect on EME’s business and financial
    condition.


 



    EME
    has substantial interests in merchant energy power plants which
    are subject to market risks related to wholesale energy
    prices.


 


    EME’s merchant energy power plants do not have long-term
    power purchase agreements. Because the output of these power
    plants is not committed to be sold under long-term contracts,
    these projects are subject to market forces which determine the
    amount and price of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold
    from the power plants. The factors that influence the market
    price for energy, capacity and ancillary services include:


 




    
    



        •  

        prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and
    associated transportation;




 



        •  

        the extent of additional supplies of capacity, energy and
    ancillary services from current competitors or new market
    entrants, including the development of new generation facilities
    or technologies that may be able to produce electricity at a
    lower cost than EME’s generating facilities
    and/or
    increased access by competitors to EME’s markets as a
    result of transmission upgrades;




 



        •  

        transmission congestion in and to each market area and the
    resulting differences in prices between delivery points;




 



        •  

        the market structure rules established for each market area and
    regulatory developments affecting the market areas, including
    any price limitations and other mechanisms adopted to address
    volatility or illiquidity in these markets or the physical
    stability of the system;




 



        •  

        the ability of regional pools to pay market participants’
    settlement prices for energy and related products;




 



        •  

        the cost and availability of emission credits or allowances;




 



        •  

        the availability, reliability and operation of competing power
    generation facilities, including nuclear generating plants where
    applicable, and the extended operation of such facilities beyond
    their presently expected dates of decommissioning;




 



        •  

        weather conditions prevailing in surrounding areas from time to
    time; and




 



        •  

        changes in the demand for electricity or in patterns of
    electricity usage as a result of factors such as regional
    economic conditions and the implementation of conservation
    programs.





 


    In addition, unlike most other commodities, electric power can
    only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be
    produced concurrently with its use. As a result, the wholesale
    power markets are subject to significant and unpredictable price
    fluctuations over relatively short periods of time. There is no
    assurance that EME’s merchant energy power plants will be
    successful in selling power into their markets or that the
    prices received for their power will generate positive cash
    flows. If EME’s merchant energy power plants do not



    
    39



Table of Contents




    meet these objectives, they may not be able to generate enough
    cash to service their own debt and lease obligations, which
    could have a material adverse effect on EME.


 



    EME’s
    financial results can be affected by changes in fuel prices,
    fuel transportation cost increases, and interruptions in fuel
    supply.


 


    EME’s business is subject to changes in fuel costs, which
    may negatively affect its financial results and financial
    position by increasing the cost of producing power. The fuel
    markets can be volatile, and actual fuel prices can differ from
    EME’s expectations.


 


    Although EME attempts to purchase fuel based on its known fuel
    requirements, it is still subject to the risks of supply
    interruptions, transportation cost increases, and fuel price
    volatility. In addition, fuel deliveries may not exactly match
    energy sales, due in part to the need to purchase fuel
    inventories in advance for reliability and dispatch
    requirements. The price at which EME can sell its energy may not
    rise or fall at the same rate as a corresponding rise or fall in
    fuel costs.


 



    EME
    may not be able to hedge market risks effectively.


 


    EME is exposed to market risks through its ownership and
    operation of merchant energy power plants and through its power
    marketing business. These market risks include, among others,
    volatility arising from the timing differences associated with
    buying fuel, converting fuel into energy and delivering energy
    to a buyer. EME uses forward contracts and derivative financial
    instruments, such as futures contracts and options, to manage
    market risks and exposure to fluctuating electricity and fuel
    prices. However, EME cannot provide assurance that these
    strategies successfully mitigate market risks.


 


    EME may not cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions
    to market price volatility, and the level of coverage will vary
    over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively affect
    EME’s financial results to the extent that assets and
    positions have not been hedged.


 


    The effectiveness of EME’s hedging activities may depend on
    the amount of working capital available to post as collateral in
    support of these transactions, either in support of performance
    guarantees or as a cash margin. The amount of credit support
    that must be provided typically is based on the difference
    between the price of the commodity in a given contract and the
    market price of the commodity. Significant movements in market
    prices can result in a requirement to provide cash collateral
    and letters of credit in very large amounts. Without adequate
    liquidity to meet margin and collateral requirements, EME could
    be exposed to the following:


 




    
    



        •  

        a reduction in the number of counterparties willing to enter
    into bilateral contracts, which would result in increased
    reliance on short-term and spot markets instead of bilateral
    contracts, increasing EME’s exposure to market
    volatility; and




 



        •  

        a failure to meet a margining requirement, which could permit
    the counterparty to terminate the related bilateral contract
    early and demand immediate payment for the replacement value of
    the contract.





 


    As a result of these and other factors, EME cannot predict the
    effect that risk management decisions may have on its
    businesses, operating results or financial position.


 



    EME’s
    development projects or future acquisitions may not be
    successful.


 


    EME’s future financial condition, results of operation and
    cash flows will depend in large part upon its ability to
    successfully implement its long-term strategy, which includes
    the development and acquisition of electric power generation
    facilities, with an emphasis on renewable energy (primarily wind
    and solar) and gas-fired power plants. EME may be unable to
    identify attractive acquisition or development opportunities
    and/or to
    complete and integrate them on a successful and timely basis.
    Furthermore, implementation of this strategy may be affected by
    factors beyond EME’s control, such as increased
    competition, legal and regulatory developments, price volatility
    in electric or fuel markets, and general economic conditions.



    
    40



Table of Contents




    In support of its development activities, EME has entered into
    commitments to purchase wind turbines for future projects and
    may make substantial additional commitments in the future. In
    addition, EME expends significant amounts for preliminary
    engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before it can
    determine whether it will win a competitive bid, or whether a
    project is feasible or economically attractive.


 


    Historically, wind projects have received federal subsidies in
    the form of production tax credits. Currently, production tax
    credits are available for new wind projects placed in service by
    December 31, 2012. If the deadline for production tax
    credits is not extended again, EME’s development activities
    related to wind projects slated for completion after
    December 31, 2012, could be adversely affected.


 


    EME’s development activities are subject to risks
    including, without limitation, risks related to project siting,
    financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and
    the negotiation of project agreements, including power-purchase
    agreements. Moreover, recent economic conditions may affect the
    willingness of local utilities to enter into new power-purchase
    agreements due to uncertainties over future load requirements,
    among other factors. As a result of these risks, EME may not be
    successful in developing new projects or the timing of such
    development may be delayed beyond the date that turbines are
    ready for installation. Projects under development may be
    adversely affected by delays in turbine deliveries or
    start-up
    problems related to turbine performance. If a project under
    development is abandoned, EME would expense all capitalized
    development costs incurred in connection with that project, and
    could incur additional losses associated with any related
    contingent liabilities. If EME is not successful in developing
    new projects, it may be required to cancel turbine orders, or
    sell turbines that were purchased and such cancellation
    and/or sales
    may result in substantial losses.


 


    Finally, EME cannot provide assurance that its development
    projects or acquired assets will generate sufficient cash flow
    to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the
    capital expenditures needed to develop them, or that EME will
    ultimately realize a satisfactory rate of return.


 



    A
    substantial portion of wind turbines purchased by EME may not
    perform as expected during
    start-up or
    operations, thereby adversely affecting the expected return on
    investment.


 


    EME has purchased a significant number of wind turbines in
    support of its renewable energy activities. The turbines of one
    turbine manufacturer have experienced rotor blade cracks, and
    the turbines of another turbine manufacturer have also
    experienced blade problems. EME cannot provide assurance that
    repairs or replacements of the affected turbines will be timely
    or effective or that expected performance levels will be
    achieved. Significant delays in meeting commercial operation
    deadlines
    and/or
    reductions in project output could subject projects to damages
    under their power purchase agreements and, potentially, the risk
    of termination under some agreements. Turbine problems have also
    impacted EME’s ability to secure project financing for
    these projects. EME cannot predict at this time the amount of
    damages that will be recovered by EME from the turbine
    suppliers. Furthermore, limited data is presently available
    regarding the performance of new wind turbines of a size over
    2 MW over an extended period of time. Accordingly, EME
    cannot provide assurance that it will earn its expected return
    over the life of the projects.


 



    Competition
    could adversely affect EME’s business.


 


    The independent power industry is characterized by numerous
    capable competitors, some of whom may have more extensive
    experience in the acquisition and development of power projects,
    larger staffs, and greater financial resources than EME. Several
    participants in the wholesale markets, including many regulated
    utilities, have a lower cost of capital than most merchant
    generators and often are able to recover fixed costs through
    rate base mechanisms, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade
    generation assets without relying exclusively on market clearing
    prices to recover their investments. This could affect
    EME’s ability to compete effectively in the markets in
    which those entities operate.


 


    Newer plants owned by EME’s competitors are often more
    efficient than EME’s facilities. This may put some of
    EME’s facilities at a competitive disadvantage to the
    extent that its competitors are able to produce more power from
    each increment of fuel than EME’s merchant facilities are
    capable of producing. Over time, some



    
    41



Table of Contents




    of EME’s facilities may become obsolete in their markets,
    or be unable to compete, because of the construction of newer,
    more efficient power plants.


 


    In addition to the competition already existing in the markets
    in which EME presently operates or may consider operating in the
    future, EME is likely to encounter significant competition as a
    result of further consolidation of the power industry by mergers
    and asset reallocations, which could create larger competitors,
    as well as new market entrants. In addition, regulatory
    initiatives may result in changes in the power industry to which
    EME may not be able to respond in as timely and effective manner
    as its competitors.


 



    EME’s
    projects may be affected by general operating risks and hazards
    customary in the power generation industry. EME may not have
    adequate insurance to cover all these hazards.


 


    The operation of power generation facilities involves many
    operating risks, including:


 




    
    



        •  

        performance below expected levels of output, efficiency or
    availability;




 



        •  

        interruptions in fuel supply;




 



        •  

        disruptions in the transmission of electricity;




 



        •  

        curtailment of operations due to transmission constraints;




 



        •  

        breakdown or failure of equipment or processes;




 



        •  

        imposition of new regulatory, permitting, or environmental
    requirements, or violations of existing requirements;




 



        •  

        employee work force factors, including strikes, work stoppages
    or labor disputes;




 



        •  

        operator/contractor error; and




 



        •  

        catastrophic events such as terrorist activities, fires,
    tornadoes, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar
    occurrences affecting power generation facilities or the
    transmission and distribution infrastructure over which power is
    transported.





 


    These and other hazards can cause significant personal injury or
    loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property,
    plant and equipment, contamination of or damage to the
    environment, and suspension of operations. The occurrence of one
    or more of the events listed above could decrease or eliminate
    revenues generated by EME’s projects or significantly
    increase the costs of operating them, and could also result in
    EME’s being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting
    claims for substantial damages, potentially including
    environmental cleanup costs, personal injury, property damage,
    fines and penalties. Equipment and plant warranties, guarantees
    and insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all
    circumstances to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. A
    decrease or elimination in revenues generated by the facilities
    or an increase in the costs of operating them could decrease or
    eliminate funds available to meet EME’s obligations as they
    become due and could have a material adverse effect on EME. A
    default under a financing obligation of a project entity could
    result in a loss of EME’s interest in the project.


 



    EME is
    subject to extensive environmental regulation and permitting
    requirements that may involve significant and increasing
    costs.


 


    EME’s operations are subject to extensive environmental
    regulations with respect to, among other things, air quality,
    water quality, waste disposal, and noise. EME is required to
    obtain, and comply with conditions established by, licenses,
    permits and other approvals, in order to construct, operate or
    modify its facilities. Failure to comply with these requirements
    could subject EME to civil or criminal liability, the imposition
    of liens or fines, or actions by regulatory agencies seeking to
    curtail EME’s operations. See “— Risks
    relating to Edison International — Edison
    International’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive
    environmental regulations that may involve significant and
    increasing costs and adversely affect them” above for
    additional discussion of environmental regulation risks.



    
    42



Table of Contents





    EME is
    subject to extensive energy industry regulation.


 


    EME’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by
    governmental agencies. EME’s projects are subject to
    federal laws and regulations that govern, among other things,
    transactions by and with purchasers of power, including utility
    companies, the development and construction of generation
    facilities, the ownership and operations of generation
    facilities, and access to transmission. Under limited
    circumstances where exclusive federal jurisdiction is not
    applicable or specific exemptions or waivers from state or
    federal laws or regulations are otherwise unavailable, federal
    and/or state
    utility regulatory commissions may have broad jurisdiction over
    non-utility owned electric power plants. Generation facilities
    are also subject to federal, state and local laws and
    regulations that govern, among other things, the geographical
    location, zoning, land use and operation of a project.


 


    The FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures,
    including price caps and operating restrictions, where it
    determines that potential market power might exist and that the
    public interest requires mitigation. In addition, many of
    EME’s facilities are subject to rules, restrictions and
    terms of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs
    and ISOs. For example, ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and
    scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market
    power and to facilitate market functions. Such actions may
    materially affect EME’s results of operations.


 


    There is no assurance that the introduction of new laws or other
    future regulatory developments will not have a material adverse
    effect on EME’s business, results of operations or
    financial condition, nor is there any assurance that EME will be
    able to obtain and comply with all necessary licenses, permits
    and approvals for its projects. If projects cannot comply with
    all applicable regulations, EME’s business, results of
    operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.


 



    EME
    and its subsidiaries have a substantial amount of indebtedness,
    including long-term lease obligations.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, EME’s consolidated debt was
    $3.8 billion. In addition, EME’s subsidiaries have
    $3.9 billion of long-term power plant lease obligations
    that are due over a period ranging up to 27 years. The
    substantial amount of consolidated debt and financial
    obligations presents the risk that EME and its subsidiaries
    might not have sufficient cash to service their indebtedness or
    long-term lease obligations and that the existing corporate
    debt, project debt and lease obligations could limit the ability
    of EME and its subsidiaries to grow their business, to compete
    effectively or to operate successfully under adverse economic
    conditions or to plan for and react to business and industry
    changes. If EME’s or a subsidiary’s cash flows and
    capital resources were insufficient to allow it to make
    scheduled payments on its debt, EME or its subsidiaries might
    have to reduce or delay capital expenditures (including
    environmental improvements required by the CPS, which could in
    turn lead to unit shutdowns), sell assets, seek additional
    capital, or restructure or refinance the debt. The terms of
    EME’s or its subsidiaries’ debt may not allow these
    alternative measures, the debt or equity may not be available on
    acceptable terms, and these alternative measures may not satisfy
    all scheduled debt service obligations.


 


    In addition, in connection with the entry into new financings or
    amendments to existing financing arrangements, EME’s
    financial and operational flexibility may be further reduced as
    a result of more restrictive covenants, requirements for
    security and other terms that are often imposed on
    sub-investment grade entities.


 



    Restrictions
    in the instruments governing EME’s indebtedness and the
    indebtedness and lease obligations of its subsidiaries limit
    EME’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to enter into
    specified transactions that EME or they otherwise may enter
    into.


 


    The instruments governing EME’s indebtedness and the
    indebtedness of its subsidiaries contain financial and
    investment covenants. Restrictions contained in these documents
    or documents EME or its subsidiaries enter in the future could
    affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit,
    EME’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to, among
    other things, incur, refinance, and prepay debt, make capital
    expenditures, pay dividends and make other distributions, make
    investments, create liens, sell assets, enter into sale and
    leaseback transactions, issue equity interests, enter into
    transactions with affiliates, create restrictions on the



    
    43



Table of Contents




    ability to pay dividends or make other distributions and engage
    in mergers and consolidations. These restrictions may
    significantly impede EME’s ability and the ability of its
    subsidiaries to take advantage of business opportunities as they
    arise, to grow its business or to compete effectively. In
    addition, these restrictions may significantly impede the
    ability of EME’s subsidiaries to make distributions to EME.


 



    The
    creditworthiness of EME’s customers, suppliers,
    transporters and other business partners could affect EME’s
    business and operations.


 


    EME is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of
    its key customers, suppliers and business partners, many of whom
    may be adversely affected by the current conditions in the
    financial markets. Deterioration in the financial condition of
    EME’s counterparties increases the possibility that EME may
    incur losses from the failure of counterparties to perform
    according to the terms of their contractual arrangements.


 


    EME’s operations depend on contracts for the supply and
    transportation of fuel and other services required for the
    operation of its generation facilities and are exposed to the
    risk that counterparties to contracts will not perform their
    obligations. If a fuel supplier or transporter failed to perform
    under a contract, EME would need to obtain alternate supplies or
    transportation, which could result in higher costs or
    disruptions in its operations. If the defaulting counterparty is
    in poor financial condition, damages related to a breach of
    contract may not be recoverable. Accordingly, the failure of
    counterparties to fulfill their contractual obligations could
    have a material adverse effect on EME’s financial results.


 



    The
    accounting for EME’s hedging and proprietary trading
    activities may increase the volatility of its quarterly and
    annual financial results.


 


    EME engages in hedging activities in order to mitigate its
    exposure to market risk with respect to electricity sales from
    its generation facilities, fuel utilized by those facilities and
    emission allowances. EME generally attempts to balance its
    fixed-price physical and financial purchases and sales
    commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of
    performance and delivery obligations through the use of
    financial and physical derivative contracts. EME also uses
    derivative contracts with respect to its limited proprietary
    trading activities, through which EME attempts to achieve
    incremental returns by transacting where it has specific market
    expertise. These derivative contracts are recorded on its
    balance sheet at fair value pursuant to SFAS No. 133.
    Some of these derivative contracts do not qualify under
    SFAS No. 133 for hedge accounting, and changes in
    their fair value are therefore recognized currently in earnings
    as unrealized gains or losses. As a result, EME’s financial
    results will at times be volatile and subject to fluctuations in
    value primarily due to changes in electricity prices.



    
    44



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1B