Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

 

PART I

 

Item 1.  Business.

 

The Estée Lauder Companies Inc., founded in 1946 by Estée and Joseph
Lauder, is one of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of quality
skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  Our products are sold in over 140 countries
and territories under the following brand names: Estée Lauder, Aramis,
Clinique, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, American
Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™, Grassroots, Ojon and Eyes by Design.  We are also the global licensee for
fragrances and/or cosmetics sold under the Tommy Hilfiger, Kiton, Donna Karan,
Michael Kors, Sean John, Missoni, Daisy Fuentes, Tom Ford and Mustang brand
names.  Each brand is distinctly
positioned within the market for beauty products.

 

We are a pioneer in the cosmetics industry and believe we are a leader
in the industry due to the global recognition of our brand names, our
leadership in product innovation, our strong market position in key geographic
markets and the consistently high quality of our products.  We sell our prestige products principally
through limited distribution channels to complement the images associated with
our brands.  These channels, encompassing
over 25,000 points of sale, consist primarily of upscale department stores,
specialty retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and
spas.  In addition, our products are sold
in freestanding company-owned stores and spas, our own and authorized retailer
websites, stores on cruise ships, direct response television (“DRTV”),
in-flight and duty-free shops and certain fragrances are sold in self-select
outlets.  We believe that our strategy of
pursuing limited distribution strengthens our relationships with retailers,
enables our brands to be among the best selling product lines at the stores and
heightens the aspirational quality of our brands.

 

For a discussion of recent developments, see “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations – Results of Operations – Overview.”

 

We have been controlled by the Lauder family since the founding of our
company.  Members of the Lauder family,
some of whom are directors, executive officers and/or employees, beneficially
own, directly or indirectly, as of August 15, 2008, shares of Class A
Common Stock and Class B Common Stock having approximately 87.8% of the
outstanding voting power of the Common Stock.

 

Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our”
and the “Company” refer to The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. and its
subsidiaries.

 

Products

 

Skin Care - Our
broad range of skin care products addresses various skin care needs for women
and men.  These products include
moisturizers, creams, lotions, cleansers, sun screens and self-tanning
products, a number of which are developed for use on particular areas of the
body, such as the face or the hands or around the eyes.  Skin care products accounted for approximately
38% of our net sales in fiscal 2008.

 

Makeup - We
manufacture, market and sell a full array of makeup products, including
lipsticks, lip glosses, mascaras, foundations, eyeshadows, nail polishes and
powders.  Many of the products are
offered in an extensive array of shades and colors.  We also sell related items such as compacts,
brushes and other makeup tools.  Makeup
products accounted for approximately 38% of our net sales in fiscal 2008.

 

Fragrance - We offer
a variety of fragrance products for women and men.  The fragrances are sold in various forms,
including eau de parfum sprays and colognes, as well as lotions, powders,
creams and soaps that are based on a particular fragrance.  Fragrance products accounted for
approximately 18% of our net sales in fiscal 2008.

 

- 2 -










Table of Contents

 

Hair Care - Hair
care products are offered mainly in salons and in freestanding retail stores
and include hair color and styling products, shampoos, conditioners and
finishing sprays.  In fiscal 2008, hair
care products accounted for approximately 6% of our net sales.

 

Given the personal nature of our products and the wide array of
consumer preferences and tastes, as well as competition for the attention of
consumers, our strategy has been to market and promote our products through
distinctive brands seeking to address broad preferences and tastes.  Each brand has a single global image that is
promoted with consistent logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance
its image and differentiate it from other brands.

 

Estée Lauder - Estée
Lauder brand products, which have been sold since 1946, are positioned as
luxurious, classic and aspirational.  We
believe that Estée Lauder brand products are technologically advanced and
innovative and have a worldwide reputation for excellence.  The broad product line principally consists
of skin care, makeup and fragrance products that are presented in high quality
packaging.

 

Aramis and Designer Fragrances
- - Our Aramis and Designer Fragrances division creates and markets fragrance and
skin care products, including the following brand names:

·                  Aramis - We pioneered the marketing of prestige men’s
fragrance, grooming and skin care products with the introduction of Aramis
products in 1964.

·                  Lab Series - Lab Series Skincare for Men,
introduced by the Aramis and Designer Fragrances division in 1987, offers a
full range of products for cleansing, shaving, treatment and body that are
especially formulated to answer the unique needs of men’s skin.

·                  Tommy Hilfiger - We have an exclusive global license
arrangement to develop and market a line of men’s and women’s fragrances and
cosmetics under the Tommy Hilfiger brand name. 
We launched the line in 1995 with a men’s fragrance, tommy.  Today, we
manufacture and sell a variety of fragrances and ancillary products for men and
women.

·                  Donna Karan Cosmetics -  In November 1997,
we obtained the exclusive global license to develop, market and distribute a
line of fragrances and other cosmetics under the Donna Karan New York and DKNY
brand names, including certain products that were originally sold by The Donna
Karan Company.  We launched the first
DKNY women’s fragrance in fiscal 2000 and the first DKNY men’s fragrance in
fiscal 2001.  Under this license,
fragrances have been expanded to include extensive lines of companion bath and
body products.

·                  Michael Kors - In May 2003, we entered into a license
agreement for fragrances and beauty products under the Michael Kors brand name
and purchased certain related rights and inventory from another party.  The fragrances, as well as ancillary bath and
body products, are sold in department stores, specialty stores, at freestanding
Michael Kors boutiques and over the Internet.

·                  Sean John Fragrances - In 2005, we entered into an exclusive
license agreement to develop fragrances and other beauty products under the
Sean John brand name.  Sean “Diddy” Combs
played an active role in creating the signature scent, “Unforgivable.”  The Unforgivable fragrance and ancillary
products are primarily available at select department and specialty stores as
well as travel retail outlets around the world.

·                  Missoni - In 2006, we launched fragrance and ancillary
products under our exclusive global licensing agreement with Milan-based
fashion house, Missoni.  Missoni products
are sold in select distribution channels worldwide.

 

In addition to the foregoing brands, we market and sell Mustang and
Kiton products as a licensee.

 

Clinique - First
introduced in 1968, Clinique skin care and makeup products are all allergy
tested and 100% fragrance free and have been designed to address individual
skin types and needs.  The products are
based on the research and related expertise of leading dermatologists.  Clinique skin care products are generally
marketed as part of the 3-Step System: Cleanse, Exfoliate, Moisturize.  Clinique also offers fragrances and a line of
hair care products.

 

Prescriptives -
Introduced in 1979 and sold in five countries, Prescriptives focuses on
delivering flawless-looking skin—for all skins, from lightest to darkest.  Signature services include the
ultra-personalized artistry of Custom Blend Makeup and complimentary
Colorprinting, which leads the customer to her exact match foundation and
customizable color cosmetics. 
Prescriptives also features a personalized skin care regime for all
skins.  The products are visually
compelling and of minimalist design with a modern, innovative image.

 

Origins - Origins
was introduced in 1990.  It is positioned
as a plant-based line of skin care, makeup and aromatherapy products that
combine time-tested botanical ingredients with modern science to promote total
well-being.  Origins sells its products
at our freestanding Origins stores and through stores-within-stores (which are
designed to replicate the Origins store environment within a department store),
at traditional retail counters, in perfumeries and directly to consumers over
the Internet.  Origins Organics™ is the
first full line of prestige skin, body and hair care products to be certified
under the USDA National Organic Program. 
Origins also has a license agreement to develop and sell products using
the name of Dr. Andrew Weil.

 

- 3 -










Table of Contents

 

MžAžC - MžAžC
products comprise a broad line of color-oriented, professional cosmetics and
professional makeup tools targeting makeup artists and fashion-conscious
consumers.  The products are sold through
a limited number of department and specialty stores, at freestanding MžAžC
stores and directly to consumers over the Internet.  We acquired the companies behind MžAžC
in three stages: in December 1994, March 1997 and February 1998.

 

Bobbi Brown - In October 1995,
we acquired the Bobbi Brown line of color cosmetics, professional makeup
brushes and skin care products.  Bobbi
Brown products are manufactured to our specifications, primarily by third
parties, and sold through a limited number of department and specialty stores
and directly to consumers over the Internet.

 

La Mer - La Mer
products primarily consist of moisturizing creams, lotions, cleansers, toners
and other skin care products.  The line,
which is available in very limited distribution in the United States and
certain other countries, is an extension of the initial Crème de la Mer product
that we acquired in 1995.

 

Aveda - We acquired
the Aveda business in December 1997 and have since acquired selected Aveda
distributors and retail stores.  Aveda, a
prestige hair care leader, is a manufacturer and marketer of plant-based hair
care, skin care, makeup and fragrance products. 
We sell Aveda products to third-party distributors and prestige salons
and spas, cosmetology schools, certain non-U.S. department stores and specialty
retailers and directly to consumers at our own freestanding Aveda Experience
Centers and certain Aveda Institutes.

 

Jo Malone - We
acquired London-based Jo Malone Limited in October 1999.  Jo Malone is known for its prestige skin
care, fragrance and hair care products showcased at its flagship store in
London.  Products are also available
through a company catalogue, at freestanding stores and at a very limited group
of specialty stores, primarily in the United States, Canada and the United
Kingdom.

 

Bumble and bumble -
In September 2006, we acquired the remaining minority equity interest in
Bumble and bumble.  We acquired a
controlling majority equity interest in June 2000.  Bumble and bumble is a New York-based hair
care and education company with two salons that creates high-quality hair care
and styling products distributed through other top-tier salons and select
prestige retailers.  We also provide
business and design education to the Bumble and bumble network of independent
salons.

 

Darphin - In April 2003,
we acquired Laboratoires Darphin, the Paris-based company dedicated to the
development, manufacture and marketing of prestige skin care and makeup
products which are distributed primarily through high-end independent
pharmacies and specialty stores.

 

BeautyBank -
BeautyBank is our entrepreneurial think tank division whose mission is to
develop brands and products for consumers shopping outside of the traditional
department store channel on a worldwide basis. 
Brands developed under the BeautyBank umbrella include:

·                  American Beauty - Launched in 2004, the luxurious fragrance,
makeup and advanced skin care line celebrates the beauty of American
style.  These products, which are sold in
the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and Kohls.com, have been
developed to meet the needs of the modern American woman, with a
straightforward makeup and skin care appeal.

·                  Flirt! -  Launched in
2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and Kohls.com,
this makeup line is all about experimenting with color, pop culture and trends;
“you can Flirt! with the possibilities.”

·                  Good Skin™ -  Launched in
2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and Kohls.com,
this line of skin care products was created with the expertise of a
dermatologist.   This line is color-coded for ease of use.  Select products of this brand are now
available in a number of countries around the world.  good skin, easy to choose,
easy to use, doctor formulated for you.™

·                  Grassroots -  Introduced in
2005 and sold  in the United States at Kohl’s
Department Stores and Kohls.com, Grassroots offers a range of wholesome,
naturally-sourced products to help care for you and your family.  This line’s seven product categories include
face, body, hair, post-pregnancy, babies, kids and pets.

·                  Daisy Fuentes - In early fiscal 2007, we launched Dianoche,
the first fragrance under our license agreement with Daisy Fuentes.  Dianoche holds two scents that connect in a
single bottle and is available exclusively at Kohl’s Department Stores
nationwide or online at Kohls.com.

·                  Eyes by Design - A line of makeup products for the eyes
developed for exclusive distribution on HSN, a DRTV channel, and HSN.com that
BeautyBank launched in July 2008.

 

Tom Ford - In 2006,
we entered into a license agreement to develop fragrances and other beauty
products under the Tom Ford brand name. 
In fiscal 2007, we introduced Tom Ford Black Orchid, his first signature
fragrance.

 

Ojon - In 2007, we
acquired Ojon Corporation, a company based in Canada which markets
naturally-derived, wildcrafted hair and skin care beauty products using
ingredients found in the world’s rainforests.

 

Our core brands are Estée Lauder, Aramis and Designer Fragrances,
Clinique, Prescriptives and Origins.  MžAžC
and Bobbi Brown are our makeup artist brands.

 

- 4 -










Table of Contents

 

Distribution

 

We sell our products principally through limited distribution channels
to complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels include more than 25,000
points of sale in over 140 countries and territories and consist primarily of
upscale department stores, specialty retailers, upscale perfumeries and
pharmacies and prestige salons and spas. 
In addition, our products are sold in freestanding company-owned stores
and spas, our own and authorized retailer websites, stores on cruise ships,
DRTV, in-flight and duty-free shops and certain fragrances are sold in
self-select outlets.

 

We maintain a dedicated sales force which sells to our retail accounts
in North America and in the major overseas markets, such as Western Europe and
Japan.  We have wholly-owned operations
in over 40 countries, and controlling interests in joint ventures that operate
in four other countries, through which we market, sell and distribute our
products.  In certain countries, we sell
our products through selected local distributors under contractual arrangements
designed to protect the image and position of the brands.  In addition, we sell certain products in
select domestic and international military locations.  For
information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region,
see Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is
incorporated herein by reference.

 

We sell Aveda products principally to independent salons and spas,
cosmetology schools, third-party distributors and specialty retailers and
directly to consumers at our own freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and
certain Aveda Institutes.  There are
currently about 7,200 points of sale, primarily in the United States, that sell
Aveda products.  Bumble and bumble
products are principally sold to about 2,500 independent salons, primarily in
the United States.  Darphin products are
principally sold through high-end independent pharmacies, principally in
Europe, representing approximately 3,700 points of sale.

 

As part of our strategy to diversify our distribution, we have been
selectively expanding the number of single-brand, freestanding stores that we
operate.  The Origins, Aveda and MžAžC
brands are the primary focus for this method of distribution.  At this time, we operate 577 single-brand,
freestanding stores worldwide, the majority of which are in the United States,
and expect that number to increase moderately over the next several years.  We also operate 90 multi-brand stores.

 

We sell American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™, Grassroots and Dianoche, by
Daisy Fuentes in approximately 1,000 Kohl’s Department Stores in the United
States.

 

We currently sell products from 16 of our brands directly to consumers
over the Internet through our own e-commerce sites.  Some or all of these brands are sold in the following
countries: the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, France, Korea and
Canada.

 

As is customary in the cosmetics industry, our practice is to accept
returns of our products from retailers if properly requested, authorized and
approved.  In accepting returns, we
typically provide a credit to the retailer against sales and accounts
receivable from that retailer on a dollar-for-dollar basis.  In recognition of this practice, and in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we report
revenues on a net sales basis, which reflects the amount of actual returns
received and an amount established for anticipated returns.  As a percentage of gross sales, returns were
4.4%, 4.2% and 5.0% in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

 

Customers

 

Our strategy is to build strong strategic relationships with selected
retailers globally.  Senior management
works with executives of our major retail accounts on a regular basis and we
believe we are viewed as an important supplier to these customers.  During fiscal 2006, Federated Department
Stores, Inc. acquired The May Department Stores Company, resulting in
the merger of our previous two largest customers (collectively “Macy’s, Inc.”).  As of and for the fiscal years ended June 30,
2008, 2007 and 2006, Macy’s, Inc. accounted for 11%, 12% and 14%,
respectively, of our accounts receivable and 12%, 14% and 16%, respectively, of
our consolidated net sales.

 

Marketing

 

Our marketing strategy is built around our vision statement: “Bringing
the Best to Everyone We Touch.”  Mrs. Estée
Lauder formulated this marketing philosophy to provide high-quality service and
products as the foundation for a solid and loyal consumer base.

 

- 5 -










Table of Contents

 

Our marketing efforts focus principally on promoting the quality and
benefits of our products.  Each of our
brands is distinctively positioned, has a single global image, and is promoted
with consistent logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image
and differentiate it from other brands. 
We regularly advertise our products on television and radio, in upscale
magazines and newspapers and through direct mail and photo displays at
international airports.  In addition, our
products receive extensive editorial coverage in prestige publications and
other media worldwide.  Promotional
activities and in-store displays are designed to introduce existing consumers
to different products in the line and to attract new consumers.  Our marketing efforts also benefit from
cooperative advertising programs with retailers, some of which are supported by
coordinated promotions, such as purchase with purchase and gift with
purchase.  Our marketing and sales
executives spend considerable time in the field meeting with consumers and key
retailers and consulting with sales representatives at the points of sale.  These include Estée Lauder Beauty Advisors,
Clinique Consultants, Aramis Selling Specialists, Prescriptives Analysts,
Origins Guides and MžAžC
Makeup Artists.  At in-store counters,
sales representatives offer personal demonstrations to market individual
products as well as to provide education on basic skin care and makeup
application.  We conduct extensive
sampling programs and we pioneered gift with purchase as a sampling
program.  We believe that the quality and
perceived benefits of sample products have been effective inducements to
purchases by new and existing consumers.

 

Starting with the launch of the Clinique website in 1996, we have used
the Internet to educate and inform consumers about certain of our brands.  Currently, 19 of our brands have marketing
sites, 16 of which have e-commerce capabilities.

 

Most of our creative marketing work is done by in-house creative
teams.  The creative staff designs and
produces the sales materials, advertisements and packaging for all products in
each brand.

 

Global net expenses for advertising, merchandising, sampling and
promotion were $2,034.6 million, $1,841.9 million and $1,721.1 million in
fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 
These amounts include activities relating to purchase with purchase and
gift with purchase promotions that are reflected in net sales and cost of
sales.

 

Information Systems

 

Information systems support business processes including product
development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution and
finance.  Of the many systems currently
being utilized, the most significant to our business needs are: (i) a
centralized data repository of essential attributes for each of the products we
offer, or plan to offer, which enables us to globally manufacture and market
products of consistent quality; (ii) a sales analysis system to track
weekly sales at the stock keeping unit (SKU) level at most significant retail
sales locations (i.e., sell-through data), increasing our understanding of
consumer preferences and enabling us to coordinate more effectively our product
development, manufacturing and marketing strategies; (iii) an automated
replenishment system with many of our key domestic customers, allowing us to
replenish inventories for individual points of sale automatically, with minimal
paperwork; and (iv) an inventory management system to provide us with a
global view of finished goods availability relative to actual requirements.

 

We expect that these systems will continue to provide pertinent
inventory and sales data in the short term. 
However, as part of our long-term effort to enhance these systems and
increase productivity, we are implementing our Strategic Modernization
Initiative (“SMI”), which includes an enterprise-wide global program that we
expect will deliver a single set of integrated data, processes and
technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize business
processes across brands, operating units and sales affiliates.  The initial implementation of SMI at our
Aveda operating unit occurred in May 2007 and we believe it is operating
effectively.  We anticipate SMI implementation
will continue at additional primary locations in fiscal 2009, with the majority
of our business to be implemented through fiscal 2012.

 

Research and Development

 

We believe that we are an industry leader in
the development of new products.  Marketing, product development and
packaging groups work with our research and development group to identify
shifts in consumer preferences, develop new products and improve, redesign or
reformulate existing products.  In addition, research and development personnel
work closely with quality assurance and manufacturing personnel on a worldwide
basis to provide ongoing technical assistance and know-how, to ensure
consistent global standards for our products and to deliver products with
attributes that fulfill consumer expectations. 
The research and development group has long-standing working
relationships with several U.S. and international medical and educational
facilities, which supplement internal capabilities.  Members of the group
are also responsible for regulatory compliance matters.

 

We do not conduct animal testing on our
products or ingredients, nor ask others to test on our behalf, except when
required by law.  We evaluate our
finished products in clinical tests on volunteer panels.

 

We maintain ongoing research and development
programs at our facilities in Melville, New York; Oevel, Belgium; Petersfield,
U.K.; Tokyo, Japan; Markham, Ontario; Blaine, Minnesota; Shanghai, China; and
Colombes, France.  As of June 30, 2008, we had approximately 450
employees engaged in research and development.  Research and development
expenditures totaled $80.9 million, $74.4 million and $72.0 million in
fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

 

- 6 -










Table of Contents

 

Manufacturing, Warehousing and Raw Materials

 

We manufacture skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products
primarily in the United States, Belgium, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Canada
and France.  We continue to streamline
our manufacturing processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve
innovation, increase efficiencies and reduce costs.  Our major manufacturing facilities operate as
“focus” plants that primarily manufacture one type of product (e.g., lipsticks)
for all of the principal brands.  Our
plants are modern and our manufacturing processes are substantially
automated.  While we believe that our
manufacturing facilities are sufficient to meet current and reasonably
anticipated manufacturing requirements, we continue to identify opportunities
to make significant improvements in capacity and productivity.  To capitalize on innovation and other supply
benefits, we continue to utilize third parties on a global basis for finished
goods production, including an increased volume in Asia/Pacific to support our
international growth.

 

We have established a global distribution network designed to meet the
changing demands of our customers while maintaining service levels.  We are continuously evaluating and
restructuring this physical distribution network.  We have begun to establish regional inventory
centers strategically positioned throughout the world in order to facilitate
timely delivery of our products to our customers.

 

The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are
essential oils, alcohol and specialty chemicals.  We also purchase packaging components that
are manufactured to our design specifications. 
Procurement of materials for all manufacturing facilities is generally
made on a global basis through our Global Supplier Relations department.  In recent years, we made a concentrated
effort in supplier rationalization with the specific objective of reducing
costs, increasing innovation and improving quality.  In addition, we continue to focus on supply
sourcing within the region of manufacture to allow for improved supply chain
efficiencies.  As a result of sourcing
initiatives, there is increased dependency on certain suppliers, but we believe
that these suppliers have adequate resources and facilities to overcome any
unforeseen interruption of supply.  We
are continually benchmarking the performance of the supply chain and will add
or delete suppliers based upon the changing needs of the business.  In the past, we have been able to obtain an
adequate supply of essential raw materials and currently believe we have
adequate sources of supply for virtually all components of our products.  As we integrate acquired brands, we
continually seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities
to improve manufacturing performance.

 

Competition

 

The skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair
care businesses are characterized by vigorous competition throughout the
world.  Brand recognition, quality, performance
and price have a significant impact on consumers’ choices among competing
products and brands.  Advertising,
promotion, merchandising, the pace and timing of new product introductions,
line extensions and the quality of in-store sales staff also have a significant
impact on consumers’ buying decisions. 
With our numerous brands, sold in various channels, we are one of the
world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and
hair care products.  We compete against a
number of companies, some of which have substantially greater resources than we
do.

 

Our principal competitors among manufacturers and marketers of skin
care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products include:

·                Alticor, which
markets Artistry, NAO and Laura Mercier Cosmetics and Skincare;

·                AmorePacific Corporation;

·                Avon Products Inc.,
a direct marketer of Avon Color, Anew, Avon Naturals, Advance Techniques,
Skin-so-soft, mark, and other products;

·                Bare Escentuals, Inc.,
which markets its bareMinerals, RareMinerals and Bare Escentuals brands.  It also markets professional skin care
products under its md formulations brand;

·                Beiersdorf AG,
which markets Nivea, Eucerin, La Prairie, Juvena, Florena and other brands;

·                The Carlyle Group,
which markets philosophy;

·                Chanel, Inc.;

·                Clarins S.A.,
which markets Clarins, Azzaro, Thierry Mugler, Porsche Design, David Yurman,
Stella Cadente, Swarovski and other brands, and holds a minority stake in Kibio
and L’Occitane International;

·                Coty, Inc.,
which markets Calvin Klein, Cerruti, Chloé, Chopard, Davidoff, House of Phat,
Jennifer Lopez, Jette Joop, Jill Sander, JOOP!, Kenneth Cole, Lancaster, Marc
Jacobs, Nautica, Nikos, Sarah Jessica Parker, Vera Wang, Vivienne Westwood and
other brands;

·                Elizabeth Arden, Inc.,
which markets Elizabeth Arden, Elizabeth Taylor, Halston, Britney Spears,
Prevage, Hummer, Hillary Duff, Danielle Steel, Daytona 500, Gant, Giorgio
Beverley Hills, Mariah Carey, Badgley Mischka, Nanette Lepore, Alfred Sung and
others;

·                Johnson & Johnson,
which markets AMBI Skincare, Aveeno, Clean & Clear, Vendome,
Lubriderm, Neutrogena, Purpose, RoC, Piz Buin and other brands;

·                Kao Corporation,
which markets Sofina, Kanebo, Molton Brown, Biore, Jergens, John Frieda,
Goldwell, KMS, HADA KA, Phytomax, KPSS, and other brands;

 

- 7 -










Table of Contents

 

·                L’Oreal S.A., which markets Lancôme, Biotherm, Helena
Rubinstein, Kiehl’s, Shu Uemura, Giorgio Armani, Ralph Lauren, Cacharel, Viktor &
Rolf, Diesel, Vichy, La Roche-Posay, Innéov, SkinCeuticals, Garnier, L’Oreal
Paris, Maybelline NY, SoftSheen-Carson, Kérastase, Redken, Matrix, Mizani,
Sanoflore, The Body Shop, YSL Beaute, Stella McCartney and other brands;

·                LVMH Moët Hennessey Louis
Vuitton (“LVMH”), which markets Dior, Guerlain, Givenchy, Kenzo,
Benefit, Fresh, Make Up For Ever, Aqua di Parma, Loewe and other brands;

·                Natura Cosméticos S.A.;

·                Nu Skin Enterprises;

·                The Procter &
Gamble Company, which markets SK-II, Cover Girl, Olay, Noxema,
Giorgio Beverly Hills, Hugo Boss, Escada, Lacoste, bruno banani, Ghost, Puma,
Naomi Campbell, Infusium, Max Factor, Pantene, Clairol, Wella, Valentino,
Aussie, Dolce & Gabbana, Baldessarini, Frederick Fekkai and other brands;

·                Revlon, Inc.,
which markets Revlon, Color Stay, New Complexion, Revlon Age Defying, Almay,
Ultima II, Flex, Mitchum and Charlie;

·                Shiseido Company, Ltd.,
which markets Shiseido, Clé de Peau Beauté, Nars, Decléor, Issey Miyake, Jean
Paul Gaultier, Carita, Aupres, and other brands;

·                Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide, Inc., which markets Bliss; and

·                Unilever N.V.,
which markets Dove, Pond’s, Sunsilk, Vaseline, Lux, Axe and other brands.

 

We also face competition from a number of independent brands, such as
dr. brandt, MD Skincare, Murad, Obagi, Paul Mitchell, Paula Dorf, N.V.
Perricone M.D., tarte, TIGI, and Trish McEvoy.

 

Additionally, some retailers have developed their own beauty brands,
such as:

·                  Alliance Boots Group, which markets No 7 and Botanics
products;

·                  Gap Inc., which markets The Gap, Old Navy and Banana
Republic products;

·                  Limited Brands Inc., which markets Victoria’s Secret Beauty,
Bath and Body Works, c.o. bigelow; and

·                  Sephora.

 

Some of our
competitors also have ownership interests in retailers that are customers of
ours.  For example, LVMH has interests in
DFS Group LTD, Miami Cruiseline Services, Le Bon Marché, la Samaritaine,
eLuxury, and Sephora.

 

Trademarks, Patents and Copyrights

 

The trademarks used in our business include the brand names Estée
Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, Tommy Hilfiger,
Donna Karan, DKNY, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Michael
Kors, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™, Grassroots, Ojon and Eyes by Design
and the names of many of the products sold under these brands.  We own the material trademark rights used in
connection with the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of most of our
major products both in the United States and in the other principal countries
where such products are sold.  We are the
exclusive worldwide licensee for fragrances, cosmetics and/or related products
for Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, DKNY, Kiton, Michael Kors, Sean John, Missoni,
Daisy Fuentes and Tom Ford.  Origins
sells products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil and Aramis and Designer
Fragrances sells a fragrance in the Americas region using the name Mustang, in
each case pursuant to a license agreement. 
We protect our trademarks for our principal products in the United
States and significant markets worldwide. 
We consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our
business.

 

A number of our products incorporate patented, patent-pending or
proprietary technology in formulations or packaging.  In addition, several products are covered by
design patents, patent applications or copyrights.  While we consider these patents and
copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be important, no single patent or
copyright is considered material to the conduct of our business.

 

Employees

 

At June 30, 2008, we had approximately 32,000 full-time employees
worldwide (including sales representatives at points of sale who are employed
by us), of whom approximately 13,400 are employed in the United States and
Canada.  None of our employees in the
United States is covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  In certain other countries, a limited number
of employees are covered by a works council agreement or other syndicate
arrangements.  We believe that relations
with our employees are good.  We have
never encountered a material strike or work stoppage in the United States
or in any other country where we have a significant number of employees.

 

- 8 -










Table of Contents

 

Government Regulation

 

We and our products are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug
Administration and the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, as well
as by various other Federal, state, local and international regulatory
authorities and the regulatory authorities in the countries in which our
products are produced or sold.  Such
regulations principally relate to the ingredients, labeling, packaging and
marketing of our products.  We believe
that we are in substantial compliance with such regulations, as well as with
applicable Federal, state, local and international and other countries’ rules and
regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the
environment.  There are no significant
capital expenditures for environmental control matters either planned in the
current year or expected in the near future. 
Along with other unrelated parties, we have been named as a potentially
responsible party by the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New
York with regard to a landfill in Long Island, New York.  See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”

 

Seasonality

 

Our results of operations in total, by region and by product category,
are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with net sales in the first half of the
fiscal year typically being slightly higher than in the second half of the
fiscal year.  The higher net sales in the
first half of the fiscal year are attributable to the increased levels of
purchasing by retailers for the holiday selling season and for fall fashion
makeup introductions.  Many of our
customers that are retailers follow a 4-4-5 retail calendar which may influence
the amount and timing of their order placement and receipt of goods in any
fiscal quarter.  In a traditional 4-4-5
retail calendar, each fiscal quarter is comprised of two 4-week periods and one
5-week period, with one extra week in one quarter every seven years.  As a result, the retail quarter-end and the
fiscal quarter-end may be different by up to six days.  Fluctuations in net sales and operating
income in total and by geographic region and product category in any fiscal
quarter may be attributable to the level and scope of new product
introductions.  Additionally, gross
margins and operating expenses are impacted on a quarter-by-quarter basis by
variations in our launch calendar and the timing of promotions, including
purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.

 

Availability of Reports

 

We make available financial information, news releases and other
information on our website at www.elcompanies.com.  There is a direct link from the website to
our Securities and Exchange Commission filings via the EDGAR database, where
our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge as soon as reasonably
practicable after we file such reports and amendments with, or furnish them to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these
reports without charge.

 

Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct

 

The Board of Directors has developed corporate governance practices to
help it fulfill its responsibilities to stockholders in providing general direction
and oversight of management.  These practices are set forth in our
Corporate Governance Guidelines.  We also have a Code of Conduct (“Code”)
applicable to all employees, officers and directors of the Company, including,
without limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer
and other senior financial officers.  These documents, the charters for
the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Board Affairs
Committee, and any waiver of a provision of the Code granted to any senior
officer or director or material amendment to the Code, if any, may be found in
the “Investors” section of our website: www.elcompanies.com under the
heading “Corporate Governance.” 
Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these
documents without charge.

 

- 9 -

 









Table of Contents

 

Executive Officers

 

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our
executive officers:

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Position(s) Held
  
 
 
  
  Malcolm Bond
  
  
   
  
  
  58
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Global Operations
  
 
 
  
  Daniel J.
  Brestle
  
  
   
  
  
  63
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice
  Chairman and President, ELC North America
  
 
 
  
  John Demsey
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  President
  
 
 
  
  Amy DiGeso
  
  
   
  
  
  56
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Global Human Resources
  
 
 
  
  Fabrizio
  Freda
  
  
   
  
  
  50
  
  
   
  
  
  President
  and Chief Operating Officer
  
 
 
  
  Harvey
  Gedeon
  
  
   
  
  
  65
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Research and Development and Product Innovation
  
 
 
  
  Richard W.
  Kunes
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
  
 
 
  
  Evelyn H.
  Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  72
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior
  Corporate Vice President
  
 
 
  
  Leonard A. Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  75
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman of
  the Board of Directors
  
 
 
  
  Ronald S.
  Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  64
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman of
  Clinique Laboratories, LLC and a Director
  
 
 
  
  William P.
  Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
  
  Chief
  Executive Officer and a Director
  
 
 
  
  Sara E. Moss
  
  
   
  
  
  61
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President and General Counsel 
  
 
 
  
  Gregory F. Polcer
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Global Supply Chain 
  
 
 
  
  Cedric
  Prouvé
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  President
  
 
 
  
  Alexandra C.
  Trower
  
  
   
  
  
  44
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Global Communications
  
 


 

Malcolm Bond became
Executive Vice President – Global Operations in July 2004 and, through July 2008,
he was responsible for Global Direct Procurement, Manufacturing, Logistics and
Employee Health and Safety.  From January 2001 through June 2004,
Mr. Bond was Senior Vice President, Global Manufacturing and
Distribution.  From January 1999 to January 2001, he was Senior
Vice President, Manufacturing, during which time his responsibilities also
included corporate engineering and supply chain.  From September 1997
to January 1999, he was Vice President, Focus Factories, responsible for
all of our factory operations.  Mr. Bond joined us in September 1995
as General Manager of our U.K. manufacturing operations, with responsibility
for South African and Australian operations as well.  It is expected that through September 30,
2008, Mr. Bond will assist in the transition of his responsibilities,
after which he will become Executive Vice President – SMI and Special Projects,
but will cease to be an executive officer.

 

Daniel J. Brestle
became Vice Chairman & President, ELC North America in March 2008.   He
is responsible for leading the Company’s North American business across its
multiple distribution channels.  In
addition, he oversees the Estée Lauder, MžAžC,
Prescriptives, Origins, Ojon and Tom Ford Beauty brands, and the BeautyBank
Division.  From January 2005 through
February 2008 he served as Chief Operating Officer of the Company. 
From July 2001 to January 2005, Mr. Brestle had been Group
President with global responsibility for our specialty brands, including Aveda,
Bobbi Brown, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Jo Malone, La Mer, Prescriptives,
Rodan + Fields and Stila.  He also
oversaw the launch of BeautyBank and its first four brands.  From July 1998
through June 2001, he was President of Estée Lauder (USA &
Canada).  Prior to July 1998, he was President of Clinique
Laboratories, Inc. and had been the senior officer of that division since
1992.  From 1988 through 1992, he was President of Prescriptives
U.S.A.  Mr. Brestle joined us in 1978.

 

John Demsey was
appointed Group President in July 2006.  In this role, he is
responsible for the Estée Lauder, MžAžC,
Sean John, Prescriptives and Tom Ford Beauty brands.  In January 2005,
Mr. Demsey became Global Brand President of Estée Lauder after serving as
President and Managing Director of MžAžC
since 1998.  From 1991 to 1998, he held several positions with Estée
Lauder, including Senior Vice President of Sales and Education for Estée Lauder
USA and Canada.  Before joining us, he worked for Revlon, Borghese,
Alexandra de Markoff Cosmetics, and Lancaster Cosmetics.  He also held
various executive retail positions at Bloomingdale’s, Macy’s, Benetton and Saks
Fifth Avenue.  Mr. Demsey serves as Chairman of the MžAžC
AIDS Fund and is active in many other AIDS-related organizations.

 

Amy DiGeso became Executive
Vice President - Global Human Resources in May 2006.  From May 2005,
when she joined us, to May 2006 she was Senior Vice President - Global
Human Resources.  She was Senior Partner - Global Human Resource in charge
of the Human Resources Department at PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP from May 2001
through June 2003.  From April 1999 through April 2001, Ms. DiGeso
was President of the Popular Club Plan, a direct sales subsidiary of Federated
Department Stores, and from May 1992 through December 1998, she
served in various executive capacities at Mary Kay, Inc., including Chief
Executive Officer from November 1996 through December 1998. 
Since June 2003, Ms. DiGeso has been engaged in various philanthropic
activities.

 

Fabrizio Freda became
President and Chief Operating Officer in March 2008.  In this role, he oversees Clinique, Bobbi
Brown, La Mer, Jo Malone, Darphin, Aveda, Bumble and bumble and the Aramis and
Designer Fragrances Division.  He is also
responsible for the Company’s International Division, as well as Global
Operations, Research and Development, Packaging, Quality Assurance, Merchandise
Design, Corporate Store Design and Retail Store Operations.  From 2001 through 2007, Mr. Freda was
President, Global Snacks, of The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”).  Prior to that position, he spent about a
decade in positions of increasing responsibility in P&G, including
positions within P&G’s Health and Beauty Care Division.

 

- 10 -










Table of Contents

 

Harvey Gedeon became
Executive Vice President - Research and Development in July 2004 and added
responsibilities for product innovation in July 2007.  From January 2000
to July 2004, he was Senior Vice President - Research and
Development.  Prior to joining us in January 2000, Mr. Gedeon
was Executive Vice President and General Manager, Research and Development and
Quality Assurance for Revlon, Inc. from 1997 through 1999.

 

Richard W. Kunes
became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2004. 
Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2000. 
He joined us in 1986 and served in various finance-related positions until November 1993,
when he was named Vice President – Operations Finance Worldwide.  From January 1998
through September 2000, Mr. Kunes was Vice President – Financial
Administration and Corporate Controller.  Prior to joining us, he held
finance and controller positions at the Colgate-Palmolive Company.  Mr. Kunes
is on the Board of Directors of Make-a-Wish Foundation of Suffolk County, NY, Inc.

 

Evelyn H. Lauder has
been Senior Corporate Vice President since 1989, and previously served as Vice
President and in other executive capacities since first joining us in 1959 as
Education Director.  She is a member of the Board of Overseers of Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, a member of the Boards of Trustees of Central
Park Conservancy, Inc., The Trinity School in New York City (Trustee
Emirata), a member of the Board of Directors of New Yorkers for Parks, an
Honorary Board Member of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories and the Founder and
Chairman of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation.

 

Leonard A. Lauder
has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1995.  He was our Chief Executive Officer from 1982
through 1999 and President from 1972 until 1995.  Mr. Lauder formally joined us in 1958
after serving as an officer in the United States Navy.  Since joining, he has held various positions,
including executive officer positions other than those described above.  He is Chairman Emeritus of the Board of
Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee of the
University of Pennsylvania, a Trustee of The Aspen Institute and the co-founder
and director of the Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation.  He also served as a member of the White House
Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.

 

Ronald S. Lauder has
served as Chairman of Clinique Laboratories, LLC since returning from
government service in 1987 and was Chairman of Estee Lauder International, Inc.
from 1987 through 2002.   Mr. Lauder joined the Company in 1964 and
has served in various capacities.  From
1983 to 1986, Mr. Lauder served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
for European and NATO Affairs.  From 1986
to 1987, he was U.S. Ambassador to Austria. 
He is non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Central
European Media Enterprises Ltd.  He is
also an Honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Museum of Modern Art.

 

William P. Lauder is
Chief Executive Officer of the Company.   He became President and Chief Executive
Officer on July 1, 2004.  From January 2003
through June 2004, he was Chief Operating Officer.  From July 2001 through 2002, he was
Group President responsible for the worldwide business of Clinique and Origins
and the Company’s retail store and on-line operations.  From 1998 to 2001, he was President of
Clinique Laboratories, LLC.  Prior to
1998, he was President of Origins Natural Resources Inc., and he had been the
senior officer of that division since its inception in 1990.  Prior thereto, he served in various positions
since joining the Company in 1986.  He is
a member of the Boards of Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania and The
Trinity School in New York City and the Boards of Directors of the Fresh Air
Fund, the 92nd Street Y, the Partnership for New York City,
True Temper Sports, Inc., GLG Partners Inc. and the Advisory Board of
Zelnick Media.

 

Sara E. Moss became
Executive Vice President in November 2004.  She joined us as Senior
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in September 2003.  She
was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes Inc. from 1996 to
February 2003, and Senior Litigation Partner for Howard, Smith &
Levin (now Covington & Burling) in New York from 1984 to 1996. 
Prior to 1984, Ms. Moss served as an Assistant United States Attorney in
the Criminal Division in the Southern District of New York, was an associate at
the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardwell and was Law Clerk to the
Honorable Constance Baker Motley, a U.S. District Judge in the Southern
District of New York.

 

Gregory F. Polcer
became Executive Vice President – Global Supply Chain in July 2008.
 He is responsible for Global Direct and Indirect Procurement,
Manufacturing, Logistics, Quality Assurance and Environmental Affairs and
Safety.  From 1988 to 2008, he worked for Unilever where he designed and
implemented global, regional and local initiatives.  Most recently, from
2006 to 2008, he served as the Senior Vice President, Supply Chain for Unilever
where he integrated the North and Latin American Supply Chains, provided senior
leadership for all global supply management and established a global
outsourcing plan.  He served as Senior Vice President, Supply Chain –
North America from 2005 to 2006 and Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, Home
and Personal Care – North America from 2002 to 2004.

 

Cedric Prouvé became
Group President in January 2003.  He is responsible for sales and
profits in our International Division, which includes all markets outside of
North America, our Travel Retail business worldwide and all of the activities
of our sales affiliates and certain distributor relationships.  From August 2000
through 2002 he was the General Manager of our Japanese sales affiliate. 
From January 1997 to August 2000, he was Vice President, General
Manager, Travel Retail.  He started with us in 1994 as General Manager,
Travel Retailing – Asia Pacific Region and was given the added responsibility
of General Manager of our Singapore affiliate in 1995.  Prior to joining
us he worked at L’Oreal in sales and management positions in the Americas and
Asia/Pacific.

 

- 11 -










Table of Contents

 

Alexandra C. Trower became
Executive Vice President - Global Communications in April, 2008.  She directs the Company’s overall communications
strategy, oversees brand communications, corporate communications, internal
communications and consumer communications. 
Before joining us, Ms. Trower was Senior Vice President, Media
Relations for Bank of America from January, 2004 to March, 2008.  From
1997 to 2002, she worked at JPMorgan Chase, where she was responsible for
corporate communications at JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management.

 

Each executive officer serves for a one-year term ending at the next
annual meeting of the Board of Directors, subject to his or her applicable
employment agreement and his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.

 

Item 1A. 
Risk Factors.

 

There are risks associated with an investment in our securities.

 

Please consider the following risks and all of the other information in
this annual report on Form 10-K and in our subsequent filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 
Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties
not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial.  If any of the events contemplated by the
following discussion of risks should occur or other risks arise or develop, our
business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, as well as
the trading prices of our securities, may be adversely affected.

 

The beauty business
is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results
will suffer.

 

We face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world,
including multinational consumer product companies.  Some of these
competitors have greater resources than we do and may be able to respond to
changing business and economic conditions more quickly than us. 
Competition in the beauty business is based on pricing of products, innovation,
perceived value, service to the consumer, promotional activities, advertising,
special events, new product introductions, electronic commerce initiatives and
other activities.  It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale
of our competitors’ actions in these areas.  In particular, the fragrance
category in the United States is influenced by the high volume of new product
introductions by diverse companies across several different distribution
channels.  Also, the trend toward
consolidation in the retail trade, particularly in developed markets such as
the United States and Western Europe, has resulted in us becoming increasingly
dependent on key retailers, including large-format retailers, who have
increased their bargaining strength. 
This trend has also resulted in an increased risk related to the
concentration of our customers.  A severe
adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material
adverse effect on us.  Our ability to compete also depends on the
continued strength of our brands, our ability to attract and retain key talent
and other personnel, the efficiency of our manufacturing facilities and
distribution network, and our ability to protect our intellectual
property.  Our inability to continue to compete effectively in countries
around the world could have an adverse impact on our business.

 

Our inability to
anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences
could adversely affect our financial results.

 

Our continued success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and
react in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer tastes for
skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products as well as to where and how
consumers shop for those products.  We must continually work to develop, produce
and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands,
achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and
where we market and sell our products.  While we devote considerable
effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, we
recognize that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can
change rapidly.  If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in
the market for our products and changing consumer demands, our financial
results will suffer.

 

Our future success depends on our ability to
achieve our long-term strategy.

 

Our long-term strategy is based on five strategic imperatives:

 

1.               Optimize
brand portfolio

2.               Strengthen
product categories

3.               Strengthen
and expand geographic presence

4.               Diversify
and strengthen distribution channels

5.               Achieve
operational and cost excellence

 

Achieving our long-term objectives may require investment in new
brands, categories, distribution channels, technologies and geographic
markets.  These investments may result in
short-term costs without any current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive
to our earnings, at least in the short term. 
In addition, we may dispose of select brands or streamline operations
and incur costs or one-time charges in doing so.  Although we believe that our strategic
imperatives will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, we may
not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits.  The failure to realize benefits, which may be
due to our ability to execute plans or other risks described herein, could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating
results.

 

- 12 -










Table of Contents

 

Any future acquisitions may expose us to
additional risks.

 

We continuously review acquisition
opportunities that would expand our current product offerings, our distribution
channels, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise
offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities.  If required, the financing for any of these
acquisitions could result in an increase in our indebtedness, dilute the
interests of our stockholders or both. 
Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including:

 

·                  difficulties in assimilating acquired
operations or products, including the loss of key employees from or customers
of acquired businesses;

·                  diversion of management’s attention from our
core businesses;

·                  adverse effects on existing business
relationships with suppliers and customers; and

·                  risks of entering distribution channels,
categories or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience.

 

Our failure to successfully complete the
integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and operating results.  In addition, there can be no assurance that
we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate
acquisitions on favorable terms.

 

A general economic
downturn or sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer
purchases of discretionary items and/or the financial strength of our customers
that are retailers, which could adversely affect our financial results.

 

The general level
of consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including general
economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, and consumer
confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control.  Consumer
purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods,
when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products.  A
decline in consumer purchases of discretionary items also tends to impact our
customers that are retailers.  We
generally extend credit to a retailer based on an evaluation of its financial
condition, usually without requiring collateral.  However, the financial difficulties of a
retailer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer.  We may also assume more credit risk relating
to the receivables from that retailer. 
Our inability to collect the receivable from one of our largest
customers or from a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on
our business and our financial condition. 
If a retailer was to liquidate, we may incur additional costs if we
choose to purchase the retailer’s inventory of our products to protect brand
equity.

 

In addition, sudden disruptions in business
conditions, for example, as a consequence of events such as the outbreak of
SARs in 2003 or those that are currently taking place in the Middle East, or as
a result of a terrorist attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks
or retaliation, or as a result of adverse weather conditions or climate
changes, can have a short and, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer
spending.

 

Events that impact consumers’ willingness or ability
to travel and/or purchase our products while traveling may impact our travel
retail business, which is a significant contributor to our overall results.

 

A downturn in the economies in which we sell our products or a sudden
disruption of business conditions in those economies could adversely affect our
sales and profitability.

 

Changes in laws,
regulations and policies that affect our business could adversely affect our
financial results.

 

Our business is subject to numerous laws, regulations and
policies.  Changes in the laws, regulations and policies, including the
interpretation or enforcement thereof, that affect, or will affect, our
business, including changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations,
trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal
or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result could
adversely affect our financial results.

 

Our success depends, in part, on the
quality and safety of our products.

 

Our success depends, in part, on the quality and
safety of our products.  If our products
are found to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our
consumers’ standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could
suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we
could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could
result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

- 13 -










Table of Contents

 

Our success depends, in part, on
our key personnel.

 

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain
our key personnel, including our executive officers and senior management
team.  The unexpected loss of one or more
of our key employees could adversely affect our business.  Our success also depends, in part, on our
continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified
personnel.  Competition for these
employees can be intense.  We may not be
able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and
our failure to do so could adversely affect our business.  This risk may be exacerbated by the stresses
associated with the implementation of SMI (as defined below) and other
initiatives.

 

We are subject to risks related
to our international operations.

 

We operate on a global basis, with approximately 59% of our fiscal 2008
net sales generated outside the United States.  We maintain offices in
over 40 countries and have key operational facilities located outside the
United States that manufacture, warehouse or distribute goods for sale throughout
the world.  Foreign operations are subject to many risks and
uncertainties, including:

 

·                     fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates, which can affect our results of operations, the value of our foreign
assets, the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products
in the same markets and the cost of certain inventory and non-inventory items
required in our operations;

·                     changes in foreign laws, regulations and
policies, including restrictions on trade, import and export license
requirements, and tariffs and taxes, as well as changes in United States laws
and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment; and

·                     adverse weather conditions, social, economic
and geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other military action.

 

These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business,
prospects, results of operations and financial condition.

 

A disruption in
operations could adversely affect our business and financial results.

 

As a company engaged in manufacturing and distribution on a global
scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including
industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes,
disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key
manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements
and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external
factors over which we have no control.  If such an event were to occur, it
could have an adverse affect on our business and financial results.

 

Our information systems and websites may be
susceptible to outages and other risks.

 

We have information systems that support our business processes,
including product development, marketing, sales, order processing, production,
distribution, finance and intracompany communications throughout the world.  We have e-commerce and other Internet
websites in the United States and many other countries.  These systems may be susceptible to outages
due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and
similar events.  Despite the implementation
of network security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to computer
viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering.  The occurrence of these or other events could
disrupt or damage our information systems and adversely affect our business and
results of operations.

 

We are subject to risks associated with
implementing global information systems.

 

As part of a program that we call our “Strategic Modernization
Initiative,” or “SMI,” we are implementing enterprise-wide global programs
intended to deliver a single set of integrated data, processes and
technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize business
processes across brands, operating units and sales affiliates.  The initial implementation of SMI at our
Aveda operating unit occurred in May 2007. 
We anticipate SMI implementation will continue at additional primary
locations in fiscal 2009, with the majority of our business to be implemented
through fiscal 2012.  Like most
entity-wide changes to software systems, the implementation of SMI involves
risks and uncertainties.  Failure to
implement SMI as planned, in terms of timing, specifications and/or costs,
could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

 

- 14 -










Table of Contents

 

The trading prices of our securities
periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our
earnings or other financial performance.

 

Our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term
strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any
particular fiscal quarter.  We believe
that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our
stockholders.  At the same time, however,
we recognize that it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to
our forecast of net sales and earnings. 
Accordingly, when we announced our year-end financial results for fiscal
2008, we provided guidance as to our expected net sales and earnings for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2009 and the quarter ending September 30,
2008.  While we generally expect to
provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter,
we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at
such times or otherwise.  In addition,
the longer-term guidance we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the
time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance
over a number of years.  Such targets are
more speculative than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations.

 

In all of our public statements when we make, or update, a
forward-looking statement about our sales and/or earnings expectations, we
accompany such statements directly, or by reference to a public document, with
a list of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from
those we expect.  Such a list is included,
among other places, in our earnings press release and in our periodic filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (e.g., in our reports on Form 10-K
and Form 10-Q).  These and other
factors may make it difficult for outside observers, such as research analysts,
to predict what our earnings will be in any given fiscal quarter or year.

 

Outside analysts, like all investors, have the right to make their own
predictions of our financial results for any future period.  Outside analysts, however, have access to no
more material information about our plans than any other public investor, and
we do not endorse their predictions as to our future performance.  Nor do we assume any responsibility to
correct the predictions of outside analysts or others when they differ from our
own internal expectations.  If and when
we announce actual results that differ from those that outside analysts or
others have been predicting, the market price of our securities could be
affected.  Investors who rely on the
predictions of outside analysts or others when making investment decisions with
respect to our securities do so at their own risk.  We take no responsibility for any losses
suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities.

 

Item 1B