Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

 

PART I

 

Item 1.  Business.

 

The Estée Lauder Companies
Inc., founded in 1946 by Estée and Joseph Lauder, is one of the world’s leading
manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair
care products.  Our products are sold in
over 130 countries and territories under the following well-recognized brand
names: Estée Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Origins, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Stila, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Rodan
+ Fields, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™, Donald Trump The Fragrance and
Grassroots.  We are also the global
licensee for fragrances and cosmetics sold under the Tommy Hilfiger, Donna
Karan and Michael Kors brand names.  Each
brand is distinctly positioned within the market for beauty products.

 

We are a pioneer in the
cosmetics industry and believe we are a leader in the industry due to the
global recognition of our brand names, our leadership in product innovation,
our strong market position in key geographic markets and the consistently high
quality of our products.  We sell our
prestige products principally through limited distribution channels to
complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels, encompassing over 20,000
points of sale, consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty
retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies, prestige salons and spas and, to
a lesser extent, freestanding company-owned stores and spas, our own and
authorized retailer web sites, stores on cruise ships, television direct
marketing, in-flight and duty-free shops. 
We believe that our strategy of pursuing limited distribution
strengthens our relationships with retailers, enables our brands to be among
the best selling product lines at the stores and heightens the aspirational
quality of our brands.

 

Beginning in fiscal 2005, we
began to sell our newly developed brands, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™
and Grassroots at Kohl’s Department Stores.

 

In February 2004, we sold the
assets and operations of our reporting unit that sold jane
brand products.  We acquired the brand in
October 1997.

 

We have been controlled by the
Lauder family since the founding of our company.  Members of the Lauder family, some of whom
are directors, executive officers and/or employees, beneficially own, directly
or indirectly, as of August 26, 2005, shares of Class A Common Stock and Class
B Common Stock having approximately 87.7% of the outstanding voting power of
the Common Stock.

 

Unless the context requires
otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to The Estée
Lauder Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries.

 

Products

 

Skin Care - Our broad range of skin care
products addresses various skin care needs for women and men.  These products include moisturizers, creams,
lotions, cleansers, sun screens and self-tanning products, a number of which
are developed for use on particular areas of the body, such as the face or the
hands or around the eyes.  Skin care
products accounted for approximately 37% of our net sales in fiscal 2005.

 

Makeup - We manufacture, market and sell a
full array of makeup products, including lipsticks, mascaras, foundations,
eyeshadows, nail polishes and powders. 
Many of the products are offered in an extensive array of shades and
colors.  We also sell related items such
as compacts, brushes and other makeup tools. 
Makeup products accounted for approximately 38% of our net sales in
fiscal 2005.

 

Fragrance - We offer a variety of fragrance
products for women and men.  The
fragrances are sold in various forms, including eau de parfum sprays and
colognes, as well as lotions, powders, creams and soaps that are based on a
particular fragrance.  Fragrance products
accounted for approximately 20% of our net sales in fiscal 2005.

 

2
















 

Hair Care - Hair care products are offered
mainly in salons and in freestanding retail stores and include hair color and
styling products, shampoos, conditioners and finishing sprays.  In fiscal 2005, hair care products accounted
for approximately 4% of our net sales.

 

Given the personal nature of
our products and the wide array of consumer preferences and tastes, as well as
competition for the attention of consumers, our strategy has been to market and
promote our products through distinctive brands seeking to address broad
preferences and tastes.  Each brand has a
single global image that is promoted with consistent logos, packaging and
advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it from other
brands.

 

Estée Lauder - Estée Lauder brand products,
which have been sold since 1946, are positioned as luxurious, classic and
aspirational.  We believe that Estée
Lauder brand products are technologically advanced and innovative and have a
worldwide reputation for excellence.  The
broad product line principally consists of skin care, makeup and fragrance
products that are presented in high quality packaging.  In April 2005, we announced a creative
collaboration with the fashion designer, Tom Ford, pursuant to which he will
collaborate with the Estée Lauder brand to create a Tom Ford for Estée Lauder
collection to be launched in the 2005 holiday season and expanded for Spring
2006.

 

Clinique - First introduced in 1968, Clinique
skin care and makeup products are all allergy tested and 100% fragrance free
and have been designed to address individual skin types and needs.  The products are based on the research and
related expertise of leading dermatologists. 
Clinique skin care products are generally marketed as part of the 3-Step
System: Cleanse, Exfoliate, Moisturize. 
Clinique also offers fragrances for men and women and a line of hair
care products.

 

Aramis - We pioneered the marketing of
prestige men’s grooming and skin care products and fragrances with the
introduction of Aramis products in 1964. 
Lab Series for Men, introduced by Aramis 17 years ago, offers the full
range of advanced products for cleansing, shaving, treatment and body that are
especially formulated to answer the unique needs of men’s skin.  Aramis continues to offer one of the broadest
lines of prestige men’s products.

 

Prescriptives - We developed and introduced
Prescriptives in 1979.  Prescriptives is
positioned as a color authority with an advanced collection of highly
individualized products primarily addressing the makeup and skin care needs of
contemporary women with active lifestyles. 
The products are characterized by simple concepts, minimalist design and
an innovative image and, through a system of color application and extensive
range of makeup shades, accommodate a diverse group of consumers.

 

Origins - Origins was introduced in 1990.  It is positioned as a plant-based line of skin
care, makeup and aromatherapy products that combine time-tested botanical
ingredients with modern science to promote total well-being.  Origins sells its products at our
freestanding Origins stores and through stores-within-stores (which are
designed to replicate the Origins store environment within a department store),
at traditional retail counters, in perfumeries and directly to consumers over
the Internet.

 

Tommy Hilfiger - We have an exclusive global
license arrangement to develop and market a line of men’s and women’s
fragrances and cosmetics under the Tommy Hilfiger brand.  We launched the line in 1995 with a men’s
fragrance, tommy. 
Today, we manufacture and sell a variety of fragrances and ancillary products
for men and women.

 

MžAžC - MžAžC
products comprise a broad line of color-oriented, professional cosmetics and
professional makeup tools targeting makeup artists and fashion-conscious
consumers.  The products are sold through
a limited number of department and specialty stores, at freestanding MžAžC
stores and directly to consumers over the Internet.  We acquired the companies behind MžAžC
in three stages: in December 1994, March 1997 and February 1998.

 

Bobbi Brown - In October 1995, we acquired the
Bobbi Brown line of color cosmetics, professional makeup brushes and skin care
products.  Bobbi Brown products are
manufactured to our specifications, primarily by third parties, and sold
through a limited number of department and specialty stores and directly to
consumers over the Internet.

 

La Mer - La Mer products primarily consist of
moisturizing creams, lotions, cleansers, toners and other skin care
products.  The line, which is available
in very limited distribution in the United States and certain other countries,
is an extension of the initial Crème de la Mer product that we acquired in
1995.

 

Donna Karan Cosmetics - In
November 1997, we obtained the exclusive global license to develop, market and
distribute a line of fragrances and other cosmetics under the Donna Karan New
York and DKNY trademarks, including certain products that were originally sold
by The Donna Karan Company.  We launched
the first DKNY women’s fragrance in fiscal 2000 and the first DKNY men’s
fragrance in fiscal 2001.  Under this
license, fragrances have been expanded to include extensive lines of companion
bath and body products.

 

3
















 

Aveda - We acquired the Aveda business in
December 1997 and have since acquired selected Aveda distributors and retail
stores.  Aveda, a prestige hair care
leader, is a manufacturer and marketer of plant-based hair care, skin care,
makeup and fragrance products.  We sell
Aveda products to third-party distributors and prestige salons and spas,
cosmetology schools, certain non-U.S. department stores and specialty retailers
and directly to consumers at our own freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and
certain Aveda Institutes.

 

Stila - In August 1999, we acquired the
business of Los Angeles-based Stila Cosmetics, Inc.  Stila is known for its stylish, wearable
makeup products and eco-friendly packaging and has developed a following among
young, fashion-forward consumers.  Stila
products are currently available at the brand’s flagship store in Los Angeles,
California, and also in limited distribution in the United States and certain
other countries.

 

Jo Malone - We acquired London-based Jo Malone
Limited in October 1999.  Jo Malone is
known for its prestige skin care, fragrance and hair care products showcased at
its flagship store in London.  Products
are also available through a company catalogue, at freestanding stores and at a
very limited group of specialty stores in the United States, Canada and the
United Kingdom.

 

Bumble and bumble - In June 2000, we acquired
a controlling majority equity interest in Bumble and Bumble Products, LLC, a
marketer and distributor of quality hair care products, and Bumble and Bumble,
LLC, the operator of a premier hair salon in New York City.  Bumble and bumble styling and other hair care
products are distributed to top-tier salons and select specialty stores.  In fiscal 2004, we opened a second
wholly-owned salon and a training and education center.  The founder and two of his partners own the
remaining equity interests and have continued to manage the domestic
operations.

 

Darphin - In April 2003, we acquired
Laboratoires Darphin, the Paris-based company dedicated to the development,
manufacture and marketing of prestige skin care and makeup products which are
distributed through high-end independent pharmacies and specialty stores.

 

Michael Kors - In May 2003, we entered into a
license agreement for fragrances and beauty products under the “Michael Kors”
trademarks and purchased certain related rights and inventory from another
party.  All fragrances including MICHAEL
and MICHAEL for Men, as well as ancillary bath and body products, are sold in
department stores, specialty stores, at freestanding Michael Kors boutiques and
over the Internet.

 

Rodan + Fields - In July 2003, we acquired the
Rodan + Fields skin care line launched in 2002 by Stanford University-trained
dermatologists Katie Rodan, M.D. and Kathy Fields, M.D.  The line offers solutions for specific skin
problems, targeting them with individually packaged and dedicated regimens.  The line is currently sold in U.S. specialty
stores and over the Internet at www.rodanandfields.com.

 

American Beauty - Launched in 2004, the
luxurious makeup and advanced skin care line celebrates the beauty of American
style.  These products, which are sold in
the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and Kohls.com, have been
developed to meet the needs of the modern American woman, with a
straightforward makeup and skin care appeal. 
We offer over 35 products and more than 150 shades.

 

Flirt! - Launched in 2004 and sold in the
United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and Kohls.com, this makeup line is
all about experimenting with color, pop culture and trends.  With over 250 shades of lips, eyes, cheeks
and more “you can Flirt! with the possibilities.”

 

Good Skin™ - Launched in 2004 and sold in the
United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and Kohls.com, this line of skin care
products was created with the expertise of a dermatologist.  This line is color-coded for ease of use.  good skin, easy to choose,
easy to use, doctor formulated for you. ™  We currently offer 73 products under the Good
Skin™ brand.

 

Donald Trump The Fragrance - In September
2004, the Company announced that it joined forces with Donald Trump in a
multi-year deal.  The agreement
established Mr. Trump as the spokesperson for a new men’s fragrance called
Donald Trump The Fragrance.

 

Grassroots - Introduced in 2005 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and
Kohls.com, Grassroots offers a range of wholesome,
naturally-sourced products that deliver extraordinary results to help care for
you and your family.  This line’s seven
product categories include face, body, hair, post-pregnancy, babies, kids and
pets.

 

4
















 

In addition to the foregoing
brands, we manufacture and sell Kiton and Toni Gard products as a
licensee.  We also have licenses from,
and are developing products for, Sean John (announced in May 2004), Tom Ford
(announced in April 2005) and Missoni (announced in May 2005) and an Origins
license agreement to develop and sell products using the name of Dr. Andrew
Weil (announced in October 2004).

 

Distribution

 

We sell our products
principally through limited distribution channels to complement the images associated
with our brands.  These channels include
more than 20,000 points of sale in over 130 countries and territories and
consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty retailers, upscale
perfumeries and pharmacies, prestige salons and spas and, to a lesser extent,
freestanding company-owned stores and spas, our own and authorized retailer
websites, stores on cruise ships, television direct marketing, in-flight and
duty-free shops.

 

We maintain a dedicated sales
force which sells to our retail accounts in North America and in the major
overseas markets, such as Western Europe and Japan.  We have wholly-owned operations in over 30
countries, and controlling interests in joint ventures that operate in four other
countries, through which we market, sell and distribute our products.  In certain countries, we sell our products
through selected local distributors under contractual arrangements designed to
protect the image and position of the brands. 
In addition, we sell certain products in select domestic and
international military locations and over the Internet.  For
information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region,
see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is
incorporated herein by reference.  Our
net sales in the United States in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $3,123.7
million, $2,928.7 million and $2,752.8 million, respectively.  Our long-lived assets in the United States at
June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $425.5 million, $416.0 million and $420.1
million, respectively.

 

There are risks inherent in
foreign operations, including changes in social, political and economic
conditions.  We are also exposed to risks
associated with changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment
in countries where we have operations as well as, to a lesser extent, changes
in United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and
investment.  In addition, our results of
operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates.  Changes
in such rates also may affect the relative prices at which we and foreign
competitors sell products in the same markets. 
Similarly, the cost of certain items required in our operations may be
affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies.

 

We principally sell Aveda
products to third-party distributors and prestige salons and spas, cosmetology
schools and specialty retailers and directly to consumers at our own
freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and certain Aveda Institutes.  There are currently about 7,000 points of
sale, primarily in the United States, that sell Aveda products.  Bumble and bumble products are principally
sold to more than 1,900 independent salons, primarily in the United States.  Darphin products are principally sold through
high-end independent pharmacies, principally in Europe, representing
approximately 3,500 points of sale.

 

As part of our strategy to
diversify our distribution, we have been selectively expanding the number of
single-brand, freestanding stores that we own and operate.  The Origins, Aveda and MžAžC
brands are the primary focus for this method of distribution.  At this time, we operate 445 single-brand,
freestanding stores worldwide, the majority of which are in the United States,
and expect that number to increase moderately over the next several years.

 

In fiscal 2005, we began to
sell our newly developed brands, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™ and
Grassroots.  The new products are
available at about 600 Kohl’s Department Stores in the United States.

 

We sell some of our products
directly to consumers over the Internet through our own websites (Estée Lauder,
Clinique, Lab Series for Men, Prescriptives, Origins, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Stila, Jo Malone and Rodan + Fields), and through
Gloss.com (Estée Lauder, Clinique, Lab Series for Men, Prescriptives, Origins,
MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Stila, Jo Malone and Rodan + Fields).  Gloss.com is a joint venture in which we own
a controlling majority interest.  Chanel,
Inc. and Clarins (U.S.A.) Inc. became partners in the venture in August 2000
and Chanel and Clarins products are also available on the website.

 

As is customary in the cosmetics
industry, our practice is to accept returns of our products from retailers if
properly requested, authorized and approved. 
In accepting returns, we typically provide a credit to the retailer
against sales and accounts receivable from that retailer on a dollar-for-dollar
basis.  In recognition of this practice,
and in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we report
sales levels on a net basis, which is computed by deducting the amount of actual
returns received and an amount established for anticipated returns from gross
sales.  As a percentage of gross sales,
returns were 4.7%, 4.6% and 5.1% in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

 

5
















 

Customers

 

Our strategy has been to build
strong strategic relationships with selected retailers globally.  Senior management works with executives of
our major retail accounts on a regular basis and we believe we are viewed as an
important supplier to these customers.

For the fiscal years ended June
30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our three largest customers accounted for 22%, 22% and
24%, respectively, of our net sales. 
Individually no customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales
during fiscal 2005, 2004 or 2003.  Our
two largest customers, Federated Department Stores, Inc. and The May Department
Stores Company, merged on August 30, 2005.

 

Marketing

 

Our marketing strategy is built
around our vision statement: “Bringing the Best to Everyone We Touch.”  Mrs. Estée Lauder formulated this marketing philosophy
to provide high-quality service and products as the foundation for a solid and
loyal consumer base.

 

Our marketing efforts focus
principally on promoting the quality and benefits of our products.  Each of our brands is distinctively
positioned, has a single global image, and is promoted with consistent logos,
packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it
from other brands.  We regularly
advertise our products on television and radio, in upscale magazines and
newspapers and through direct mail and photo displays at international
airports.  In addition, our products
receive extensive editorial coverage in prestige publications and other media
worldwide.  Promotional activities and
in-store displays are designed to introduce existing consumers to different
products in the line and to attract new consumers.  Our marketing efforts also benefit from
cooperative advertising programs with retailers, some of which are supported by
coordinated promotions, such as purchase with purchase and gift with
purchase.  At in-store counters, sales
representatives offer personal demonstrations to market individual products as
well as to provide education on basic skin care and makeup application.  We conduct extensive sampling programs and we
pioneered gift with purchase as a sampling program.  We believe that the quality and perceived
benefits of sample products have been effective inducements to purchases by new
and existing consumers.

 

Starting with the launch of the
Clinique website in 1996, we have used the Internet to educate and inform
consumers about certain of our brands. 
Currently, we have eighteen single-brand marketing sites, twelve of
which have e-commerce capabilities, and Gloss.com, our majority-owned,
multi-brand marketing and e-commerce site.

 

Most of our creative marketing
work is done by in-house creative teams. 
The creative staff designs and produces the sales materials,
advertisements and packaging for all products in each brand.  Total advertising and promotional expenditures
were $1,812.5 million, $1,612.0 million and $1,416.1 million for fiscal 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.  These
amounts include expenses relating to purchase with purchase and gift with
purchase promotions that are reflected in net sales and cost of sales.

 

Our marketing and sales
executives spend considerable time in the field meeting with consumers and key
retailers and consulting with sales representatives at the points of sale.  These include Estée Lauder Beauty Advisors,
Clinique Consultants, Aramis Selling Specialists, Prescriptives Analysts,
Origins Guides and MžAžC
Makeup Artists.

 

Information
Systems

 

Information systems support
business processes including product development, marketing, sales, order
processing, production, distribution and finance.  Of the many systems currently being utilized,
the most significant to our business needs are: (i) a centralized data
repository of essential attributes for each of the products we offer, or plan
to offer, which enables us to globally manufacture and market products of
consistent quality; (ii) a sales analysis system to track weekly sales at the
stock keeping unit (SKU) level at most significant retail sales locations
(i.e., sell-through data), increasing our understanding of consumer preferences
and enabling us to coordinate more effectively our product development,
manufacturing and marketing strategies; (iii) an automated replenishment system
with many of our key domestic customers, allowing us to replenish inventories
for individual points of sale automatically, with minimal paperwork; and (iv)
an inventory management system to provide us with a global view of finished
goods availability relative to actual requirements, facilitating inventory
control and distribution for both existing product lines and new product
launches.

 

The efficiencies provided by
these systems have resulted in increased sales, fewer out-of-stocks and reduced
retail inventories.  We expect that these
systems will continue to provide inventory and sales efficiencies in the short
and medium terms.  As part of our long-term
effort to enhance these efficiencies, we are implementing enterprise-wide
global programs that we expect will deliver a single set of integrated data,
processes and technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize
business processes across brands, operating units and sales affiliates.

 

6
















 

Research
and Development

 

We believe that we are an
industry leader in the development of new products.  Marketing, product development and packaging
groups work with our research and development group to identify shifts in
consumer preferences, develop new products and redesign or reformulate existing
products.  In addition, research and
development personnel work closely with quality assurance and manufacturing
personnel on a worldwide basis to ensure consistent global standards for our
products and to deliver products with attributes that fulfill consumer
expectations.

 

We maintain ongoing research
and development programs at our facilities in Melville, New York; Oevel,
Belgium; Petersfield, U.K.; Tokyo, Japan; Markham, Ontario; Blaine, Minnesota;
and Colombes, France.  We are also in the
process of opening a research center in Shanghai, China.  Construction of the Shanghai research and
development center started in June 2005 and we expect to have operations
running by the latter part of 2005.  As
of June 30, 2005, we had approximately 430 employees
engaged in research and development. 
Research and development expenditures totaled $72.3 million, $67.2
million and $60.8 million in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  Our research and development group makes
significant contributions toward improving existing products and developing new
products and provides ongoing technical assistance and know-how to our
manufacturing activities.  The research
and development group has had long-standing working relationships with several
U.S. and international medical and educational facilities, which supplement
internal capabilities.  We do not conduct
animal testing of our products.

 

Manufacturing,
Warehousing and Raw Materials

 

We manufacture skin care,
makeup, fragrance and hair care products in the United States, Belgium,
Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Canada and France.  We continue to streamline our manufacturing
processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve innovation, increase
efficiencies and reduce costs.  Our major
manufacturing facilities operate as “focus” plants that primarily manufacture
one type of product (e.g., lipsticks) for all of the principal brands.  Our plants are modern and our manufacturing
processes are substantially automated. 
While we believe that our manufacturing facilities are sufficient to
meet current and reasonably anticipated manufacturing requirements, we continue
to identify opportunities to make significant improvements in capacity and
productivity.  To capitalize on
innovation and other supply benefits, we continue to utilize third parties on a
global basis for finished goods production.

 

We have established a global
distribution network designed to meet the changing demands of our customers
while maintaining service levels.  We are
continuously evaluating and restructuring this physical distribution
network.  We intend to establish regional
inventory centers strategically positioned throughout the world in order to facilitate
timely delivery of our products to our customers.

 

The principal raw materials
used in the manufacture of our products are essential oils, alcohol and specialty
chemicals.  We also purchase packaging
components that are manufactured to our design specifications.  Procurement of materials for all
manufacturing facilities is generally made on a global basis through our
centralized supplier relations department. 
A concentrated effort in supplier rationalization has been made with the
specific objective of reducing costs, increasing innovation and improving
quality.  As a result of sourcing
initiatives, there is increased dependency on certain suppliers, but we believe
that these suppliers have adequate resources and facilities to overcome any
unforeseen interruption of supply.  We
are continually benchmarking the performance of the supply chain and will add
or delete suppliers based upon the changing needs of the business.  We have, in the past, been able to obtain an
adequate supply of essential raw materials and currently believe we have
adequate sources of supply for virtually all components of our products.  As we integrate acquired brands, we
continually seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities
to improve manufacturing performance.

 

7
















 

Competition

 

The skin care, makeup,
fragrance and hair care businesses are characterized by vigorous competition
throughout the world.  Brand recognition,
quality, performance and price have a significant influence on consumers’
choices among competing products and brands. 
Advertising, promotion, merchandising, the pace and timing of new
product introductions, line extensions and the quality of in-store sales staff
also have a significant impact on consumers’ buying decisions.  We compete against a number of manufacturers
and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products, some of
which have substantially greater resources than we do.

 

Our principal competitors among
manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care
products include:

•                  L’Oreal S.A., which markets Lancôme, Ralph Lauren, Giorgio
Armani, Garnier, L’Oreal, Maybelline, Biotherm, Helena Rubinstein, Redken,
Matrix, Kiehl’s Since 1851, Shu Uemura, SkinCeuticals and other brands;

•                  Unilever N.V., which markets Dove, Pond’s, Thermasilk,
Vaseline Intensive Care and other brands;

•                  The Procter & Gamble Company, which markets Cover Girl,
Olay, Giorgio Beverly Hills, Hugo Boss, Rochas, Escada, Lacoste, Max Factor,
Vidal Sassoon, Pantene, Clairol, Wella, Valentino, Gucci, Sebastian, Aussie and
other brands;

•                  Beiersdorf AG, which markets Nivea, Eucerin, La Prairie,
Juvena and other brands;

•                  Avon Products Inc., a direct marketer of Avon Color, Anew,
Skin-so-soft, mark, Avon Wellness, and beComing, and other products;

•                  Shiseido Company, Ltd., which markets Shiseido, Clé de Peau
Beauté, Zirh, Nars, Decléor, Issey Miyake, Jean Paul Gaultier, Helene Curtis,
Za and other brands;

•                  LVMH Moët Hennessey Louis Vuitton (“LVMH”), which markets
Christian Dior, Kenzo, Givenchy, Guerlain, Benefit, Make Up For Ever, Fresh,
Aqua di Parma and other brands;

•                  Coty, Inc., which markets Lancaster, Davidoff, Isabella
Rossellini, Rimmel, Astor, Adidas, The Healing Garden, Chopard, Jennifer Lopez,
Kenneth Cole, Marc Jacobs, Sarah Jessica Parker, David and Victoria Beckham,
Stetson, Calvin Klein, Cerruti, Vera Wang and other brands;

•                  Revlon, Inc., which markets Revlon, Almay, Ultima II and
other brands;

•                  Chanel, Inc.;

•                  Clarins S.A., which markets Clarins, Azzaro, Lacoste,
Thierry Mugler and other brands; and

•                  Elizabeth Arden, Inc., which markets Elizabeth Arden,
Elizabeth Taylor fragrances, Geoffrey Beene, 
Halston, Britney Spears and other brands.

 

We also face competition from
retailers that have developed their own brands, such as:

•                  Gap Inc., which markets The Gap and Banana Republic
products;

•                  Limited Brands Inc., which markets Victoria’s Secret Beauty
and Bath and Body Works; and

•                  Sephora.

 

Some retailers have acquired
brands, such as Neiman Marcus Group, which acquired Laura Mercier.

 

Some of our competitors also
have ownership interests in retailers that are customers of ours.  For example, LVMH has interests in DFS Group
LTD, Miami Cruiseline Services, Le Bon Marché, la Samaritaine, eLuxury and
Sephora.

 

Trademarks,
Patents and Copyrights

 

The trademarks used in our
business include the brand names Estée Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives,
Origins, Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New York, DKNY, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Stila, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin,
Michael Kors and Rodan + Fields and the names of many of the products sold
under these brands.  We own the material
trademark rights used in connection with the manufacturing, marketing and
distribution of most of our major products both in the United States and in the
other principal countries where such products are sold.  We are the exclusive worldwide licensee for
fragrances, cosmetics and related products for Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New
York, DKNY, Michael Kors and Donald Trump The Fragrance, and we are in the
process of developing products under licenses from Sean John, Tom Ford and
Missoni and an Origins license agreement to develop and sell products using the
name of Dr. Andrew Weil.  Trademarks for
our principal products are registered in the United States and in most of the
countries in which such products are sold. 
We consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our
business.

 

A number of our products
incorporate patented or patent-pending formulations or packaging.  In addition, several products are covered by
design patents, patent applications or copyrights.  While we consider these patents and
copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be important, no single patent or
copyright is considered material to the conduct of our business.

 

8
















 

Employees

 

At June 30, 2005, we had
approximately 23,700 full-time employees worldwide (including sales
representatives at points of sale who are employed by us), of whom
approximately 11,300 are employed in the United States and Canada.  None of our employees in the United States is
covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 
In certain other countries a limited number of employees are covered by
a works council agreement or other syndicate arrangements.  We believe that relations with our employees
are good.  We have never encountered a
material strike or work stoppage in the United States or in any other country
where we have a significant number of employees.

 

Government
Regulation

 

We and our products are subject
to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade
Commission in the United States, as well as by various other Federal, state,
local and international regulatory authorities and the regulatory authorities
in the countries in which our products are produced or sold.  Such regulations principally relate to the
ingredients, labeling, packaging and marketing of our products.  We believe that we are in substantial
compliance with such regulations, as well as with applicable Federal, state,
local and international and other countries’ rules and regulations governing
the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment.  There are no significant capital expenditures
for environmental control matters either planned in the current year or
expected in the near future.  Along with
other unrelated parties, we have been named as a potentially responsible party
by the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York with regard to a
landfill in Long Island, New York.  See “Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.”

 

Seasonality

 

Our results of operations in
total, by region and by product category, are subject to seasonal fluctuations,
with net sales in the first half of the fiscal year typically being slightly
higher than in the second half of the fiscal year.  The higher net sales in the first two fiscal
quarters are attributable to the increased levels of purchasing by retailers
for the holiday selling season and for fall fashion makeup introductions.  Fluctuations in net sales, operating income
and product category results in any fiscal quarter may be attributable to the
level and scope of new product introductions. 
Additionally, gross margins and operating expenses are impacted on a
quarter-by-quarter basis by variations in our launch calendar and the timing of
promotions, including purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.

 

Availability
of Reports

 

We make available financial
information, news releases and other information on our website at
www.elcompanies.com.  There is a direct
link from the website to our Securities and Exchange Commission filings via the
EDGAR database, where our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we
file such reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Stockholders may
also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153
or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.

 

Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct

 

The Board of Directors has
developed corporate governance practices to help it fulfill its
responsibilities to stockholders in providing general direction and oversight
of management.  These practices are set forth in our Corporate Governance
Guidelines.  We also have a Code of Conduct (“Code”) applicable to all
employees, officers and directors of the Company, including, without limitation,
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other senior
financial officers.  These documents, as well as any waiver of a provision
of the Code granted to any senior officer or director or material amendment to
the Code, if any, may be found in the “Investors” section of our website: www.elcompanies.com
under the heading “Corporate Governance.” 
Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these
documents without charge.

 

9
















 

Executive
Officers

 

The following table sets forth
certain information with respect to our executive officers:

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Position(s) Held
  
 
 
  
  Malcolm Bond
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Global Operations
  
 
 
  
  Patrick
  Bousquet-Chavanne
  
  
   
  
  
  47
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  President
  
 
 
  
  Daniel J.
  Brestle
  
  
   
  
  
  60
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  President and Chief Operating Officer
  
 
 
  
  Amy DiGeso
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President – Global Human Resources
  
 
 
  
  Harvey
  Gedeon
  
  
   
  
  
  62
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Research and Development
  
 
 
  
  Richard W.
  Kunes
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
  
 
 
  
  Evelyn H.
  Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  69
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior
  Corporate Vice President
  
 
 
  
  Leonard A.
  Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  72
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman of
  the Board of Directors
  
 
 
  
  Ronald S.
  Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  61
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman of
  Clinique Laboratories, Inc. and a Director
  
 
 
  
  William P.
  Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  President
  and Chief Executive Officer and a Director
  
 
 
  
  Sara E. Moss
  
  
   
  
  
  58
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – General Counsel and Secretary
  
 
 
  
  Cedric
  Prouvé
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  President, International
  
 
 
  
  Philip
  Shearer
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  President
  
 
 
  
  Sally Susman
  
  
   
  
  
  43
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President, Global Communications
  
 


 

Malcolm Bond became Executive Vice President –
Global Operations in July 2004.  In this
role, he directs Global Procurement, Manufacturing and Logistics, as well as
Information Systems, Packaging, Quality Assurance, Merchandising Design and
Development, Corporate Store Design Operations, Employee Health and Safety and
Retail Store Operations for all of our brands. 
From January 2001 through June 2004, Mr. Bond was Senior Vice President –
Global Manufacturing and Distribution. 
From January 1999 to January 2001, he was Senior Vice President,
Manufacturing, during which time his responsibilities also included corporate
engineering and supply chain.  From
September 1997 to January 1999, he was Vice President, Focus Factories,
responsible for all of our factory operations. 
Mr. Bond joined us in September 1995 as General Manager of our U.K.
manufacturing operations, with responsibility for South African and Australian
operations as well.  Prior to joining us,
Mr. Bond was responsible for European Operations at the Alberto-Culver Company
and, prior to that, was Vice President, Operations for Europe, Middle East and
Africa for Revlon, Inc. from April 1979 until October 1992.

 

Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne became Group
President, The Estée Lauder Companies Inc., in July 2001.  Since January 2005, he has been directing the
Aramis and Designer Fragrances division – including Aramis, Tommy Hilfiger,
Donna Karan, Michael Kors and Donald Trump The Fragrance, as well as Bobbi
Brown, Stila, Darphin, Rodan + Fields and the Fashion Group.  From 2001 to 2004, he directed Estée Lauder,
M·A·C and the Aramis and Designer Fragrances Division.  From 1998 to 2001, he was the President of
Estee Lauder International, Inc. (“ELII”). 
From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Bousquet-Chavanne was Senior Vice President –
General Manager/Travel Retailing of ELII. 
From 1989 to 1992, he was Vice President and General Manager of Aramis
International, a division of ELII.  From
1996 to 1998, he was Executive Vice President/General Manager International
Operations of Parfums Christian Dior S.A., based in Paris.  Mr. Bousquet-Chavanne is a director of
Brown-Forman Corporation.

 

Daniel J. Brestle was appointed Chief
Operating Officer, The Estée Lauder Companies Inc., in January 2005.  In this role, he is responsible for our Global
Operations and Research and Development worldwide, and oversees the Estée
Lauder, Jo Malone, La Mer, M·A·C and Prescriptives brands, and our BeautyBank division.  Since July 2001, Mr. Brestle had been Group
President, The Estée Lauder Companies Inc., with global responsibility for our
specialty brands, including Aveda, Bobbi Brown, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Jo Malone,
La Mer, Prescriptives, Rodan + Fields and Stila.  He also oversaw the launch of BeautyBank and
its first four brands, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™ and Grassroots,
which are sold exclusively by Kohl’s in the United States.  From July 1998 through June 2001, he was
President of Estée Lauder (USA & Canada). 
Prior to July 1998, he was President of Clinique Laboratories, Inc. and
had been the senior officer of that division since 1992.  From 1988 through 1992, he was President of
Prescriptives U.S.A.  Mr. Brestle joined
us in 1978.  He is a director of
Abercrombie & Fitch Co.

 

Amy DiGeso became Senior Vice President,
Global Human Resources in May 2005.  She was Senior Partner – Global Human
Resource in charge of the Human Resources Department at PriceWaterhouseCoopers
LLP from May 2001 through June 2003.  From April 1999 through April 2001,
Ms. DiGeso was President of the Popular Club Plan, a direct sales subsidiary of
Federated Department Stores, and from May 1992 through December 1998, she
served in various executive capacities at Mary Kay, Inc., including Chief
Executive Officer from November 1996 through December 1998.  Since June
2003, Ms. DiGeso is engaged in various philanthropic activities.

 

10
















 

Harvey Gedeon became Executive Vice President, Research and Development in July
2004.  From January 2000 to July 2004, he
was Senior Vice President – Research and Development.  Prior to joining us in January 2000, Mr.
Gedeon was Executive Vice President and General Manager, Research and
Development and Quality Assurance for Revlon, Inc. from 1997 through 1999.

 

Richard W. Kunes became Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2004.  Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer since October 2000. 
He joined us in 1986 and served in various finance-related positions
until November 1993, when he was named Vice President – Operations Finance
Worldwide.  From January 1998 through
September 2000, Mr. Kunes was Vice President – Financial Administration and
Corporate Controller.  Prior to joining us,
he held finance and controller positions at the Colgate-Palmolive Company.  Mr. Kunes is on the Board of Directors of
Make-a-Wish Foundation of Suffolk County, NY, Inc.

 

Evelyn H. Lauder has been Senior Corporate
Vice President since 1989, and previously served as Vice President and in other
executive capacities since first joining us in 1959 as Education Director.  She is a member of the Board of Overseers,
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, a member of the Boards of Trustees of
Central Park Conservancy, Inc. and The Trinity School in New York City (Trustee
Emirata), a member of the Board of Directors of New Yorkers for Parks, an
Honorary Board Member of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories and the Founder and
Chairman of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation.

 

Leonard A. Lauder has been Chairman of the
Board of Directors since 1995.  He served
as our Chief Executive Officer from 1982 through 1999 and President from 1972
until 1995.  Mr. Lauder formally joined us
in 1958 after serving as an officer in the United States Navy.  Since joining, he has held various positions,
including executive officer positions other than those described above.  He is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of
the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee of the University of
Pennsylvania and a Trustee of The Aspen Institute.  He also served as a member of the White House
Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.

 

Ronald S. Lauder has served as Chairman of
Clinique Laboratories, Inc. since returning from government service in
1987.  He was Chairman of Estee Lauder
International, Inc. from 1987 through 2002. 
Mr. Lauder joined us in 1964 and has held various positions, including
those described above, since then.  From
1983 to 1986, Mr. Lauder was Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for European
and NATO Affairs.  From 1986 to 1987, he
served as U.S. Ambassador to Austria.  He
is non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Central European Media
Enterprises Ltd.  He is also Chairman of
the Board of Trustees of the Museum of Modern Art.

 

William P. Lauder became President and Chief
Executive Officer in July 2004.  From
January 2003 through June 2004, he served as Chief Operating Officer.  From July 2001 until December 2002 he served
as Group President responsible for the worldwide business of Clinique and Origins
and our retail store and On-line operations. 
From 1998 to 2001, he was President of Clinique Laboratories, Inc.  Prior to 1998, he was President of Origins
Natural Resources Inc. and had been the senior officer of that division since
its inception in 1990.  Prior thereto, he
served in various positions since joining us in 1986.  He is a member of the Board of Trustees of
The University of Pennsylvania and The Trinity School in New York City and the
Boards of Directors of The Fresh Air Fund, the 92nd Street Y,
Survivors of the SHOAH Visual History Foundation and the Partnership for New
York City.  Mr. Lauder is a director of
True Temper Sports, Inc.

 

Sara E. Moss became Executive Vice President
in November 2004.  She joined us as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary in September 2003.  She was
Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes Inc. from 1996 to
February 2003, and Senior Litigation Partner for Howard, Smith & Levin (now
part of Covington & Burling) in New York from 1984 to 1996.  Prior to 1984, Ms. Moss served as an
Assistant United States Attorney in the Criminal Division in the Southern
District of New York, was an associate at the law firm of Davis, Polk &
Wardwell and was Law Clerk to the Honorable Constance Baker Motley, a U.S.
District Judge in the Southern District of New York.

 

Cedric Prouvé became Group President,
International, effective January 2003. 
He is responsible for sales and profits in all markets outside of North
America and for all of the activities of our sales affiliates and distributor
relationships worldwide.  He also
oversees our travel retail business. 
From August 2000 through 2002 he was the General Manager of our Japanese
sales affiliate.  From January 1997 to
August 2000, he was Vice President, General Manager, Travel Retail.  He started with us in 1994 as General
Manager, Travel Retailing – Asia Pacific Region and was given the added
responsibility of General Manager of our Singapore affiliate in 1995.  Prior to joining us he spent time with L’Oreal
serving in sales and management positions of increasing responsibility in the
Americas and Asia/Pacific.

 

Philip Shearer became Group President
responsible for Clinique, Origins and our On-line operations in January
2003.  In 2005, he added responsibility
for Aveda and Bumble and bumble.  He
joined us as Group President, International in September 2001.  Prior thereto, from 1998 to 2001, he was
President of the Luxury Products Division of L’Oreal U.S.A., which included
Lancôme, Helena Rubinstein, Ralph Lauren fragrances, Giorgio Armani and Kiehl’s
Since 1851.  He served in various
positions at L’Oreal from 1987, including management positions in the United
Kingdom and in Japan.

 

11
















 

Sally Susman became Executive Vice President
in December 2004.  Prior thereto, she was
Senior Vice President – Global Communications since September 2000 and remains responsible
for all media relations, internal communications and consumer relations for the
Company and its brands.  Prior to joining
us, Ms. Susman held several high-level communications and government relations
positions at American Express Company from 1990 to 1993 and 1995 to 2000.  From 1993
to 1995, she was the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the
U.S. Department of Commerce.  Ms.
Susman is a Commissioner on the New York City Commission on Women’s Issues and
is a member of the Boards of Directors of Parsons School of Design and The
National Partnership for Women and Families and is a Trustee of Connecticut
College.  Ms. Susman is a trustee of
Equity Office Properties Trust.

 

Each executive officer serves
for a one-year term ending at the next annual meeting of the Board of
Directors, subject to his or her applicable employment agreement and his or her
earlier death, resignation or removal.

 

Item 1A. 
Risk Factors.

 

There are risks associated with
an investment in our securities, including:

 

The beauty business is highly
competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results will
suffer.

 

We face vigorous competition
from companies throughout the world, including multinational consumer product
companies.  Some of these competitors
have greater resources than we do. 
Competition in the beauty business is based on pricing of products,
innovation, perceived value, service to the consumer, promotional activities,
advertising, special events, new product introductions, electronic commerce
initiatives and other activities.  It is difficult
for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors’ actions in these
areas.  Also, the trend toward
consolidation in the retail trade, particularly in developed markets such as
the United States and Western Europe, has resulted in us becoming increasingly
dependent on key retailers, including large-format retailers, who have
increased their bargaining strength.  Our
ability to compete also depends on the continued strength of our brands, our
ability to attract and retain key talent, the efficiency of our manufacturing
facilities and distribution network, and our ability to protect our
intellectual property.  Our failure to
continue to compete effectively in countries around the world could have an
adverse impact on our business.

 

Our inability to
anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences
could adversely affect our financial results.

 

Our continued success depends
on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and cost-effective
manner to changes in consumer tastes for skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair
care products as well as to where and how consumers shop for those
products.  We must continually work to
develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition
of our brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as
to how and where we market and sell our products.  While we devote considerable effort and
resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, we recognize
that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly.  If we are unable to anticipate and respond to
trends in the market for cosmetics products and changing consumer demands, our
financial results will suffer.

 

A general economic downturn or
sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer purchases of
discretionary items, which could adversely affect our financial results.

 

The general level of consumer
spending is affected by a number of factors, including general economic
conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, and consumer confidence
generally, all of which are beyond our control. 
Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during
recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of
our products.  In addition, sudden
disruptions in business conditions, for example, as a consequence of events
such as the outbreak of SARs in 2003 or those that are currently taking place
in the Middle East, or as a result of a terrorist attack similar to the events
of September 11, 2001 in the United States or the July 2005 events in the
United Kingdom, including further attacks, retaliation and the threat of
further attacks or retaliation can have a short and, sometimes, long-term
impact on consumer spending.  Events that
impact consumers’ willingness to travel may impact our travel retail business,
which is a significant contributor to our overall results.  A downturn in the economies in which we sell
our products or a sudden disruption of business conditions in those economies
could adversely affect our sales.

 

Changes in laws, regulations
and polices that affect our business could adversely affect our financial
results.

 

Our business is subject to
numerous laws, regulations and policies. 
Changes in the laws, regulations and policies that affect, or will
affect, our business, including changes in accounting standards, tax laws and
regulations, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense
of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result
could adversely affect our financial results.

 

12
















 

We are subject to risks related to our
international operations.

 

We operate on a global basis, with
approximately 51% of our fiscal 2005 net sales generated outside the United States.  We maintain offices in over 30 countries and
have key operational facilities located outside the United States that
manufacture goods for sale throughout the world.  Foreign operations are subject
to many risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to:

 

•                  fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, which can affect our results of operations;
the value of our foreign assets; the relative prices at which we and foreign
competitors sell products in the same markets; and the cost of certain items
required in our operations;

 

•                  changes in
foreign laws, regulations and policies, including restrictions on trade, import
and export license requirements, and tariffs and taxes, as well as changes in
United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment;
and

 

•                  geopolitical
conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other military action.

 

These risks could have a
material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

A disruption in operations
could adversely affect our business and financial results.

 

As a company engaged in
manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks
inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental
events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in logistics or
information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product
quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as
well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no
control.  If such an event were to occur,
it could have an adverse affect on our business and financial results.

 

Item 1B