Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

 

PART I

 

Item 1.  Business.

 

The
Estée Lauder Companies Inc., founded in 1946 by Estée and Joseph Lauder, is one
of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care,
makeup, fragrance and hair care products. 
Our products are sold in over 140 countries and territories under a number
of well-known brand names including: Estée Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Origins, MžAžC, Bobbi Brown,
La Mer and Aveda.  We are also the global
licensee for fragrances and/or cosmetics sold under brand names such as Tommy
Hilfiger, Donna Karan, Michael Kors, and Sean John.  Each brand is distinctly positioned within
the market for cosmetics and other beauty products.

 

We
are a pioneer in the cosmetics industry and believe we are a leader in the
industry due to the global recognition of our brand names, our leadership in
product innovation, our strong market position in key geographic markets and
the consistently high quality of our products. 
We sell our prestige products principally through limited distribution
channels to complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels, encompassing over 30,000
points of sale, consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty
retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and spas.  In addition, our products are sold in freestanding
company-owned stores and spas, our own and authorized retailer websites, stores
on cruise ships, direct response television (“DRTV”), in-flight and duty-free
shops and certain fragrances are sold in self-select outlets.  We believe that our strategy of pursuing
limited distribution strengthens our relationships with retailers, enables our
brands to be among the best selling product lines at the stores and heightens
the aspirational quality of our brands.

 

For
a discussion of recent developments, see “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
— Results of Operations — Overview.”

 

We
have been controlled by the Lauder family since the founding of our
company.  Members of the Lauder family,
some of whom are directors, executive officers and/or employees, beneficially
own, directly or indirectly, as of August 14, 2009, shares of Class A
Common Stock and Class B Common Stock having approximately 87.6% of the
outstanding voting power of the Common Stock.

 

Unless
the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our” and the
“Company” refer to The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries.

 

Products

 

Skin Care - Our broad range of skin care products addresses
various skin care needs for women and men. 
These products include moisturizers, creams, lotions, cleansers, sun
screens and self-tanning products, a number of which are developed for use on
particular areas of the body, such as the face or the hands or around the
eyes.  Skin care products accounted for
approximately 39% of our net sales in fiscal 2009.

 

Makeup - We manufacture, market and sell a full array of
makeup products, including lipsticks, lip glosses, mascaras, foundations,
eyeshadows, nail polishes and powders. 
Many of the products are offered in an extensive array of shades and
colors.  We also sell related items such
as compacts, brushes and other makeup tools. 
Makeup products accounted for approximately 39% of our net sales in
fiscal 2009.

 

Fragrance - We offer a variety of fragrance products for
women and men.  The fragrances are sold
in various forms, including eau de parfum sprays and colognes, as well as
lotions, powders, creams and soaps that are based on a particular fragrance.  Fragrance products accounted for approximately
16% of our net sales in fiscal 2009.

 

2












Table of
Contents

 

Hair Care - Hair care products are offered mainly in salons
and in freestanding retail stores and include hair color and styling products,
shampoos, conditioners and finishing sprays. 
In fiscal 2009, hair care products accounted for approximately 6% of our
net sales.

 

Given
the personal nature of our products and the wide array of consumer preferences
and tastes, as well as competition for the attention of consumers, our strategy
has been to market and promote our products through distinctive brands seeking
to address broad preferences and tastes. 
Each brand has a single global image that is promoted with consistent
logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image and
differentiate it from other brands.

 

Estée Lauder - Estée Lauder brand products, which have been sold
since 1946, are technologically advanced and high performance products with a
reputation for innovation, sophistication, and superior quality.  The broad product line principally consists
of skin care, makeup and fragrance products that are presented in high quality
packaging.

 

Aramis and Designer Fragrances - Our Aramis and Designer
Fragrances division creates and markets fragrance and skin care products,
including the following brand names:

 

·                  Aramis - We pioneered the marketing
of prestige men’s fragrance, grooming and skin care products with the
introduction of Aramis products in 1964.

·                  Lab Series - Lab Series Skincare
for Men, introduced by the Aramis and Designer Fragrances division in 1987,
offers a full range of products for cleansing, shaving, treatment and body that
are especially formulated to answer the unique needs of men’s skin.

·                  Tommy Hilfiger - We have an exclusive
global license arrangement to develop and market a line of men’s and women’s
fragrances and cosmetics under the Tommy Hilfiger brand name.  We launched the line in 1995 with a men’s
fragrance, tommy. 
Today, we manufacture and sell a variety of fragrances and ancillary
products for men and women.

·                  Donna Karan Cosmetics -  In November 1997, we obtained the exclusive global
license to develop, market and distribute a line of fragrances and other
cosmetics under the Donna Karan New York and DKNY brand names, including
certain products that were originally sold by The Donna Karan Company.  We launched the first DKNY women’s fragrance
in fiscal 2000 and the first DKNY men’s fragrance in fiscal 2001.  Under this license, fragrances have been
expanded to include extensive lines of companion bath and body products.

·                  Michael Kors - In May 2003, we
entered into a license agreement for fragrances and beauty products under the
Michael Kors brand name.  The fragrances,
as well as ancillary bath and body products, are sold primarily in department
stores, specialty stores and freestanding Michael Kors boutiques.

·                  Sean John Fragrances - In 2005, we
entered into an exclusive license agreement to develop fragrances and other
beauty products under the Sean John brand name. 
Sean “Diddy” Combs played an active role in creating the signature
scent, “Unforgivable.”  The Unforgivable
fragrance, as well as other fragrances and ancillary products, are primarily
available at select department and specialty stores as well as travel retail
outlets around the world.

·                  Missoni - In 2006, we launched
fragrance and ancillary products under our exclusive global licensing agreement
with Milan-based fashion house, Missoni. 
Missoni products are sold in select distribution channels worldwide.

 

In
addition to the foregoing brands, we market and sell Mustang and Kiton products
as a licensee.

 

Clinique - First introduced in 1968, Clinique skin care and
makeup products are all allergy tested and 100% fragrance free and have been
designed to address individual skin types and needs.  The products are based on the research and
related expertise of leading dermatologists. 
Clinique skin care products are generally marketed as part of the 3-Step
System: Cleanse, Exfoliate, Moisturize. 
Other Clinique skin care products include de-aging solutions to help prevent,
halt and diminish the visible effects of sun, wind, stress and pollution and
assist in repair to help restore contour, minimize the look of lines and
wrinkles.  Clinique also offers lines of
fragrances.

 

Prescriptives - Introduced in 1979 and sold in five
countries, Prescriptives focuses on delivering flawless-looking skin—for all
skins, from lightest to darkest. 
Signature services include the ultra-personalized artistry of Custom
Blend Makeup and complimentary Colorprinting, which leads the customer to her
exact match foundation and customizable color cosmetics.  Prescriptives also features a personalized
skin care regime for all skins.  The
products are visually compelling and of minimalist design with a modern,
innovative image.

 

Origins - Origins was introduced in 1990.  It is positioned as a plant-based line of
skin care, makeup and aromatherapy products that combine time-tested botanical
ingredients with modern science to promote total well-being.  Origins sells its products at our
freestanding Origins stores and through stores-within-stores (which are
designed to replicate the Origins store environment within a department store),
at traditional retail counters and in perfumeries.  Origins also has a license agreement to
develop and sell products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil.

 

3












Table of
Contents

 

MžAžC - MžAžC products
comprise a broad line of color-oriented, professional cosmetics and
professional makeup tools targeting makeup artists and fashion-conscious
consumers.  The products are sold
primarily through a limited number of department and specialty stores and at
freestanding MžAžC stores.  We acquired the companies behind MžAžC in three
stages: in December 1994, March 1997 and February 1998.

 

Bobbi Brown - Acquired in October 1995, Bobbi Brown is an
exclusive beauty line developed by celebrated makeup artist Bobbi Brown with a
focus on service and teaching women to be their own makeup artists.  The Bobbi Brown line includes color
cosmetics, skin care, professional makeup brushes and tools, accessories and
fragrances.  Bobbi Brown products are primarily
sold through a limited number of department and specialty stores.

 

La Mer - La Mer products primarily consist of moisturizing
creams, lotions, cleansers, toners and other skin care products.  The line, which is available in very limited
distribution in the United States and certain other countries, is an extension
of the initial Crème de la Mer product that we acquired in 1995.

 

Aveda - We acquired the Aveda business in December 1997
and have since acquired selected Aveda distributors and retail stores.  Aveda, a prestige hair care leader, is a
manufacturer and marketer of plant-based hair care, skin care, makeup and
fragrance products.  We sell Aveda
products to third-party distributors and prestige salons and spas, cosmetology
schools, certain non-U.S. department stores and specialty retailers and
directly to consumers at our own freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and
certain Aveda Institutes.

 

Jo Malone - We acquired London-based Jo Malone Limited in October 1999.  Jo Malone is known for its unique fragrance portfolio
and luxury products for the bath, body and home.  Products are also available through a company
catalogue, at freestanding stores and at a very limited group of specialty
stores, primarily in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.

 

Bumble and bumble - In September 2006, we acquired the
remaining minority equity interest in Bumble and bumble.  We acquired a controlling majority equity
interest in June 2000.  Bumble and
bumble is a New York-based hair care and education company with two salons that
creates high-quality hair care and styling products distributed through other
top-tier salons and select prestige retailers. 
We also provide business and design education to the Bumble and bumble
network of independent salons.

 

Darphin - In April 2003, we acquired Laboratoires
Darphin, the Paris-based company dedicated to the development, manufacture and
marketing of prestige skin care and makeup products which are distributed
primarily through high-end independent pharmacies and specialty stores.

 

BeautyBank - BeautyBank is our entrepreneurial think tank division
whose mission is to develop brands and products for consumers shopping outside
of the traditional department store channel on a worldwide basis.  Brands developed under the BeautyBank
umbrella include:

 

·                  American Beauty - Launched in
2004, the luxurious fragrance, makeup and advanced skin care line celebrates
the beauty of American style.  These
products, which are sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and
Kohls.com, have been developed to meet the needs of the modern American woman,
with a straightforward makeup and skin care appeal.

·                  Flirt! -  Launched
in 2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and
Kohls.com, this makeup line is all about experimenting with color, pop culture
and trends; “you can Flirt! with the possibilities.”

·                  Good Skin™ -  Launched
in 2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and
Kohls.com, this line of skin care products was created with the expertise of a
dermatologist.   This line is color-coded for ease of use.  Select products of this brand are now
available in a number of countries around the world.  good skin, easy to choose,
easy to use, doctor formulated for you.™

·                  grassroots research labs - Introduced in March 2008,
grassroots research labs uses natural ingredients that are effective, potent
and offer the latest in skin care technology.

·                  Daisy Fuentes - In early fiscal 2007, we
launched Dianoche, the first fragrance under our license agreement with Daisy
Fuentes, which holds two scents that connect in a single bottle.  Dianoche, as well as other fragrances and
ancillary products, are available exclusively at Kohl’s Department Stores and
at Kohls.com.

 

Tom Ford - In 2006, we entered into a license agreement to
develop fragrances and other beauty products under the Tom Ford brand
name.  In fiscal 2007, we introduced Tom
Ford Black Orchid, his first signature fragrance.

 

Ojon - In 2007, we acquired Ojon Corporation, a company
based in Canada which markets naturally-derived, wildcrafted hair and skin care
beauty products using ingredients found in the world’s rainforests.

 

Our
heritage brands are Estée Lauder, Aramis and Designer Fragrances, Clinique,
Prescriptives and Origins.  MžAžC and Bobbi
Brown are our makeup artist brands.

 

4












Table of
Contents

 

Distribution

 

We
sell our products principally through limited distribution channels to
complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels include more than 30,000
points of sale in over 140 countries and territories and consist primarily of
upscale department stores, specialty retailers, upscale perfumeries and
pharmacies and prestige salons and spas. 
In addition, our products are sold in freestanding company-owned stores
and spas, our own and authorized retailer websites, stores on cruise ships,
DRTV, in-flight and duty-free shops and certain fragrances are sold in
self-select outlets.

 

We
maintain a dedicated sales force which sells to our retail accounts in North
America and in the major overseas markets, such as Western Europe and
Japan.  We have wholly-owned operations
in over 40 countries, and controlling interests in joint ventures that operate
in four other countries, through which we market, sell and distribute our
products.  In certain countries, we sell
our products through selected local distributors under contractual arrangements
designed to protect the image and position of the brands.  In addition, we sell certain products in
select domestic and international military locations.  For
information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region,
see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

 

We
sell Aveda products principally to independent salons and spas, cosmetology
schools, third-party distributors and specialty retailers and directly to
consumers at our own freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and certain Aveda
Institutes.  There are currently about
7,300 points of sale, primarily in the United States, that sell Aveda
products.  Bumble and bumble products are
principally sold to about 2,400 independent salons, primarily in the United
States.  Darphin products are principally
sold through high-end independent pharmacies, principally in Europe,
representing approximately 3,700 points of sale.

 

As
part of our strategy to diversify our distribution, we have been selectively
opening new single-brand, freestanding stores that we operate.  The Origins, Aveda and MžAžC brands are
the primary focus for this method of distribution.  At this time, we operate 601 single-brand,
freestanding stores worldwide, the majority of which are in the United States,
and expect that number to increase moderately over the next several years.  We also operate 97 multi-brand stores.

 

We
sell American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™ and Daisy Fuentes in approximately
1,000 Kohl’s Department Stores in the United States.

 

We
currently sell products from 16 of our brands directly to consumers over the
Internet through our own e-commerce sites. 
Some or all of these brands are sold over the Internet in the following
countries: the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Australia,
Korea and China.

 

As
is customary in the cosmetics industry, our practice is to accept returns of
our products from retailers if properly requested, authorized and
approved.  In accepting returns, we
typically provide a credit to the retailer against sales and accounts
receivable from that retailer on a dollar-for-dollar basis.  In recognition of this practice, and in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we report
revenues on a net sales basis, which reflects the amount of actual returns
received and an amount established for anticipated returns.  As a percentage of gross sales, returns were
4.4%, 4.4% and 4.2% in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

 

Customers

 

Our
strategy is to build strong relationships with selected retailers
globally.  Senior management works with
executives of our major retail accounts on a regular basis and we believe we
are viewed as an important supplier to these customers.  Our largest customer, Macy’s Inc., sells
products primarily within the United States and accounted for 12%, 12% and 14%
of our consolidated net sales for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively, and 11% of our accounts receivable as of June 30, 2009
and 2008.

 

Marketing

 

Our
marketing strategy is built around our mission statement: “Bringing the Best to
Everyone We Touch.”  Mrs. Estée
Lauder formulated this marketing philosophy to provide high-quality service and
products as the foundation for a solid and loyal consumer base.

 

5












Table of
Contents

 

Our
marketing efforts focus principally on promoting the quality, value and
benefits of our products.  Each of our
brands is distinctively positioned, has a single global image, and is promoted
with consistent logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image
and differentiate it from other brands. 
We regularly advertise our products on television and radio, in upscale
magazines and newspapers, the Internet, and through direct mail and photo
displays at international airports.  In
addition, our products receive extensive editorial coverage in prestige
publications and other media worldwide. 
Promotional activities and in-store displays are designed to introduce
existing consumers to different products in the line and to attract new
consumers.  Our marketing efforts also
benefit from cooperative advertising programs with retailers, some of which are
supported by coordinated promotions, such as purchase with purchase and gift
with purchase.  Our marketing and sales
executives spend considerable time in the field meeting with consumers and key
retailers and consulting with demonstrators at the points of sale.  These include Estée Lauder Beauty Advisors,
Clinique Consultants, Aramis Selling Specialists, Prescriptives Analysts,
Origins Guides and MžAžC Makeup
Artists.  At in-store counters, demonstrators
offer personal demonstrations to market individual products as well as to
provide education on basic skin care and makeup application.  We conduct extensive sampling programs and we
pioneered gift with purchase as a sampling program.  We believe that the quality and perceived
benefits of sample products have been effective inducements to purchases by new
and existing consumers.

 

We
use the Internet to educate and inform consumers about certain of our
brands.  Currently, 19 of our brands have
marketing sites, 16 of which have e-commerce capabilities.

 

Most
of our creative marketing work is done by in-house creative teams.  The creative staff designs and produces the
sales materials, advertisements and packaging for products in each brand.

 

Global
net expenses for advertising, merchandising, sampling and promotion were
$1,878.8 million, $2,034.6 million and $1,841.9 million in fiscal 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively.  These amounts
include activities relating to purchase with purchase and gift with purchase
promotions that are reflected in net sales and cost of sales.

 

Information
Systems

 

Information
systems support business processes including product development, marketing,
sales, order processing, production, distribution and finance.  Of the many systems currently being utilized,
the most significant to our business needs are: (i) a centralized data
repository of essential attributes for each of the products we offer, or plan
to offer, which enables us to globally manufacture and market products of
consistent quality; (ii) a sales analysis system to track weekly sales at
the stock keeping unit (SKU) level at most significant retail sales locations
(i.e., sell-through data), increasing our understanding of consumer preferences
and enabling us to coordinate more effectively our product development,
manufacturing and marketing strategies; (iii) an automated replenishment
system with many of our key domestic customers, allowing us to replenish
inventories for individual points of sale automatically, with minimal
paperwork; and (iv) an inventory management system to provide us with a
global view of finished goods availability relative to actual requirements.

 

We
expect that these systems will continue to provide pertinent inventory and
sales data in the short term.  However,
as part of our long-term effort to enhance these systems and increase
productivity, we are implementing our Strategic Modernization Initiative
(“SMI”), which includes an enterprise-wide global program that we expect will
deliver a single set of integrated data, processes and technologies, which
would be scalable and used to standardize business processes across brands,
operating units and sales affiliates.  As
part of SMI, we anticipate the continued migration of our operations to SAP,
with the majority of our locations being implemented through fiscal 2012.

 

Research
and Development

 

We believe that we are an industry leader in the development of new
products.  Marketing, product development and packaging groups work with
our research and development group to identify shifts in consumer preferences,
develop new products and improve, redesign or reformulate existing
products.  In addition, research and development personnel work closely
with quality assurance and manufacturing personnel on a worldwide basis to
provide ongoing technical assistance and know-how, to ensure consistent global
standards for our products and to deliver products with attributes that fulfill
consumer expectations.  The research and
development group has long-standing working relationships with several U.S. and
international medical and educational facilities, which supplement internal
capabilities.  Members of the group are also responsible for regulatory
compliance matters.

 

We do not conduct animal testing on our products or ingredients, nor
ask others to test on our behalf, except when required by law.  We evaluate our finished products in clinical
tests on volunteer panels.

 

We maintain ongoing research and development programs at our facilities
in Melville, New York; Oevel, Belgium; Petersfield, United Kingdom; Tokyo,
Japan; Markham, Ontario; Blaine, Minnesota; Shanghai, China; and Colombes,
France.  As of June 30, 2009, we had approximately 435 employees
engaged in research and development.  Research and development
expenditures totaled $81.6 million, $80.9 million and $74.4 million in
fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

 

6












Table of Contents

 

Manufacturing,
Warehousing and Raw Materials

 

We
manufacture skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products primarily in
the United States, Belgium, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada.  We continue to streamline our manufacturing
processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve innovation, increase
efficiencies and reduce costs.  Our major
manufacturing facilities operate as “focus” plants that primarily manufacture
one type of product (e.g., lipsticks) for all of the principal brands.  Our plants are modern and our manufacturing
processes are substantially automated. 
While we believe that our manufacturing facilities are sufficient to
meet current and reasonably anticipated manufacturing requirements, we continue
to identify opportunities to make significant improvements in capacity and
productivity.  To capitalize on
innovation and other supply benefits, we continue to utilize third parties on a
global basis for finished goods production, including an increased percentage
of volume in Asia/Pacific to support our growth.

 

We
have established a global distribution network designed to meet the changing
demands of our customers while maintaining service levels.  We are continuously evaluating and
restructuring this physical distribution network.  We have begun to establish regional inventory
centers strategically positioned throughout the world in order to facilitate
efficient delivery of our products to our customers.

 

The
principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are essential
oils, alcohol and specialty chemicals. 
We also purchase packaging components that are manufactured to our
design specifications.  Procurement of
materials for all manufacturing facilities is generally made on a global basis
through our Global Supplier Relations department.  We are making a concentrated effort in
supplier rationalization with the specific objective of reducing costs,
increasing innovation and speed to market and improving quality.  In addition, we continue to focus on supply
sourcing within the region of manufacture to allow for improved supply chain
efficiencies.  As a result of sourcing
initiatives, there is increased dependency on certain suppliers, but we believe
that our portfolio of these suppliers has adequate resources and facilities to
overcome any unforeseen interruption of supply. 
In the past, we have been able to obtain an adequate supply of essential
raw materials and currently believe we have adequate sources of supply for
virtually all components of our products.

 

We
are continually benchmarking the performance of the supply chain and will add
or delete suppliers, and adjust our distribution networks and manufacturing
footprint based upon the changing needs of the business.  As we integrate acquired brands, we
continually seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities
to improve our overall supply chain performance.

 

Competition

 

The skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair
care businesses are characterized by vigorous competition throughout the
world.  Brand recognition, quality,
performance and price have a significant impact on consumers’ choices among
competing products and brands. 
Advertising, promotion, merchandising, the pace and timing of new
product introductions, line extensions and the quality of in-store
demonstrations also have a significant impact on consumers’ buying
decisions.  With our numerous brands,
sold in various channels, we are one of the world’s leading manufacturers and
marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  We compete against a number of companies,
some of which have substantially greater resources than we do.

 

Our
principal competitors consist of large, well-known, multinational manufacturers and
marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products,
most of which market and sell their products under multiple brand names.  They include, among others, L’Oreal S.A.;
Shiseido Company, Ltd.; LVMH Moët Hennessey Louis Vuitton; Coty, Inc.; and
The Procter & Gamble Company.  We also face
competition from a number of independent brands, as well as some retailers that
have developed their own beauty brands. 
Certain of our competitors also have ownership interests in retailers
that are customers of ours.

 

Trademarks,
Patents and Copyrights

 

The
trademarks used in our business include the brand names Estée Lauder, Clinique,
Aramis, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, DKNY,
MžAžC, Bobbi Brown,
La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Michael Kors, American
Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™, grassroots research labs, Ojon and the names of
many of the products sold under these brands. 
We own the material trademark rights used in connection with the
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of most of our major products both in
the United States and in the other principal countries where such products are
sold.  We are the exclusive worldwide
licensee for fragrances, cosmetics and/or related products for Tommy Hilfiger,
Donna Karan New York, DKNY, Kiton, Michael Kors, Sean John, Missoni, Daisy
Fuentes and Tom Ford.  Origins sells
products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil and Aramis and Designer
Fragrances sells a fragrance in the Americas region using the name Mustang, in
each case pursuant to a license agreement. 
We protect our trademarks for our principal products in the United
States and significant markets worldwide. 
We consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our
business.

 

A
number of our products incorporate patented, patent-pending or proprietary
technology in formulations or packaging. 
In addition, several products are covered by design patents, patent
applications or copyrights.  While we
consider these patents and copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be
important, no single patent or copyright is considered material to the conduct
of our business.

 

7












Table of
Contents

 

Employees

 

At
June 30, 2009, we had approximately 31,300 full-time employees worldwide
(including certain demonstrators at points of sale who are employed by us), of
whom approximately 12,700 are employed in the United States and Canada.  None of our employees in the United States is
covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 
In certain other countries, a limited number of employees are covered by
a works council agreement or other syndicate arrangements.  We believe that relations with our employees
are good.  We have never encountered a
material strike or work stoppage in the United States or in any other
country where we have a significant number of employees.

 

Government
Regulation

 

We
and our products are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration
and the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, as well as by various
other Federal, state, local and international regulatory authorities and the
regulatory authorities in the countries in which our products are produced or
sold.  Such regulations principally
relate to the ingredients, labeling, packaging and marketing of our
products.  We believe that we are in
substantial compliance with such regulations, as well as with applicable
Federal, state, local and international and other countries’ rules and
regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the
environment.  There are no significant
capital expenditures for environmental control matters either planned in the
current year or expected in the near future. 
Along with other unrelated parties, we have been named as a potentially
responsible party by the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New
York with regard to a landfill in Long Island, New York.  See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”

 

Seasonality

 

Our
results of operations in total, by region and by product category, are subject
to seasonal fluctuations, with net sales in the first half of the fiscal year
typically being slightly higher than in the second half of the fiscal
year.  The higher net sales in the first
half of the fiscal year are attributable to the increased levels of purchasing
by retailers for the holiday selling season and for fall fashion makeup
introductions.  Many of our customers
that are retailers follow a 4-4-5 retail calendar which may influence the
amount and timing of their order placement and receipt of goods in any fiscal
quarter.  In a traditional 4-4-5 retail
calendar, each fiscal quarter is comprised of two 4-week periods and one 5-week
period, with one extra week in one quarter every seven years.  As a result, the retail quarter-end and the
fiscal quarter-end may be different by up to six days.  Fluctuations in net sales and operating
income in total and by geographic region and product category in any fiscal
quarter may be attributable to the level and scope of new product
introductions.  Additionally, gross
margins and operating expenses are impacted on a quarter-by-quarter basis by
variations in our launch calendar and the timing of promotions, including
purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.

 

Availability
of Reports

 

We
make available financial information, news releases and other information on
our website at www.elcompanies.com. 
There is a direct link from the website to our Securities and Exchange
Commission filings via the EDGAR database, where our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge
as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports and amendments
with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Stockholders may also contact Investor
Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to
obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.

 

Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct

 

The
Board of Directors has developed corporate governance practices to help it
fulfill its responsibilities to stockholders in providing general direction and
oversight of management.  These practices are set forth in our Corporate
Governance Guidelines.  We also have a Code of Conduct (“Code”) applicable
to all employees, officers and directors of the Company, including, without
limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other
senior financial officers.  These documents, the charters for the Audit
Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Board Affairs Committee,
and any waiver of a provision of the Code granted to any senior officer or
director or material amendment to the Code, if any, may be found in the
“Investors” section of our website: www.elcompanies.com under the heading
“Corporate Governance.”  Stockholders may
also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153
or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these documents without charge.

 

8












Table of
Contents

 

Executive
Officers

 

The
following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive
officers:

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Position(s) Held
  
 
 
  
  John
  Demsey
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  President
  
 
 
  
  Amy
  DiGeso
  
  
   
  
  
  57
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Global Human Resources
  
 
 
  
  Fabrizio
  Freda
  
  
   
  
  
  51
  
  
   
  
  
  President,
  Chief Executive Officer and a Director
  
 
 
  
  Harvey
  Gedeon
  
  
   
  
  
  66
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Research & Development and Product Innovation
  
 
 
  
  Richard
  W. Kunes
  
  
   
  
  
  56
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
  
 
 
  
  Evelyn
  H. Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  73
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior
  Corporate Vice President
  
 
 
  
  Leonard
  A. Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  76
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman
  Emeritus and a Director
  
 
 
  
  Ronald
  S. Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  65
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman
  of Clinique Laboratories, LLC
  
 
 
  
  William
  P. Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Chairman and a Director
  
 
 
  
  Sara
  E. Moss
  
  
   
  
  
  62
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President and General Counsel
  
 
 
  
  Gregory
  F. Polcer
  
  
   
  
  
  54
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Global Supply Chain
  
 
 
  
  Cedric
  Prouvé
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  President – International
  
 
 
  
  Alexandra
  C. Trower
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President – Global Communications
  
 


 

John Demsey was appointed Group
President in July 2006.  In this role, he is currently responsible
for the Estée Lauder, M·A·C, Sean John, Prescriptives, Tom Ford Beauty, Bobbi
Brown, Jo Malone and La Mer brands.  In January 2005, Mr. Demsey
became Global Brand President of Estée Lauder after serving as President and
Managing Director of M·A·C since 1998.  From 1991 to 1998, he held several
positions with Estée Lauder, including Senior Vice President of Sales and
Education for Estée Lauder USA and Canada.  Before joining us, he worked
for Revlon, Borghese, Alexandra de Markoff Cosmetics, and Lancaster
Cosmetics.  He also held various executive retail positions at
Bloomingdale’s, Macy’s, Benetton and Saks Fifth Avenue.  Mr. Demsey
serves as Chairman of the M·A·C AIDS Fund and is active in many other AIDS-related
organizations.

 

Amy DiGeso became Executive Vice
President - Global Human Resources in May 2006.  From May 2005,
when she joined us, to May 2006 she was Senior Vice President - Global
Human Resources.  She was Senior Partner - Global Human Resource in charge
of the Human Resources Department at PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP from May 2001
through June 2003.  From April 1999 through April 2001, Ms. DiGeso
was President of the Popular Club Plan, a direct sales subsidiary of Federated
Department Stores, and from May 1992 through December 1998, she
served in various executive capacities at Mary Kay, Inc., including Chief
Executive Officer from November 1996 through December 1998. 
Since June 2003, Ms. DiGeso has been engaged in various philanthropic
activities.

 

Fabrizio Freda is President and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company.  From March 2008
through June 2009, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company where he was instrumental in designing the Company’s long-term
strategic plan and oversaw Clinique, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Jo Malone, Aveda,
Bumble and bumble and the Aramis and Designer Fragrances Division.  He also was responsible for the Company’s
International Division, as well as Global Operations, Research and Development,
Packaging, Quality Assurance, Merchandise Design, Corporate Store Design and
Retail Store Operations.  Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Freda served in a number of positions of
increasing responsibility at The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”),
where he was responsible for various operating, marketing and key strategic
efforts for over 20 years.  From 2001
through 2007 Mr. Freda was President, Global Snacks, at P&G. Mr. Freda
also spent more than a decade in the Health and Beauty Care division at
P&G.  From 1986 to 1988 he directed
marketing and strategic planning for Gucci SpA.

 

Harvey Gedeon became Executive Vice
President - Research and Development in July 2004 and added
responsibilities for Corporate Product Innovation in 2007 and Package
Development in 2008.  From January 2000 to July 2004, he was
Senior Vice President - Research and Development.  Prior to joining us in January 2000,
Mr. Gedeon was Executive Vice President and General Manager, Research and
Development and Quality Assurance for Revlon, Inc. from 1997 through 1999.

 

Richard W. Kunes became Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2004.  Prior
thereto, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2000. 
He joined us in 1986 and served in various finance-related positions until November 1993,
when he was named Vice President — Operations Finance Worldwide.  From January 1998
through September 2000, Mr. Kunes was Vice President — Financial
Administration and Corporate Controller.  Prior to joining us, he held
finance and controller positions at the Colgate-Palmolive Company.

 

Evelyn H. Lauder has been Senior Corporate
Vice President since 1989, and previously served as Vice President and in other
executive capacities since first joining us in 1959 as Education
Director.  She is a member of the Board of Overseers of Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, a member of the Boards of Trustees of Central
Park Conservancy, Inc., The Trinity School in New York City (Trustee
Emirata), a member of the Board of Directors of New Yorkers for Parks, an
Honorary Board Member of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories and the Founder and
Chairman of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation.

 

9











Table of
Contents

 

Leonard A. Lauder is Chairman Emeritus and a member of the
Board of Directors.  He was Chairman of
the Board of Directors from 1995 through June 2009 and served as our Chief
Executive Officer from 1982 through 1999 and President from 1972 until
1995.  Mr. Lauder formally joined us
in 1958 after serving as an officer in the United States Navy.  Since joining, he has held various positions,
including executive officer positions other than those described above.  He is Chairman Emeritus of the Board of
Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee of the
University of Pennsylvania, a Trustee of The Aspen Institute and the co-founder
and director of the Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation.  He also served as a member of the White House
Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.

 

Ronald S. Lauder has served as Chairman of Clinique
Laboratories, LLC since returning from government service in 1987 and was
Chairman of Estee Lauder International, Inc. from 1987 through 2002.   He was a member of
the Board of Directors of the Company from 1968 to 1986 and again from 1988 to July 2009.  Mr. Lauder joined the Company in 1964 and
has served in various capacities.  From
1983 to 1986, Mr. Lauder served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
for European and NATO Affairs.  From 1986
to 1987, he was U.S. Ambassador to Austria. 
He is non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Central
European Media Enterprises Ltd.  He is
also an Honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Museum of Modern Art
and President of the Neue Galerie.

 

William P. Lauder is Executive Chairman and, in such role, he
is Chairman of the Board of Directors. 
He was Chief Executive Officer of the Company from March 2008
through June 2009 and President and Chief Executive Officer from July 2004
through February 2008.  From January 2003
through June 2004, he was Chief Operating Officer.  From July 2001 through 2002, he was
Group President responsible for the worldwide business of Clinique and Origins
and the Company’s retail store and on-line operations.  From 1998 to 2001, he was President of
Clinique Laboratories, LLC.  Prior to
1998, he was President of Origins Natural Resources Inc., and he had been the
senior officer of that division since its inception in 1990.  Prior thereto, he served in various positions
since joining the Company in 1986.  He is
a member of the Boards of Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania and The
Trinity School in New York City and the Boards of Directors of the Fresh Air
Fund, the 92nd Street Y, the Partnership for New York City,
GLG Partners Inc. and the Advisory Board of Zelnick Media.

 

Sara E. Moss is Executive Vice President
and General Counsel.  She became
Executive Vice President in November 2004.  She joined us as Senior
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in September 2003.  She
was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes Inc. from 1996 to
February 2003, and Senior Litigation Partner for Howard, Smith &
Levin (now Covington & Burling) in New York from 1984 to 1996. 
Prior to 1984, Ms. Moss served as an Assistant United States Attorney in
the Criminal Division in the Southern District of New York, was an associate at
the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardwell and was Law Clerk to the
Honorable Constance Baker Motley, a U.S. District Judge in the Southern
District of New York.

 

Gregory F. Polcer became Executive Vice President - Global
Supply Chain in July 2008.  He is responsible for Global Direct and
Indirect Procurement, Manufacturing, Logistics, Quality Assurance and
Environmental Affairs and Safety.  From 1988 to 2008, he worked for
Unilever where he designed and implemented global, regional and local
initiatives.  Most recently, from 2006 to 2008, he served as the Senior
Vice President, Supply Chain for Unilever where he integrated the North and
Latin American Supply Chains, provided senior leadership for all global supply
management and established a global outsourcing plan.  He served as Senior
Vice President, Supply Chain - North America from 2005 to 2006 and Senior Vice
President, Supply Chain, Home and Personal Care — North America from 2002 to
2004.

 

Cedric Prouvé became Group President - International in January 2003. 
He is responsible for sales and profits in our International Division, which
includes all markets outside of North America, our Travel Retail business
worldwide and all of the activities of our sales affiliates and distributor
relationships.  From August 2000 through December 2002 he was
the General Manager of our Japanese sales affiliate.  From January 1997
to August 2000, he was Vice President, General Manager, Travel
Retail.  He started with us in 1994 as General Manager, Travel Retailing -
Asia Pacific Region and was given the added responsibility of General Manager
of our Singapore affiliate in 1995.  Prior to joining us he worked at
L’Oreal in sales and management positions in the Americas and Asia/Pacific.

 

Alexandra C. Trower became Executive Vice
President - Global Communications in April 2008.  She directs the Company’s overall
communications strategy, oversees brand communications, corporate
communications, internal communications and consumer communications.  Before joining us, Ms. Trower was Senior
Vice President, Media Relations for Bank of America from January 2004 to March 2008.  From 1997 to 2002, she worked at JPMorgan
Chase, where she was responsible for corporate communications at JPMorgan
Fleming Asset Management.

 

Each
executive officer serves for a one-year term ending at the next annual meeting
of the Board of Directors, subject to his or her applicable employment
agreement and his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.

 

10












Table of
Contents

 

Item 1A.  Risk
Factors.

 

There
are risks associated with an investment in our securities.

 

Please
consider the following risks and all of the other information in this annual
report on Form 10-K and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Our
business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not
presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial.  If any of the events contemplated by the
following discussion of risks should occur or other risks arise or develop, our
business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, as well as
the trading prices of our securities, may be adversely affected.

 

The beauty business is highly competitive,
and if we are unable to compete effectively our results will suffer.

 

We
face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including
multinational consumer product companies.  Some of these competitors have
greater resources than we do and may be able to respond to changing business
and economic conditions more quickly than us.  Competition in the beauty
business is based on pricing of products, innovation, perceived value, service
to the consumer, promotional activities, advertising, special events, new
product introductions, electronic commerce initiatives and other
activities.  It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our
competitors’ actions in these areas.  In particular, the fragrance
category in the United States is influenced by the high volume of new product
introductions by diverse companies across several different distribution
channels.  Also, the trend toward
consolidation in the retail trade, particularly in developed markets such as
the United States and Western Europe, has resulted in us becoming increasingly
dependent on key retailers, including large-format retailers, who have
increased their bargaining strength. 
This trend has also resulted in an increased risk related to the
concentration of our customers.  A severe
adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material
adverse effect on us.  Our ability to compete also depends on the
continued strength of our brands, our ability to attract and retain key talent
and other personnel, the efficiency of our manufacturing facilities and
distribution network, and our ability to protect our intellectual
property.  Our inability to continue to compete effectively in countries
around the world could have an adverse impact on our business.

 

Our inability to anticipate and respond to
market trends and changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our
financial results.

 

Our
continued success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a
timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer tastes for skin care,
makeup, fragrance and hair care products as well as to where and how consumers
shop for those products.  We must continually work to develop, produce and
market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands,
achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and
where we market and sell our products.  While we devote considerable effort
and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, we
recognize that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can
change rapidly.  If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in
the market for our products and changing consumer demands, our financial
results will suffer.

 

Our future success depends on our ability to achieve our long-term
strategy.

 

Our vision is to be the global leader in prestige beauty.  To achieve our goal, we are implementing a long-term strategy to guide the Company through fiscal 2013.  The plan has numerous initiatives across regions, product categories, brands and functions that are designed to leverage our strengths, make us more cost efficient and grow our sales. 

Achieving
our long-term objectives will require investment in new capabilities, brands,
categories, distribution channels, technologies and geographic markets.  These investments may result in short-term
costs without any current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our
earnings, at least in the short term.  In
addition, we may dispose of or discontinue select brands or streamline
operations and incur costs or special charges in doing so.  Although we believe that our strategy will
lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, we may not realize, in
full or in part, the anticipated benefits. 
The failure to realize benefits, which may be due to our ability to
execute plans or other risks described herein, global economic conditions, competition,
changes in the beauty industry and the other risks described herein, could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

 

11












Table of
Contents

 

Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks.

 

We continuously review acquisition opportunities that would expand our
current product offerings, our distribution channels, increase the size and
geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating
efficiency opportunities.  If required,
the financing for any of these acquisitions could result in an increase in our
indebtedness, dilute the interests of our stockholders or both.  Acquisitions may entail numerous risks,
including:

 

·                  difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or
products, including the loss of key employees from or customers of acquired
businesses;

·                  diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses;

·                  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and
customers; and

·                  risks of entering distribution channels, categories or markets in which
we have limited or no prior experience.

 

Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired
business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and operating results.  In
addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable
acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms.

 

We are required to
annually test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives to determine
if impairment has occurred.  If the
testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to
record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying
value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of
the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is
made.  We cannot accurately predict the
amount and timing of any impairment of assets. 
Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired,
there will be an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.

 

A general economic
downturn or sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer
purchases of discretionary items and/or the financial strength of our customers
that are retailers, which could adversely affect our financial results.

 

The general level
of consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including general
economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, and consumer
confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control.  Consumer
purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods,
when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products.  A
decline in consumer purchases of discretionary items also tends to impact our
customers that are retailers.  We
generally extend credit to a retailer based on an evaluation of its financial
condition, usually without requiring collateral.  However, the financial difficulties of a
retailer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that
customer.  We may also assume more credit
risk relating to the receivables from that retailer.  Our inability to collect the receivable from
one of our largest customers or from a group of customers could have a material
adverse effect on our business and our financial condition.  If a retailer was to liquidate, we may incur
additional costs if we choose to purchase the retailer’s inventory of our
products to protect brand equity.

 

In addition, sudden disruptions in business
conditions, for example, as a consequence of events such as a pandemic or those
that are currently taking place in the Middle East, or as a result of a
terrorist attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation,
or as a result of adverse weather conditions or climate changes, can have a
short and, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending.

 

Events that impact consumers’ willingness or ability
to travel and/or purchase our products while traveling may impact our travel
retail business, which is a significant contributor to our overall results.

 

A
downturn in the economies in which we sell our products or a sudden disruption
of business conditions in those economies could adversely affect our sales and
profitability.

 

We
face risks associated with the current global credit crisis.

 

The volatility in
the financial markets and the related economic downturn in markets throughout
the world could continue to have a material adverse effect on our
business.  While we currently generate
significant cash flows from our ongoing operations and have access to global
credit markets through our various financing activities, credit markets have
recently experienced significant disruptions and certain leading financial
institutions have either declared bankruptcy or have shown significant
deterioration in their financial stability. 
Further deterioration in global financial markets could make future
financing difficult or more expensive. 
If any financial institutions that are parties to our undrawn revolving
credit facility supporting our commercial paper program or other financing
arrangements, such as interest rate or foreign exchange hedging instruments,
were to declare bankruptcy or become insolvent, they may be unable to perform
under their agreements with us.  This
could leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain
interest rate or foreign currency exposures.

 

12












Table of
Contents

 

Changes in laws, regulations and policies
that affect our business could adversely affect our financial results.

 

Our
business is subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies.  Changes
in the laws, regulations and policies, including the interpretation or
enforcement thereof, that affect, or will affect, our business, including
changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, trade rules and
customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory
proceedings, and any action we may take as a result could adversely affect our
financial results.

 

Our success depends, in part, on
the quality and safety of our products.

 

Our success depends, in part, on the quality and
safety of our products.  If our products
are found to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our
consumers’ standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could
suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we
could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could
result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

Our success depends, in part, on
our key personnel.

 

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain
our key personnel, including our executive officers and senior management
team.  The unexpected loss of one or more
of our key employees could adversely affect our business.  Our success also depends, in part, on our
continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified
personnel.  Competition for these
employees can be intense.  We may not be
able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and
our failure to do so could adversely affect our business.  This risk may be exacerbated by the stresses
associated with the implementation of our strategic plan and other initiatives.

 

We are subject to risks related
to our international operations.

 

We
operate on a global basis, with approximately 59% of our fiscal 2009 net sales
generated outside the United States.  We maintain offices in over 40
countries and have key operational facilities located outside the United States
that manufacture, warehouse or distribute goods for sale throughout the
world.  Foreign operations are subject to many risks and uncertainties,
including:

 

·                      fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates, which can affect our results of operations, the value of our foreign
assets,  the relative
prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same markets
and the cost of certain inventory and non-inventory items required in our
operations;

·                      changes in foreign laws, regulations and
policies, including restrictions on trade, import and export license
requirements,  and tariffs and taxes, as well as changes in United States laws and
regulations relating to foreign trade and investment; and

·                      adverse weather conditions, social,
economic and geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other
military action.

 

These
risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results
of operations and financial condition.

 

A disruption in operations could adversely
affect our business and financial results.

 

As
a company engaged in manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are
subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial
accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions
in supply chain or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing
sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other
regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over
which we have no control.  If such an event were to occur, it could have
an adverse affect on our business and financial results.

 

Our information systems and websites may be susceptible to outages and
other risks.

 

We
have information systems that support our business processes, including product
development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution,
finance and intracompany communications throughout the world.  We have e-commerce and other Internet
websites in the United States and many other countries.  These systems may be susceptible to outages
due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and
similar events.  Despite the implementation
of network security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to computer
viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering.  The occurrence of these or other events could
disrupt or damage our information systems and adversely affect our business and
results of operations.

 

13












Table of
Contents

 

We are subject to risks associated with implementing global information
systems.

 

As
part of a program that we call our “Strategic Modernization Initiative,” or
“SMI,” we are implementing enterprise-wide global programs intended to deliver
a single set of integrated data, processes and technologies, which would be
scalable and used to standardize business processes across brands, operating
units and sales affiliates.  As part of
SMI, we anticipate the continued migration of our operations to SAP, with the
majority of our locations to be implemented through fiscal 2012.  Like most entity-wide changes to software
systems, the implementation of SMI involves risks and uncertainties.  Failure to implement SMI as planned, in terms
of timing, specifications and/or costs, could have an adverse impact on our
business and results of operations.

 

The trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall
based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial
performance.

 

Our
business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth
and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal
quarter.  We believe that this
longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders.  At the same time, however, we recognize that
it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our forecast of net
sales and earnings per share. 
Accordingly, when we announced our year-end financial results for fiscal
2009, we provided guidance as to our expected net sales and earnings per share
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 and the quarter ending September 30,
2009.  While we generally expect to
provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter,
we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at
such times or otherwise.  In addition,
the longer-term guidance we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the
time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance
over a number of years.  Such targets are
more speculative than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations.

 

In
all of our public statements when we make, or update, a forward-looking
statement about our sales and/or earnings expectations or expectations
regarding restructuring or other initiatives, we accompany such statements
directly, or by reference to a public document, with a list of factors that
could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we expect.  Such a list is included, among other places,
in our earnings press release and in our periodic filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (e.g., in our reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q).  These and other factors may make it difficult
for outside observers, such as research analysts, to predict what our earnings
will be in any given fiscal quarter or year.

 

Outside
analysts and investors have the right to make their own predictions of our
financial results for any future period. 
Outside analysts, however, have access to no more material information
about our plans than any other public investor, and we do not endorse their
predictions as to our future performance. 
Nor do we assume any responsibility to correct the predictions of
outside analysts or others when they differ from our own internal
expectations.  If and when we announce
actual results that differ from those that outside analysts or others have been
predicting, the market price of our securities could be affected.  Investors who rely on the predictions of
outside analysts or others when making investment decisions with respect to our
securities do so at their own risk.  We
take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in
the prices of our securities.

 

Failure to adequately maintain the security of our electronic and other
confidential information could materially adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations.

 

We are dependent upon automated information technology processes.  As part of our normal business activities, we
collect and store certain confidential information, including personal
information with respect to customers and employees.  We may share some of this information with
vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business.  Moreover, the success of our e-commerce
operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential and personal
data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments.  Any failure on the part of us or our vendors
to maintain the security of our confidential data and our employees’ and
customers’ personal information, including via the penetration of our network
security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information,
could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial
obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and
private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in
deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us and other
competitive disadvantages, and thus could have a material adverse impact on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a
security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources
to enhance our information security systems and could result in a disruption to
our operations.

 

As we
outsource more functions, we will become more dependent on the entities
performing those functions.

 

As part of our
long-term strategy, we are continually looking for opportunities to provide
essential business services in a more cost-effective manner.  In some
cases, this requires the outsourcing of functions or parts of functions that
can be performed more effectively by external service providers.  These
include certain information systems functions such as information technology
operations, and certain human resource functions such as employee benefit plan
administration.  While we believe we conduct appropriate due diligence
before entering into agreements with the outsourcing entity, the failure of one
or more entities to provide the expected services, provide them on a timely
basis or to provide them at the prices we expect may have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

 

14












Table
of Contents

 

Item 1B