Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

PART I

Item 1.  Business.

The Estée Lauder
Companies Inc., founded in 1946 by Estée and Joseph Lauder, is one of the world’s
leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and
hair care products.  Our products are
sold in over 130 countries and territories under the following well-recognized
brand names: Estée Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Prescriptives, Lab Series,
Origins, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Rodan +
Fields, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™ and Grassroots.  We are also the global licensee for
fragrances and cosmetics sold under the Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, Michael
Kors, Donald Trump, Sean John, Missoni and Daisy Fuentes brand names.  Each brand is distinctly positioned within
the market for beauty products.

We are a pioneer in the
cosmetics industry and believe we are a leader in the industry due to the
global recognition of our brand names, our leadership in product innovation,
our strong market position in key geographic markets and the consistently high
quality of our products.  We sell our
prestige products principally through limited distribution channels to
complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels, encompassing over 20,000
points of sale, consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty
retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and
spas.  In addition, our products are sold
in freestanding company-owned stores and spas, our own and authorized retailer
web sites, stores on cruise ships, television direct marketing, in-flight and
duty-free shops and certain fragrances are sold in self-select outlets.  We believe that our strategy of pursuing
limited distribution strengthens our relationships with retailers, enables our
brands to be among the best selling product lines at the stores and heightens
the aspirational quality of our brands.

Beginning in fiscal 2005,
we began to sell our newly developed brands, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™
and Grassroots at Kohl’s Department Stores. 
In fiscal 2006, we developed Dianoche by Daisy Fuentes, which became
available at Kohl’s Department Stores in August 2006.

In April 2006, we
completed the sale of certain assets and operations of our reporting unit that
marketed and sold Stila brand products, which was originally acquired in August
1999.  In February 2004, we sold the
assets and operations of our reporting unit that sold jane
brand products, which was originally acquired in October 1997.

We have been controlled
by the Lauder family since the founding of our company.  Members of the Lauder family, some of whom
are directors, executive officers and/or employees, beneficially own, directly
or indirectly, as of August 22, 2006, shares of Class A Common Stock and Class
B Common Stock having approximately 88.2% of the outstanding voting power of
the Common Stock.

Unless the context
requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to
The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Products

Skin Care
- - Our broad range of skin care products addresses various skin care needs for
women and men.  These products include
moisturizers, creams, lotions, cleansers, sun screens and self-tanning
products, a number of which are developed for use on particular areas of the
body, such as the face or the hands or around the eyes.  Skin care products accounted for
approximately 37% of our net sales in fiscal 2006.

Makeup
- - We manufacture, market and sell a full array of makeup products, including
lipsticks, lip glosses, mascaras, foundations, eyeshadows, nail polishes and
powders.  Many of the products are
offered in an extensive array of shades and colors.  We also sell related items such as compacts,
brushes and other makeup tools.  Makeup
products accounted for approximately 39% of our net sales in fiscal 2006.


 2 



 


 

Fragrance
- - We offer a variety of fragrance products for women and men.  The fragrances are sold in various forms,
including eau de parfum sprays and colognes, as well as lotions, powders,
creams and soaps that are based on a particular fragrance.  Fragrance products accounted for
approximately 19% of our net sales in fiscal 2006.

Hair Care
- - Hair care products are offered mainly in salons and in freestanding retail
stores and include hair color and styling products, shampoos, conditioners and
finishing sprays.  In fiscal 2006, hair
care products accounted for approximately 5% of our net sales.

Given the personal nature
of our products and the wide array of consumer preferences and tastes, as well
as competition for the attention of consumers, our strategy has been to market
and promote our products through distinctive brands seeking to address broad
preferences and tastes.  Each brand has a
single global image that is promoted with consistent logos, packaging and
advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it from other
brands.

Estée
Lauder - Estée Lauder brand products, which have been sold
since 1946, are positioned as luxurious, classic and aspirational.  We believe that Estée Lauder brand products
are technologically advanced and innovative and have a worldwide reputation for
excellence.  The broad product line
principally consists of skin care, makeup and fragrance products that are
presented in high quality packaging.  In
April 2005, we announced a creative collaboration with fashion designer, Tom
Ford, pursuant to which he collaborated with the Estée Lauder brand to create a
Tom Ford for Estée Lauder collection, which launched in fiscal 2006.

Aramis
- - We pioneered the marketing of prestige men’s fragrance, grooming and skin
care products with the introduction of Aramis products in 1964.

Clinique
- - First introduced in 1968, Clinique skin care and makeup products are all
allergy tested and 100% fragrance free and have been designed to address
individual skin types and needs.  The
products are based on the research and related expertise of leading
dermatologists.  Clinique skin care
products are generally marketed as part of the 3-Step System: Cleanse,
Exfoliate, Moisturize.  Clinique also
offers fragrances for men and women and a line of hair care products.

Prescriptives
- - We developed and introduced Prescriptives in 1979.  Prescriptives is positioned as a color
authority with an advanced collection of highly individualized products
primarily addressing the makeup and skin care needs of contemporary women with
active lifestyles.  The products are
characterized by simple concepts, minimalist design and an innovative image
and, through a system of color application and extensive range of makeup
shades, accommodate a diverse group of consumers.

Lab
Series - Lab Series Skincare for Men, introduced by Aramis 17
years ago, offers the full range of advanced products for cleansing, shaving,
treatment and body that are especially formulated to answer the unique needs of
men’s skin.

Origins
- - Origins was introduced in 1990.  It is
positioned as a plant-based line of skin care, makeup and aromatherapy products
that combine time-tested botanical ingredients with modern science to promote
total well-being.  Origins sells its
products at our freestanding Origins stores and through stores-within-stores
(which are designed to replicate the Origins store environment within a
department store), at traditional retail counters, in perfumeries and directly
to consumers over the Internet.  Origins
also has a license agreement to develop and sell products using the name of Dr.
Andrew Weil.

Tommy
Hilfiger - We have an exclusive global license arrangement to
develop and market a line of men’s and women’s fragrances and cosmetics under
the Tommy Hilfiger brand.  We launched
the line in 1995 with a men’s fragrance, tommy.  Today, we manufacture and sell a variety of
fragrances and ancillary products for men and women.

MžAžC - MžAžC
products comprise a broad line of color-oriented, professional cosmetics and
professional makeup tools targeting makeup artists and fashion-conscious
consumers.  The products are sold through
a limited number of department and specialty stores, at freestanding MžAžC
stores and directly to consumers over the Internet.  We acquired the companies behind MžAžC
in three stages: in December 1994, March 1997 and February 1998.

Bobbi
Brown - In October 1995, we acquired the Bobbi Brown line of
color cosmetics, professional makeup brushes and skin care products.  Bobbi Brown products are manufactured to our
specifications, primarily by third parties, and sold through a limited number
of department and specialty stores and directly to consumers over the Internet.

La Mer
- - La Mer products primarily consist of moisturizing creams, lotions, cleansers,
toners and other skin care products.  The
line, which is available in very limited distribution in the United States and
certain other countries, is an extension of the initial Crème de la Mer product
that we acquired in 1995.


 3 



 


 

Donna
Karan Cosmetics - In November
1997, we obtained the exclusive global license to develop, market and
distribute a line of fragrances and other cosmetics under the Donna Karan New
York and DKNY trademarks, including certain products that were originally sold
by The Donna Karan Company.  We launched
the first DKNY women’s fragrance in fiscal 2000 and the first DKNY men’s
fragrance in fiscal 2001.  Under this
license, fragrances have been expanded to include extensive lines of companion
bath and body products.

Aveda
- - We acquired the Aveda business in December 1997 and have since acquired
selected Aveda distributors and retail stores. 
Aveda, a prestige hair care leader, is a manufacturer and marketer of
plant-based hair care, skin care, makeup and fragrance products.  We sell Aveda products to third-party
distributors and prestige salons and spas, cosmetology schools, certain
non-U.S. department stores and specialty retailers and directly to consumers at
our own freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and certain Aveda Institutes.

Jo Malone
- - We acquired London-based Jo Malone Limited in October 1999.  Jo Malone is known for its prestige skin
care, fragrance and hair care products showcased at its flagship store in London.  Products are also available through a company
catalogue, at freestanding stores and at a very limited group of specialty
stores in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.

Bumble
and bumble - In June 2000, we acquired a controlling majority
equity interest in Bumble and Bumble Products, LLC, a marketer and distributor
of quality hair care products, and Bumble and Bumble, LLC, the operator of a
premier hair salon in New York City (collectively “Bumble and bumble”).  Bumble and bumble styling and other hair care
products are distributed to top-tier salons and select specialty stores.  In fiscal 2004, we opened a second
wholly-owned salon and a training and education center.  In fiscal 2007, we intend to acquire the
remaining equity interest in Bumble and bumble.

Darphin
- - In April 2003, we acquired Laboratoires Darphin, the Paris-based company
dedicated to the development, manufacture and marketing of prestige skin care
and makeup products which are distributed through high-end independent pharmacies
and specialty stores.

Michael
Kors - In May 2003, we entered into a license agreement for
fragrances and beauty products under the “Michael Kors” trademarks and
purchased certain related rights and inventory from another party.  All fragrances including MICHAEL and MICHAEL
for Men, as well as ancillary bath and body products, are sold in department
stores, specialty stores, at freestanding Michael Kors boutiques and over the
Internet.

Rodan +
Fields - In July 2003, we acquired the Rodan + Fields skin
care line launched in 2002 by Stanford University-trained dermatologists Katie
Rodan, M.D. and Kathy Fields, M.D.  The
line offers solutions for specific skin problems, targeting them with
individually packaged and dedicated regimens. 
The line is currently sold in U.S. specialty stores and over the
Internet.

American
Beauty - Launched in 2004, the luxurious makeup and advanced
skin care line celebrates the beauty of American style.  These products, which are sold in the United
States at Kohl’s Department Stores and Kohls.com, have been developed to meet
the needs of the modern American woman, with a straightforward makeup and skin
care appeal.

Flirt! - Launched in 2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s
Department Stores and Kohls.com, this makeup line is all about experimenting
with color, pop culture and trends; “you can Flirt! with the possibilities.”

Good
Skin™ - Launched in
2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and Kohls.com,
this line of skin care products was created with the expertise of a
dermatologist.  This line is color-coded for ease of use.  good skin, easy to choose,
easy to use, doctor formulated for you. ™

Donald
Trump The Fragrance - In September 2004, the Company
announced that it joined forces with Donald Trump in a multi-year deal.  The agreement established Mr. Trump as the
spokesperson for a new men’s fragrance called Donald Trump The Fragrance.

Grassroots
- Introduced in
2005 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s
Department Stores and Kohls.com, Grassroots offers
a range of wholesome, naturally-sourced products to help care for you and your
family.  This line’s seven product
categories include face, body, hair, post-pregnancy, babies, kids and pets.

Sean John
Fragrances - Introduced in 2005, Sean “Diddy” Combs played an
active role in creating a signature scent, “Unforgivable,” that captured a mood
of sexiness and elegance.  That signature
scent and ancillary products are available at selected department and specialty
stores as well as travel retail outlets around the world.

Missoni
- - In 2006, we launched fragrance and ancillary products under our exclusive
global licensing agreement with Milan-based fashion house, Missoni.  Missoni products are sold in select
distribution channels worldwide.


 4 



 


 

Daisy
Fuentes - In early fiscal 2007, we launched Dianoche, the
first fragrance under our license agreement with Daisy Fuentes.  Dianoche holds two scents that connect in a
single bottle and is available exclusively at Kohl’s Department Stores
nationwide or online at Kohls.com.

In addition to the
foregoing brands, we manufacture and sell Kiton and Toni Gard products as a
licensee.  We also have licenses from,
and are developing products to be sold under the Tom Ford brand name.

Distribution

We sell our products
principally through limited distribution channels to complement the images
associated with our brands.  These
channels include more than 20,000 points of sale in over 130 countries and
territories and consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty
retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and
spas.  In addition, our products are sold
in freestanding company-owned stores and spas, our own and authorized retailer
websites, stores on cruise ships, television direct marketing, in-flight and
duty-free shops and certain fragrances are sold in self-select outlets.

We maintain a dedicated
sales force which sells to our retail accounts in North America and in the
major overseas markets, such as Western Europe and Japan.  We have wholly-owned operations in over 35
countries, and controlling interests in joint ventures that operate in four
other countries, through which we market, sell and distribute our
products.  In certain countries, we sell
our products through selected local distributors under contractual arrangements
designed to protect the image and position of the brands.  In addition, we sell certain products in
select domestic and international military locations.  For
information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region,
see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is
incorporated herein by reference.  Our
net sales in the United States in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $3,141.4
million, $3,094.5 million and $2,901.1 million, respectively.  Our long-lived assets in the United States at
June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $452.7 million, $425.5 million and $416.0
million, respectively.

There are risks inherent
in foreign operations, including changes in social, political and economic
conditions.  We are also exposed to risks
associated with changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment
in countries where we have operations as well as, to a lesser extent, changes
in United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and
investment.  In addition, our results of
operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates.  Changes
in such rates also may affect the relative prices at which we and foreign
competitors sell products in the same markets. 
Similarly, the cost of certain items required in our operations may be
affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies.

We principally sell Aveda
products to independent salons and spas, cosmetology schools, third-party
distributors and specialty retailers and directly to consumers at our own
freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and certain Aveda Institutes.  There are currently about 7,000 points of
sale, primarily in the United States, that sell Aveda products.  Bumble and bumble products are principally
sold to more than 2,400 independent salons, primarily in the United
States.  Darphin products are principally
sold through high-end independent pharmacies, principally in Europe,
representing approximately 4,000 points of sale.

As part of our strategy
to diversify our distribution, we have been selectively expanding the number of
single-brand, freestanding stores that we own and operate.  The Origins, Aveda and MžAžC
brands are the primary focus for this method of distribution.  At this time, we operate 467 single-brand,
freestanding stores worldwide, the majority of which are in the United States,
and expect that number to increase moderately over the next several years.

We sell American Beauty,
Flirt!, Good Skin™, Grassroots and our newly developed fragrance, Dianoche, by
Daisy Fuentes in approximately 750 Kohl’s Department Stores in the United
States.

We sell some of our
products directly to consumers over the Internet through our own websites
(Estée Lauder, Clinique, Lab Series, Prescriptives, Origins, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone and Rodan + Fields), and through
Gloss.com (Estée Lauder, Clinique, Lab Series, Prescriptives, Origins, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Jo Malone, Darphin and Rodan + Fields).  Gloss.com is a joint venture in which we own
a controlling majority interest.  Chanel,
Inc. and Clarins (U.S.A.) Inc. became partners in the venture in August 2000
and Chanel and Clarins products are also available on the website.

As is customary in the
cosmetics industry, our practice is to accept returns of our products from
retailers if properly requested, authorized and approved.  In accepting returns, we typically provide a
credit to the retailer against sales and accounts receivable from that retailer
on a dollar-for-dollar basis.  In
recognition of this practice, and in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, we report sales on a net basis, which is computed by
deducting the amount of actual returns received and an amount established for
anticipated returns from gross sales.  As
a percentage of gross sales, returns were 5.0% in fiscal 2006 and 4.6% in
fiscal 2005 and 2004.


 5 



 


Customers

Our strategy has been to
build strong strategic relationships with selected retailers globally.  Senior management works with executives of
our major retail accounts on a regular basis and we believe we are viewed as an
important supplier to these customers.  During
fiscal 2006, Federated Department Stores, Inc. acquired The May Department
Stores Company, resulting in the merger of our previous two largest
customers.  As of and for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2006, this customer accounted for 14% of our accounts receivable
and 16% of our consolidated net sales. 
In fiscal 2005 and 2004, no single customer accounted for more than 10%
of consolidated net sales.

Marketing

Our marketing strategy is
built around our vision statement: “Bringing the Best to Everyone We Touch.”  Mrs. Estée Lauder formulated this marketing
philosophy to provide high-quality service and products as the foundation for a
solid and loyal consumer base.

Our marketing efforts
focus principally on promoting the quality and benefits of our products.  Each of our brands is distinctively positioned,
has a single global image, and is promoted with consistent logos, packaging and
advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it from other
brands.  We regularly advertise our
products on television and radio, in upscale magazines and newspapers and
through direct mail and photo displays at international airports.  In addition, our products receive extensive
editorial coverage in prestige publications and other media worldwide.  Promotional activities and in-store displays
are designed to introduce existing consumers to different products in the line
and to attract new consumers.  Our
marketing efforts also benefit from cooperative advertising programs with
retailers, some of which are supported by coordinated promotions, such as purchase
with purchase and gift with purchase.  At
in-store counters, sales representatives offer personal demonstrations to
market individual products as well as to provide education on basic skin care
and makeup application.  We conduct
extensive sampling programs and we pioneered gift with purchase as a sampling
program.  We believe that the quality and
perceived benefits of sample products have been effective inducements to
purchases by new and existing consumers.

Starting with the launch
of the Clinique website in 1996, we have used the Internet to educate and
inform consumers about certain of our brands. 
Currently, we have seventeen single-brand marketing sites, eleven of
which have e-commerce capabilities, and Gloss.com, our majority-owned,
multi-brand marketing and e-commerce site.

Most of our creative
marketing work is done by in-house creative teams.  The creative staff designs and produces the
sales materials, advertisements and packaging for all products in each brand.  Global net advertising, merchandising,
sampling and promotional expenditures were $1,793.1 million, $1,793.7 million
and $1,595.5 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  These amounts include revenues and expenses
relating to purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions that are
reflected in net sales and cost of sales.

Our marketing and sales
executives spend considerable time in the field meeting with consumers and key
retailers and consulting with sales representatives at the points of sale.  These include Estée Lauder Beauty Advisors,
Clinique Consultants, Aramis Selling Specialists, Prescriptives Analysts,
Origins Guides and MžAžC
Makeup Artists.

Information Systems

Information systems
support business processes including product development, marketing, sales,
order processing, production, distribution and finance.  Of the many systems currently being utilized,
the most significant to our business needs are: (i) a centralized data
repository of essential attributes for each of the products we offer, or plan
to offer, which enables us to globally manufacture and market products of
consistent quality; (ii) a sales analysis system to track weekly sales at the
stock keeping unit (SKU) level at most significant retail sales locations
(i.e., sell-through data), increasing our understanding of consumer preferences
and enabling us to coordinate more effectively our product development,
manufacturing and marketing strategies; (iii) an automated replenishment system
with many of our key domestic customers, allowing us to replenish inventories
for individual points of sale automatically, with minimal paperwork; and (iv)
an inventory management system to provide us with a global view of finished
goods availability relative to actual requirements, facilitating inventory control
and distribution for both existing product lines and new product launches.

The efficiencies provided
by these systems have resulted in increased sales, fewer out-of-stocks and
reduced retail inventories.  We expect
that these systems will continue to provide inventory and sales efficiencies in
the short and medium terms.  As part of
our long-term effort to enhance these efficiencies, we are implementing our
Strategic Modernization Initiative (“SMI”), which includes an enterprise-wide
global program that we expect will deliver a single set of integrated data,
processes and technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize
business processes across brands, operating units and sales affiliates.  The implementation of SMI at our Aveda
operating unit is planned for fiscal 2007. 
SMI is expected to proceed in stages through fiscal 2010.


 6 



 


Research and Development

We believe that we are an
industry leader in the development of new products.  Marketing, product
development and packaging groups work with our research and development group
to identify shifts in consumer preferences, develop new products and redesign
or reformulate existing products.  In addition, research and development
personnel work closely with quality assurance and manufacturing personnel on a
worldwide basis to ensure consistent global standards for our products and to
deliver products with attributes that fulfill consumer expectations.

We maintain ongoing
research and development programs at our facilities in Melville, New York; Oevel,
Belgium; Petersfield, U.K.; Tokyo, Japan; Markham, Ontario; Blaine, Minnesota;
Shanghai, China; and Colombes, France.  As of June 30, 2006, we had
approximately 444 employees engaged in research and development.  Research
and development expenditures, which are included in advertising, merchandising
and sampling expenditures, totaled $72.0 million, $72.3 million and $67.2
million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  Our research and
development group makes significant contributions toward improving existing
products and developing new products and provides ongoing technical assistance
and know-how to our manufacturing activities.  The research and
development group has had long-standing working relationships with several U.S.
and international medical and educational facilities, which supplement internal
capabilities.  We do not conduct animal testing of our products.

Manufacturing, Warehousing and
Raw Materials

We manufacture skin care,
makeup, fragrance and hair care products in the United States, Belgium,
Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Canada and France.  We continue to streamline our manufacturing
processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve innovation, increase
efficiencies and reduce costs.  Our major
manufacturing facilities operate as “focus” plants that primarily manufacture
one type of product (e.g., lipsticks) for all of the principal brands.  Our plants are modern and our manufacturing
processes are substantially automated. 
While we believe that our manufacturing facilities are sufficient to
meet current and reasonably anticipated manufacturing requirements, we continue
to identify opportunities to make significant improvements in capacity and
productivity.  To capitalize on innovation
and other supply benefits, we continue to utilize third parties on a global
basis for finished goods production.

We have established a
global distribution network designed to meet the changing demands of our
customers while maintaining service levels. 
We are continuously evaluating and restructuring this physical
distribution network.  We intend to
establish regional inventory centers strategically positioned throughout the
world in order to facilitate timely delivery of our products to our customers.

The principal raw
materials used in the manufacture of our products are essential oils, alcohol
and specialty chemicals.  We also
purchase packaging components that are manufactured to our design
specifications.  Procurement of materials
for all manufacturing facilities is generally made on a global basis through
our centralized supplier relations department. 
A concentrated effort in supplier rationalization has been made with the
specific objective of reducing costs, increasing innovation and improving quality.  As a result of sourcing initiatives, there is
increased dependency on certain suppliers, but we believe that these suppliers
have adequate resources and facilities to overcome any unforeseen interruption
of supply.  We are continually
benchmarking the performance of the supply chain and will add or delete
suppliers based upon the changing needs of the business.  We have, in the past, been able to obtain an
adequate supply of essential raw materials and currently believe we have
adequate sources of supply for virtually all components of our products.  As we integrate acquired brands, we
continually seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities
to improve manufacturing performance.


 7









 

 

Competition

The skin care, makeup,
fragrance and hair care businesses are characterized by vigorous competition
throughout the world.  Brand recognition,
quality, performance and price have a significant influence on consumers’
choices among competing products and brands. 
Advertising, promotion, merchandising, the pace and timing of new
product introductions, line extensions and the quality of in-store sales staff
also have a significant impact on consumers’ buying decisions.  We compete against a number of manufacturers
and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products, some of
which have substantially greater resources than we do.

Our principal competitors
among manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care
products include:

·                  L’Oreal S.A.,
which markets Lancôme, Ralph Lauren, Giorgio Armani, Garnier, L’Oreal,
Maybelline, Biotherm, Helena Rubinstein, Redken, Matrix, Kiehl’s Since 1851,
Shu Uemura, SkinCeuticals, The Body Shop and other brands;

·                  Unilever N.V.,
which markets Dove, Pond’s, Thermasilk, Vaseline Intensive Care and other
brands;

·                  The Procter & Gamble
Company, which markets SK-II, Cover Girl, Olay, Giorgio Beverly
Hills, Hugo Boss, Rochas, Escada, Lacoste, Max Factor, Pantene, Clairol, Wella,
Valentino, Gucci, Sebastian, Aussie, Dolce & Gabbana and other brands;

·                  Beiersdorf AG,
which markets Nivea, Eucerin, La Prairie, Juvena and other brands;

·                  Avon Products Inc.,
a direct marketer of Avon Color, Anew, Skin-so-soft, mark, Avon Wellness,
beComing, and other products;

·                  Shiseido Company, Ltd.,
which markets Shiseido, Clé de Peau Beauté, Zirh, Nars, Decléor, Issey Miyake,
Jean Paul Gaultier, Helene Curtis, Za, Carita, Aupres and other brands;

·                  LVMH Moët Hennessey Louis
Vuitton (“LVMH”), which markets Christian Dior, Kenzo, Givenchy,
Guerlain, Benefit, Make Up For Ever, Fresh, Aqua di Parma and other brands;

·                  Coty, Inc.,
which markets Lancaster, Davidoff, Isabella Rossellini, Rimmel, Astor, Adidas,
The Healing Garden, Chopard, Jennifer Lopez, Kenneth Cole, Marc Jacobs, Sarah
Jessica Parker, David and Victoria Beckham, Stetson, Calvin Klein, Cerruti,
Vera Wang and other brands;

·                  Revlon, Inc.,
which markets Revlon, Almay, Ultima II and other brands;

·                  Chanel, Inc.;

·                  Clarins S.A.,
which markets Clarins, Azzaro, Thierry Mugler and other brands;

·                  Elizabeth Arden, Inc.,
which markets Elizabeth Arden, Elizabeth Taylor fragrances, Geoffrey Beene,
Halston, Britney Spears, Prevage, Badgley Mischka, Alfred Sung, Hummer, Nanette
Lepore, Cynthia Rowley, Lulu Guinness, Bob Mackie and other brands; and

·                  Kao Corporation, which markets Sofina, Sensai, Kanebo,
Molton Brown, Twany, Lissage, est, RMK, Lunasol, Biore, Jergens, John Frieda
and other brands.

We also face competition
from a number of independent doctor-aligned brands, such as N.V. Perricone
M.D., dr. brandt, Murad, Prevage MD, DDF, MD Skincare, Cosmedicine, StriVectin,
Kinerase and Obagi.

Additionally, some
retailers have developed their own beauty brands, such as:

·                  Gap Inc., which
markets The Gap, Old Navy and Banana Republic products;

·                  Limited Brands Inc.,
which markets Victoria’s Secret Beauty and Bath and Body Works; and

·                  Sephora.

Some of our competitors
also have ownership interests in retailers that are customers of ours.  For example, LVMH has interests in DFS Group
Limited, Miami Cruiseline Services, Le Bon Marché, la Samaritaine, eLuxury, and
Sephora.

Trademarks, Patents and
Copyrights

The trademarks used in
our business include the brand names Estée Lauder, Clinique, Aramis,
Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New York, DKNY,
MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Michael Kors
and Rodan + Fields, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™ and Grassroots and the
names of many of the products sold under these brands.  We own the material trademark rights used in
connection with the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of most of our
major products both in the United States and in the other principal countries
where such products are sold.  We are the
exclusive worldwide licensee for fragrances, cosmetics and related products for
Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New York, DKNY, Michael Kors, Donald Trump, Sean
John, Missoni and Daisy Fuentes. 
Origins, pursuant to a license agreement, sells products using the name
of Dr. Andrew Weil and Estée Lauder, pursuant to a license agreement, sells
products using the name Tom Ford for Estée Lauder.  We are in the process of developing new
products under a license from Tom Ford. 
We protect our trademarks for our principal products in the United
States and significant markets worldwide. 
We consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our
business.

A number of our products
incorporate patented or patent-pending technology in formulations or packaging.  In addition, several products are covered by
design patents, patent applications or copyrights.  While we consider these patents and
copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be important, no single patent or
copyright is considered material to the conduct of our business.


 8 



 


Employees

At June 30, 2006, we had
approximately 26,200 full-time employees worldwide (including sales
representatives at points of sale who are employed by us), of whom
approximately 11,700 are employed in the United States and Canada.  None of our employees in the United States is
covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 
In certain other countries, a limited number of employees are covered by
a works council agreement or other syndicate arrangements.  We believe that relations with our employees
are good.  We have never encountered a
material strike or work stoppage in the United States or in any other country
where we have a significant number of employees.

Government Regulation

We and our products are
subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade
Commission in the United States, as well as by various other Federal, state,
local and international regulatory authorities and the regulatory authorities
in the countries in which our products are produced or sold.  Such regulations principally relate to the
ingredients, labeling, packaging and marketing of our products.  We believe that we are in substantial
compliance with such regulations, as well as with applicable Federal, state,
local and international and other countries’ rules and regulations governing
the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment.  There are no significant capital expenditures
for environmental control matters either planned in the current year or expected
in the near future.  Along with other
unrelated parties, we have been named as a potentially responsible party by the
Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York with regard to a
landfill in Long Island, New York.  See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”

Seasonality

Our results of operations
in total, by region and by product category, are subject to seasonal
fluctuations, with net sales in the first half of the fiscal year typically
being slightly higher than in the second half of the fiscal year.  The higher net sales in the first two fiscal
quarters are attributable to the increased levels of purchasing by retailers
for the holiday selling season and for fall fashion makeup introductions.  Fluctuations in net sales and operating
income in total and by geographic region and product category in any fiscal
quarter may be attributable to the level and scope of new product
introductions.  Additionally, gross
margins and operating expenses are impacted on a quarter-by-quarter basis by
variations in our launch calendar and the timing of promotions, including
purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.

Availability of Reports

We make available
financial information, news releases and other information on our website at
www.elcompanies.com.  There is a direct
link from the website to our Securities and Exchange Commission filings via the
EDGAR database, where our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we
file such reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Stockholders may
also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153
or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.

Corporate Governance Guidelines
and Code of Conduct

The Board of Directors
has developed corporate governance practices to help it fulfill its
responsibilities to stockholders in providing general direction and oversight
of management.  These practices are set forth in our Corporate Governance
Guidelines.  We also have a Code of Conduct (“Code”) applicable to all
employees, officers and directors of the Company, including, without
limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other
senior financial officers.  These documents, the charters for the Audit
Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Board Affairs Committee,
and any waiver of a provision of the Code granted to any senior officer or
director or material amendment to the Code, if any, may be found in the “Investors”
section of our website: www.elcompanies.com under the heading “Corporate
Governance.”  Stockholders may also
contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 or
call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these documents without charge.


 9 



 


Executive Officers

The following table sets
forth certain information with respect to our executive officers:


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Position(s) Held
  
 
 
  
  Malcolm Bond
  
  
   
  
  
  56
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President – Global Operations
  
 
 
  
  Patrick
  Bousquet-Chavanne
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
  
  Group President
  
 
 
  
  Daniel J. Brestle
  
  
   
  
  
  61
  
  
   
  
  
  Chief Operating Officer
  
 
 
  
  Roger Caracappa
  
  
   
  
  
  57
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President Global Packaging, Quality Assurance, Store Development, Design and
  Merchandising
  
 
 
  
  John Demsey
  
  
   
  
  
  50
  
  
   
  
  
  Group President
  
 
 
  
  Amy DiGeso
  
  
   
  
  
  54
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President – Global Human Resources
  
 
 
  
  Harvey Gedeon
  
  
   
  
  
  63
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President – Research and Development
  
 
 
  
  Richard W. Kunes
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President and Chief Financial Officer
  
 
 
  
  Evelyn H. Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  70
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Corporate Vice
  President
  
 
 
  
  Leonard A. Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  73
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman of the Board
  of Directors
  
 
 
  
  Ronald S. Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  62
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman of Clinique
  Laboratories, LLC and a Director
  
 
 
  
  William P. Lauder
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  President and Chief
  Executive Officer and a Director
  
 
 
  
  Sara E. Moss
  
  
   
  
  
  59
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President
  – General Counsel and Secretary
  
 
 
  
  Cedric Prouvé
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  Group President
  
 
 
  
  Philip Shearer
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  Group President
  
 
 
  
  Sally Susman
  
  
   
  
  
  44
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice President, Global Communications
  
 


 

Malcolm
Bond became Executive Vice President – Global Operations in
July 2004.  In this role, he is currently
responsible for Global Direct Procurement, Manufacturing, Logistics and
Employee Health and Safety.  From January
2001 through June 2004, Mr. Bond was Senior Vice President – Global
Manufacturing and Distribution.  From
January 1999 to January 2001, he was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing,
during which time his responsibilities also included corporate engineering and
supply chain.  From September 1997 to
January 1999, he was Vice President, Focus Factories, responsible for all of
our factory operations.  Mr. Bond joined
us in September 1995 as General Manager of our U.K. manufacturing operations,
with responsibility for South African and Australian operations as well.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Bond was responsible
for European Operations at the Alberto-Culver Company and, prior to that, was
Vice President, Operations for Europe, Middle East and Africa for Revlon, Inc.
from April 1979 until October 1992.

Patrick
Bousquet-Chavanne became Group President, The Estée Lauder
Companies Inc., in July 2001.  Since
January 2005, he has been directing the Aramis and Designer Fragrances division
– including Aramis, Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, Michael Kors and Donald Trump
The Fragrance, as well as  Bobbi Brown,
Darphin, Rodan + Fields and the Fashion Group. 
From 2001 to 2004, he directed Estée Lauder, M·A·C and the Aramis and
Designer Fragrances Division.  From 1998
to 2001, he was the President of Estee Lauder International, Inc. (“ELII”).  From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Bousquet-Chavanne was
Senior Vice President – General Manager/Travel Retailing of ELII.  From 1989 to 1992, he was Vice President and
General Manager of Aramis International, a division of ELII.  From 1996 to 1998, he was Executive Vice
President/General Manager International Operations of Parfums Christian Dior
S.A., based in Paris.  Mr.
Bousquet-Chavanne is a director of Brown-Forman Corporation.

Daniel J.
Brestle was appointed Chief Operating Officer, The Estée
Lauder Companies Inc., in January 2005. 
In this role, he is responsible for our Global Operations and Research
and Development worldwide, and oversees the Estée Lauder, Jo Malone, La Mer,
M·A·C  and Prescriptives brands, and our
BeautyBank division.  Since July 2001,
Mr. Brestle had been Group President, The Estée Lauder Companies Inc., with
global responsibility for our specialty brands, including Aveda, Bobbi Brown,
Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Jo Malone, La Mer, Prescriptives, Rodan + Fields
and Stila.  He also oversaw the launch of
BeautyBank and its first four brands, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™ and
Grassroots, which are sold exclusively by Kohl’s in the United States.  From July 1998 through June 2001, he was
President of Estée Lauder (USA & Canada). 
Prior to July 1998, he was President of Clinique Laboratories, Inc. and
had been the senior officer of that division since 1992.  From 1988 through 1992, he was President of
Prescriptives U.S.A.  Mr. Brestle joined
us in 1978.  He is a director of
Abercrombie & Fitch Co.

Roger
Caracappa has been Executive Vice President – Global
Packaging, Quality Assurance, Store Development, Design and Merchandising since
July 2004.  From 1999 to 2004, he was
Senior Vice President, Global Packaging for all brands.  For 20 years, Mr. Caracappa spearheaded all
promotional marketing for the Estée Lauder brand in North America as well as
marketing operations and merchandising. 
He is a member of various committees at the Fashion Institute of
Technology and is a member of the Packaging and Converting Intelligence
Editorial Board and Cosmetic Industry Buyers and Suppliers.


 10 



 


John
Demsey was appointed Group President in July 2006.  In this role, he is responsible for the Estée
Lauder, M×A×C, Sean John,
Prescriptives and Tom Ford Beauty brands. 
In January 2005, Mr. Demsey became Global Brand President of Estée
Lauder after serving as President and Managing Director of M×A×C
since 1998.  From 1991 to 1998, he held
several positions with Estée Lauder, including Senior Vice President of Sales
and Education for Estée Lauder USA and Canada. 
Before joining us, he worked for Revlon, Borghese, Alexandra de Markoff
Cosmetics, and Lancaster Cosmetics.  He
also held various executive retail positions at Bloomingdale’s, Macy’s,
Benetton and Saks Fifth Avenue.  Mr.
Demsey serves as Chairman of the M×A×C
AIDS Fund and is active in many other AIDS-related organizations.

Amy DiGeso became Executive Vice President,
Global Human Resources in May 2006.  From May 2005, when she joined us, to
May 2006 she was Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources.  She was Senior Partner –
Global Human Resource in charge of the Human Resources Department at
PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP from May 2001 through June 2003.  From April
1999 through April 2001, Ms. DiGeso was President of the Popular Club Plan, a
direct sales subsidiary of Federated Department Stores, and from May 1992
through December 1998, she served in various executive capacities at Mary Kay,
Inc., including Chief Executive Officer from November 1996 through December
1998.  Since June 2003, Ms. DiGeso has been engaged in various
philanthropic activities.

Harvey Gedeon became Executive Vice President,
Research and Development in July 2004. 
From January 2000 to July 2004, he was Senior Vice President –
Research and Development.  Prior to
joining us in January 2000, Mr. Gedeon was Executive Vice President and General
Manager, Research and Development and Quality Assurance for Revlon, Inc. from
1997 through 1999.

Richard
W. Kunes became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer in November 2004.  Prior thereto,
he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October
2000.  He joined us in 1986 and served in
various finance-related positions until November 1993, when he was named Vice
President – Operations Finance Worldwide. 
From January 1998 through September 2000, Mr. Kunes was Vice President –
Financial Administration and Corporate Controller.  Prior to joining us, he held finance and
controller positions at the Colgate-Palmolive Company.  Mr. Kunes is on the Board of Directors of Make-a-Wish
Foundation of Suffolk County, NY, Inc.

Evelyn H.
Lauder has been Senior Corporate Vice President since 1989,
and previously served as Vice President and in other executive capacities since
first joining us in 1959 as Education Director. 
She is a member of the Board of Overseers, Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center, a member of the Boards of Trustees of Central Park Conservancy,
Inc. and The Trinity School in New York City (Trustee Emirata), a member of the
Board of Directors of New Yorkers for Parks, an Honorary Board Member of Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratories and the Founder and Chairman of The Breast Cancer
Research Foundation.

Leonard
A. Lauder has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since
1995.  He served as our Chief Executive
Officer from 1982 through 1999 and President from 1972 until 1995.  Mr. Lauder formally joined us in 1958 after
serving as an officer in the United States Navy.  Since joining, he has held various positions,
including executive officer positions other than those described above.  He is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of
the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee of the University of
Pennsylvania and a Trustee of The Aspen Institute.  He also served as a member of the White House
Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.

Ronald S.
Lauder has served as Chairman of Clinique Laboratories, Inc.
since returning from government service in 1987.  He was Chairman of Estee Lauder
International, Inc. from 1987 through 2002. 
Mr. Lauder joined us in 1964 and has held various positions, including
those described above, since then.  From
1983 to 1986, Mr. Lauder was Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for European
and NATO Affairs.  From 1986 to 1987, he
served as U.S. Ambassador to Austria.  He
is non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Central European Media
Enterprises Ltd.  He is also Chairman of
the Board of Trustees of the Museum of Modern Art.

William
P. Lauder became President and Chief Executive Officer in
July 2004.  From January 2003 through
June 2004, he served as Chief Operating Officer.  From July 2001 until December 2002 he served
as Group President responsible for the worldwide business of Clinique and
Origins and our retail store and On-line operations.  From 1998 to 2001, he was President of
Clinique Laboratories, Inc.  Prior to 1998,
he was President of Origins Natural Resources Inc. and had been the senior
officer of that division since its inception in 1990.  Prior thereto, he served in various positions
since joining us in 1986.  He is a member
of the Board of Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania and The Trinity
School in New York City and the Boards of Directors of The Fresh Air Fund, the
92nd Street Y, the Partnership for New York City,
True Temper Corporation, Freedom Acquisition Holdings, Inc. and the Advisory
Board of Zelnick Media.


 11 



 


Sara E.
Moss became Executive Vice President in November 2004.  She joined us as
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in September 2003.  She was Senior Vice President and General
Counsel of Pitney Bowes Inc. from 1996 to February 2003, and Senior Litigation
Partner for Howard, Smith & Levin (now part of Covington & Burling) in
New York from 1984 to 1996.  Prior to
1984, Ms. Moss served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Criminal
Division in the Southern District of New York, was an associate at the law firm
of Davis, Polk & Wardwell and was Law Clerk to the Honorable Constance
Baker Motley, a U.S. District Judge in the Southern District of New York.

Cedric
Prouvé became Group President in January 2003.  He is responsible for sales and profits in
all markets outside of North America and for all of the activities of our sales
affiliates and distributor relationships worldwide.  He also oversees our Travel Retail business.  From August 2000 through 2002 he was the
General Manager of our Japanese sales affiliate.  From January 1997 to August 2000, he was Vice
President, General Manager, Travel Retail. 
He started with us in 1994 as General Manager, Travel Retailing – Asia
Pacific Region and was given the added responsibility of General Manager of our
Singapore affiliate in 1995.  Prior to
joining us he worked at L’Oreal in sales and management positions in the
Americas and Asia/Pacific.

Philip
Shearer became Group President responsible for Clinique,
Origins and our On-line operations in January 2003.  In 2005, Mr. Shearer became responsible for
Aveda and Bumble and bumble.  He joined
us as Group President, International in September 2001.  Prior thereto, from 1998 to 2001, he was
President of the Luxury Products Division of L’Oreal U.S.A., which included
Lancôme, Helena Rubinstein, Ralph Lauren fragrances, Giorgio Armani and Kiehl’s
Since 1851.  He served in various
positions at L’Oreal from 1987, including management positions in the United
Kingdom and in Japan.

Sally
Susman became Executive Vice President in December 2004.  Prior thereto, she was Senior Vice President –
Global Communications since September 2000 and remains responsible for all
media relations, internal communications and consumer relations for the Company
and its brands.  Prior to joining us, Ms.
Susman held several high-level communications and government relations
positions at American Express Company from 1990 to 1993 and 1995 to 2000.  From 1993
to 1995, she was the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the
U.S. Department of Commerce.  Ms.
Susman is a Commissioner on the New York City Commission on Women’s Issues and
is a member of the Boards of Directors of Parsons School of Design and The
National Partnership for Women and Families and is a Trustee of Connecticut
College.  Ms. Susman is a trustee of
Equity Office Properties Trust.

Each executive officer
serves for a one-year term ending at the next annual meeting of the Board of
Directors, subject to his or her applicable employment agreement and his or her
earlier death, resignation or removal.

Item
1A.  Risk Factors.

There are risks
associated with an investment in our securities.

Please consider the
following risks and all of the other information in this annual report on Form
10-K and in our subsequent filings with the SEC.  Our business may also be adversely affected
by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently
believe to be immaterial.  If any of the
events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur or other
risks arise or develop, our business, prospects, financial condition and
results of operations, as well as the prices of our securities, may be
adversely affected.

The beauty business is highly competitive, and if we are
unable to compete effectively our results will suffer.

We face vigorous
competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational
consumer product companies.  Some of these competitors have greater
resources than we do and may be able to respond to changing business and
economic conditions more quickly than us.  Competition in the beauty
business is based on pricing of products, innovation, perceived value, service
to the consumer, promotional activities, advertising, special events, new
product introductions, electronic commerce initiatives and other
activities.  It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our
competitors’ actions in these areas.  Also, the trend toward consolidation
in the retail trade, particularly in developed markets such as the United
States and Western Europe, has resulted in us becoming increasingly dependent
on key retailers, including large-format retailers, who have increased their
bargaining strength.  This trend has also
resulted in an increased risk related to the concentration of our
customers.  A severe adverse impact on
their business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on
us.  Our ability to compete also depends on the continued strength of our
brands, our ability to attract and retain key talent and other personnel, the
efficiency of our manufacturing facilities and distribution network, and our
ability to protect our intellectual property.  Our inability to continue
to compete effectively in countries around the world could have an adverse
impact on our business.

 


 12









 

Our inability to anticipate and respond to market trends and
changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our financial results.

Our continued success
depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and
cost-effective manner to changes in consumer tastes for skin care, makeup,
fragrance and hair care products as well as to where and how consumers shop for
those products.  We must continually work to develop, produce and market
new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, achieve a
favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and where we
market and sell our products.  While we devote considerable effort and
resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, we recognize
that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can change
rapidly.  If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the
market for cosmetics products and changing consumer demands, our financial
results will suffer.

Our
future success depends on our ability to achieve our long-term strategy.

Our long-term strategy is
based on five strategic imperatives:

1.               Optimize brand
portfolio

2.               Strengthen product
categories

3.               Strengthen and
expand geographic presence

4.               Diversify and
strengthen distribution channels

5.               Achieve operational
and cost excellence

Achieving our long-term
objectives may require investment in new brands, categories, distribution
channels, technologies and geographic markets. 
These investments may results in short-term costs without any current
revenues.  In addition, there may be
costs incurred in disposing of brands. 
Although we believe that our strategic imperatives will lead to growth
in revenue and profitability, we may not realize in full, or in part, the
anticipated benefits.  The failure to
realize benefits, which may be due to our ability to execute plans or other
risks described in this 10-K, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and operating results.

Any future
acquisitions may expose us to additional risks.

We continuously review
acquisition opportunities that would expand our current product offerings, our
distribution channels, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations
or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities.  The financing for any of these acquisitions
could result in an increase in our indebtedness, dilute the interests of our
stockholders or both.  Acquisitions may entail
numerous risks, including:

·                  difficulties
in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key
employees from or customers of acquired businesses;

·                  diversion
of management’s attention from our core businesses;

·                  adverse
effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and

·                  risks
of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience.

Our failure to
successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating
results.  In addition, there can be no
assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or
consummate acquisitions on favorable terms.

A general economic downturn or sudden disruption in business
conditions may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could
adversely affect our financial results.

The general level of
consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including general
economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, and consumer
confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control.  Consumer
purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods,
when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products.  In
addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions, for example, as a
consequence of events such as the outbreak of SARs in 2003 or those that are
currently taking place in the Middle East, or as a result of a terrorist
attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation, or as a
result of adverse weather conditions, such as Hurricane Katrina, can have a
short and, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending.

Events that impact
consumers’ willingness or ability to travel and/or purchase our products while
traveling may impact our travel retail business, which is a significant
contributor to our overall results.

A downturn in the
economies in which we sell our products or a sudden disruption of business
conditions in those economies could adversely affect our sales.


 13 



 


Changes in laws, regulations and policies that affect our
business could adversely affect our financial results.

Our business is subject
to numerous laws, regulations and policies.  Changes in the laws,
regulations and policies, including the interpretation or enforcement thereof,
that affect, or will affect, our business, including changes in accounting
standards, tax laws and regulations, trade rules and customs regulations, and
the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we
may take as a result could adversely affect our financial results.

Our success depends, in part, on
the quality and safety of our products.

Our success depends, in part, on the quality and
safety of our products.  If our products
are found to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our
consumers’ standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could
suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we
could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could
result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

Our success depends, in part, on
our key personnel.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain
our key personnel, including our executive officers and senior management
team.  The unexpected loss of one or more
of our key employees could adversely affect our business.  Our success also depends, in part, on our
continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified
personnel.  Competition for these
employees can be intense.  We may not be
able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and
our failure to do so could adversely affect our business.  This risk may be exacerbated by uncertainties
associated with our long-term strategy, SMI (as defined below) and other
initiatives.

We are subject to risks related
to our international operations.

We operate on a global
basis, with approximately 51% of our fiscal 2006 net sales generated outside
the United States.  We maintain offices in over 35 countries and have key
operational facilities located outside the United States that manufacture,
warehouse or distribute goods for sale throughout the world.  Foreign
operations are subject to many risks and uncertainties, including but not
limited to:

·                     fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates, which can affect our results of operations;
the value of our foreign assets; the relative prices at which we and foreign
competitors sell products in the same markets; and the cost of certain
inventory and non-inventory items required in our operations;

·                     changes in
foreign laws, regulations and policies, including restrictions on trade, import
and export license requirements, and tariffs and taxes, as well as changes in
United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment;
and

·                     adverse
weather conditions, social and geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist
attacks, war or other military action.

These risks could have a
material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and
financial condition.

A disruption in operations could adversely affect our
business and financial results.

As a company engaged in
manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent
in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events,
strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in logistics or information
systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality
control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as
natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no
control.  If such an event were to occur, it could have an adverse affect
on our business and financial results.

Our
information systems and websites may be susceptible to outages and other risks.

We have information
systems that support our business processes, including product development,
marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and
intracompany communications throughout the world.  We have e-commerce and other Internet
websites in the United States and many other countries.  These systems may be susceptible to outages
due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and
similar events.  Despite the
implementation of network security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to
computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized
tampering.  The occurrence of these or
other events could disrupt or damage our information systems and adversely
affect our business and results of operations.


 14 



 


We
are subject to risks associated with implementing global information systems.

As part of a program that
we call our “Strategic Modernization Initiative,” or “SMI,” we are implementing
enterprise-wide global programs intended to deliver a single set of integrated
data, processes and technologies, which would be scalable and used to
standardize business processes across brands, operating units and sales
affiliates.  The implementation of SMI at
our Aveda operating unit is planned for fiscal 2007.  The full implementation of SMI is not
expected until 2010.  Failure to
implement SMI as planned, in terms of timing, specifications and/or costs,
could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

The
price of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of
analysts’ or others’ predictions of our earnings or other financial
performance.

Our business planning
process is designed to maximize the long-term strength, growth and
profitability of the Company, not to achieve an earnings target in any
particular fiscal quarter.  We believe
that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our
stockholders.  However, we do recognize
that it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to what we think
will be our future net sales and earnings. 
Accordingly, when we announced our year-end financial results for fiscal
2006, we provided guidance as to our expected net sales and earnings for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2007 and the quarter ending September 30,
2006.  While we generally expect to
provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter,
we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at
such times or otherwise.

In all of our public
statements when we make, or update, a forward-looking statement about our sales
and/or earnings expectations, we accompany such statements directly, or by
reference to a public document, with a list of factors that could cause our
actual results to differ materially from those we expect.  Such a list is included, among other places,
in our earnings press release and in our periodic filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (e.g., in our reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q).  These and other factors make it more
difficult for outside observers, such as research analysts, to predict what our
earnings will be in any given fiscal quarter or year.

Outside analysts, like
all investors, have the right to make their own predictions as to what the
Company’s financial results will be in a given fiscal year or quarter or even
in future years.  Outside analysts,
however, have access to no more material information about the Company’s plans
than any other public investor, and the Company does not endorse their
predictions as to our future performance. 
Nor does the Company assume any responsibility to correct the
predictions of outside analysts or others when they differ from the Company’s
own internal expectations.  When the
Company announces actual results that differ from those that outside analysts
or others have been predicting, the market price of the Company’s securities
could be affected.  Investors who rely on
the predictions of outside analysts or others when making investment decisions
with respect to the Company’s securities do so at their own risk.  The Company takes no responsibility for any
losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of the Company’s
securities.

Item 1B