Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
 
Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries.
 
PART I
 
Item 1.  Business.
 
The Estée Lauder Companies Inc., founded in 1946 by Estée and Joseph Lauder, is one of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  Our products are sold in over 150 countries and territories under a number of well-known brand names including: Estée Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Origins, MžAžC, Bobbi Brown, La Mer and Aveda.  We are also the global licensee for fragrances and/or cosmetics sold under brand names such as Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, Michael Kors, Tom Ford and Coach.  Each brand is distinctly positioned within the market for cosmetics and other beauty products.
 
We are a pioneer in the cosmetics industry and believe we are a leader in the industry due to the global recognition of our brand names, our leadership in product innovation, our strong market position in key geographic markets and the consistently high quality of our products and “High-Touch” services.  We sell our prestige products principally through limited distribution channels to complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels, encompassing over 30,000 points of sale, consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and spas.  In addition, our products are sold in freestanding stores, our own and authorized retailer websites, stores on cruise ships, in-flight, and duty-free shops, as well as by direct response television (“DRTV”), and certain fragrances are sold in self-select outlets.  We believe that our strategy of pursuing selective distribution strengthens our relationships with retailers, enables our brands to be among the best selling product lines at the stores and heightens the aspirational quality of our brands.
 
For a discussion of recent developments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Overview.”
 
For segment and geographical area financial information, see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 19 – Segment Data and Related Information.”
 
We have been controlled by the Lauder family since the founding of our Company.  Members of the Lauder family, some of whom are directors, executive officers and/or employees, beneficially own, directly or indirectly, as of August 19, 2013, shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock having 86% of the outstanding voting power of the Common Stock.
 
Products
 
Skin Care - Our broad range of skin care products addresses various skin care needs for women and men.  These products include moisturizers, repair serums, cleansers, toners, body care, exfoliators, acne and oil correctors and sun care products, a number of which are developed for use on particular areas of the body, such as the face or the hands or around the eyes.  Skin care products accounted for approximately 44% of our net sales in fiscal 2013.
 
Makeup - We manufacture, market and sell a full array of makeup products, including those for the face, eyes, lips and nails.  Many of the products are offered in an extensive array of shades and colors.  We also sell related items such as compacts, brushes and other makeup tools.  Makeup products accounted for approximately 38% of our net sales in fiscal 2013.
 
Fragrance - We offer a variety of fragrance products for women and men.  The fragrances are sold in various forms, including eau de parfum sprays and colognes, as well as lotions, powders, creams, candles and soaps that are based on a particular fragrance.  Fragrance products accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2013.
 
- 2 -






Table of Contents
 
Hair Care - Hair care products are offered mainly in prestige salons and in freestanding stores as well as some department stores and specialty retailers, and include hair color and styling products, shampoos, conditioners, treatment and finishing sprays.  In fiscal 2013, hair care products accounted for approximately 5% of our net sales.
 
Other - We also sell ancillary products and services that accounted for less than 1% of our net sales in fiscal 2013.
 
Given the personal nature of our products and the wide array of consumer preferences and tastes, as well as competition for the attention of consumers, our strategy has been to market and promote our products through distinctive brands seeking to address broad preferences and tastes.  Each brand has a single global image that is promoted with consistent logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it from other brands.
 
Estée Lauder - Estée Lauder brand products, which have been sold since 1946, are technologically advanced, high performance products with a reputation for innovation, style, glamour and superior quality.  Used by women around the world, the broad product line principally consists of skin care, makeup, and fragrance products that are presented in high quality, aspirational packaging.
 
Aramis and Designer Fragrances - Our Aramis and Designer Fragrances division creates, markets and distributes fragrance and skin care products, including the following brand names:
 
·                  Aramis - We pioneered the marketing of prestige men’s fragrance, grooming and skin care products with the introduction of Aramis products in 1964.
·                  Lab Series - Lab Series Skincare for Men, introduced in 1987, is a full range of products for cleansing, shaving, treatment and body that is especially formulated to address the unique needs of men’s skin.
·                  Tommy Hilfiger - We have an exclusive global license arrangement for a line of men’s and women’s fragrances and cosmetics under the Tommy Hilfiger brand name.  We launched the line in 1995 with a men’s fragrance, tommy.  Today, we manufacture and sell a variety of fragrances and ancillary products for men and women.
·                  Donna Karan Cosmetics - In 1997, we obtained the exclusive global license for a line of fragrances and other cosmetics under the Donna Karan New York and DKNY brand names, including certain products that were originally sold by The Donna Karan Company.  Under this license, fragrances have been expanded to include extensive lines of companion bath and body products.
·                  Michael Kors - In 2003, we entered into an exclusive global license agreement for fragrances and beauty products under the Michael Kors brand name.  The fragrances, as well as ancillary bath and body products, are sold primarily in department stores, specialty stores and freestanding Michael Kors boutiques.
·                  Coach - In 2006, we began creating fragrances and related products for Coach which were sold exclusively in Coach stores.  In 2010, we converted the arrangement to a license.  The collection is primarily available in department stores, Coach stores in the United States, retail stores in Asia/Pacific and online at coach.com.
·                  Ermenegildo Zegna - In 2011, we entered into an exclusive global license arrangement for fragrance and beauty products under the Ermenegildo Zegna brand name.  We transitioned the five existing fragrances into our portfolio and sell them in markets across Asia/Pacific, Europe and North America, as well as Ermenegildo Zegna boutiques worldwide.
 
Clinique - Introduced in 1968, Clinique skin care and makeup products are all allergy tested and 100% fragrance free and have been designed to address individual skin types and needs.  The products are based on the research and related expertise of leading dermatologists.  Clinique skin care products are generally marketed as part of the 3-Step System: Cleanse, Exfoliate, Moisturize.  Other Clinique skin care products include de-aging solutions to help prevent, halt and diminish the visible effects of sun, wind, stress and pollution and assist in repair to help visibly restore, contour and minimize the look of lines and wrinkles.  Clinique also offers lines of fragrances.
 
Origins - Introduced in 1990, Origins seeks to create high-performance natural skin care products that are “powered by nature and proven by science.”  Origins also sells makeup, fragrance and hair care products, and has a license agreement to develop and sell products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil.
 
MžAžC - Make-up Art Cosmetics, a leading professional makeup brand, was founded in Toronto, Canada in 1984.  We completed our acquisition of MžAžC in 1998.  The brand’s popularity has grown through the endorsement of makeup artists and influencers, accelerated by its social-digital leadership.  Its products comprise a broad line of professional color cosmetics targeting makeup artists and an extremely diverse base of trend-conscious consumers.
 
- 3 -






Table of Contents
 
Bobbi Brown - Acquired in 1995, Bobbi Brown is an exclusive beauty line developed by celebrated makeup artist Bobbi Brown with a focus on service and teaching women to be their own makeup artists.  The Bobbi Brown line includes color cosmetics, skin care, professional makeup brushes and tools, accessories and fragrances.
 
La Mer - Acquired in 1995, La Mer products primarily consist of high-end moisturizing creams, lotions, serums and other skin care products.  The line, which is available in very limited distribution in the United States and many other countries, is an extension of the initial Crème de la Mer product.
 
Aveda - We acquired the Aveda business in 1997 and since then have acquired select Aveda distributors and retail stores.  Aveda creates high performance, botanically-based products for beauty professionals and consumers while continuously striving to conduct business in an environmentally sustainable manner.  Aveda manufactures innovative plant-based hair care, skin care, makeup and lifestyle products.
 
Jo Malone - We acquired London-based Jo Malone Limited in 1999.  Jo Malone is known for its unique fragrance portfolio and luxury products for the bath, body and home.
 
Bumble and bumble - We acquired our initial interest in Bumble and bumble in 2000 and fully acquired the brand in 2006.  The New York-based hair care company creates high-quality hair care and styling products distributed through top-tier salons and select prestige retailers.  Products are stylist- and salon-tested and found backstage at fashion shows, photo shoots, on television and film sets.
 
Darphin - In 2003, we acquired Laboratoires Darphin, the Paris-based company dedicated to the development, manufacture and marketing of prestige skin care products which are distributed primarily through high-end independent pharmacies and specialty stores.
 
BeautyBank - BeautyBank is the entrepreneurial think tank of the Company.  BeautyBank is dedicated to the ideation, development and incubation of innovative new brand concepts for the Company globally.  Brands developed and marketed under the BeautyBank umbrella include:
 
·                  FLIRT! -  Established in 2004, FLIRT! is a color-oriented makeup line that allows consumers to be their prettiest and freedom to be their flirtiest.
·                  GoodSkin Labs - Established in 2007, this line of skin care products was created with the expertise of a dermatologist and is sold in a number of countries around the world.
·                  Osiao - Launched in Fall 2012, Osiao is a new brand developed in Asia for the unique needs of Asian skin, inspired by the deep ancestral learning of Traditional Chinese Medicine and the advanced science of modern dermatology.  Through a proprietary diagnostic method, a customized treatment plan is designed to unlock an individual’s unique pathway to radiant skin.
 
Tom Ford Beauty - In 2005, we entered into a license agreement to develop and distribute fragrances and other beauty products under the Tom Ford brand name.  In 2006, we introduced Tom Ford Black Orchid, the brand’s first signature fragrance.  In 2011, we introduced a full-range luxury cosmetics line.
 
Ojon - In 2007, we acquired Ojon Corporation, a company that was based in Canada.  Ojon markets naturally-derived, wildcrafted hair and skin care products using ingredients found in the world’s rainforests.
 
Smashbox - Founded in 1996 and acquired in 2010, Smashbox Cosmetics is a Los Angeles-based, photo studio-inspired makeup brand with products intended to help consumers create gorgeous looks whether at a photo shoot or in everyday life.
 
In addition, we manufacture and sell products under the Prescriptives, American Beauty and grassroots research labs brands.  We also develop and sell products under a license from Kiton and hold licenses to develop and sell fragrances and other beauty products for the Tory Burch, Marni and Aerin brands.
 
Our heritage brands are Estée Lauder, Aramis and Designer Fragrances, Clinique and Origins.  MžAžC and Bobbi Brown are our makeup artist brands and our luxury brands are La Mer, Jo Malone and Tom Ford Beauty.
 
- 4 -






Table of Contents
 
Distribution
 
We sell our products primarily through limited distribution channels to complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels include more than 30,000 points of sale in over 150 countries and territories and consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and spas.  In addition, our products are sold in Company and distributor-operated freestanding stores and other freestanding retail formats (e.g., pop-up stores), our own and authorized retailer websites, stores on cruise ships, in-flight and duty-free shops, and DRTV and certain fragrances are sold in self-select outlets.  As is customary in the cosmetics industry, our practice is to accept returns of our products from retailers if properly requested, authorized and approved.
 
We maintain a dedicated sales force which sells to our retail accounts in North America and in the major overseas markets, and in the travel retail channel.  We have wholly-owned operations in over 50 countries, and a controlling interest in a joint venture that operates in three countries, through which we market, sell and distribute our products.  In certain countries, we sell our products through select local distributors under contractual arrangements designed to protect the image and position of the brands.  In addition, we sell certain products in select domestic and international military locations.  For information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region, see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 19 – Segment Data and Related Information.”
 
We sell Aveda products primarily to independent salons and spas, cosmetology schools, third-party distributors and specialty retailers and directly to consumers online, and at our Aveda Experience Centers and certain Aveda Institutes.  There are currently about 8,700 points of sale, primarily in the United States, that sell Aveda products.  Bumble and bumble products are principally sold to about 3,500 independent salons and specialty stores, primarily in the United States.  Darphin products are primarily sold through high-end independent pharmacies, principally in Europe, representing approximately 3,600 points of sale.
 
As part of our strategy to diversify our distribution, we have been selectively opening new single-brand stores that we or our distributors operate.  The Origins, Aveda and MžAžC brands have been the primary focus for this method of distribution, and we are expanding to other brands.  As of August 19, 2013, we operate approximately 690 single-brand stores worldwide, the majority of which are in the United States, and expect that number to increase moderately over the next several years.  We also operate approximately 130 multi-brand stores.
 
We primarily sell Flirt!, GoodSkin Labs, American Beauty and grassroots research labs products in approximately 1,100 Kohl’s Department Stores in the United States and internationally in pharmacies, perfumeries and department stores representing approximately 1,400 additional points of sale.
 
We currently sell products from 15 of our brands directly to consumers online through approximately 180 of our own e-commerce and certain of our m-commerce sites.  Some or all of these brands are sold online in 20 countries including the following: the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Austria, Brazil, Russia, Denmark, Italy, Australia, Korea, China and Japan.
 
Customers
 
Our strategy is to build strong relationships with selected retailers globally.  Senior management works with executives of our major retail accounts on a regular basis, and we believe we are viewed as an important supplier to these customers.  Our largest customer, Macy’s Inc., sells products primarily within the United States and accounted for 11% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 and 10% of our accounts receivable as of June 30, 2013 and 2012.
 
Marketing
 
Our marketing strategy is built around “Bringing the Best to Everyone We Touch.”  Mrs. Estée Lauder formulated this marketing philosophy to provide “High-Touch” service and high quality products as the foundation for a solid and loyal consumer base.  Our marketing efforts focus principally on communicating the quality, value and benefits of our products.  Each of our brands is distinctively positioned, and is promoted with consistent logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it from other brands.  We regularly advertise our products on television, in magazines and newspapers, by digital and social media, on billboards and through direct mail and photo displays at international airports and seek editorial coverage for our brands and products in publications and other media.  Promotional activities and in-store displays are designed to attract new consumers and introduce existing consumers to different products in the line.  Our marketing efforts also benefit from cooperative advertising programs with retailers, some of which are supported by coordinated promotions, such as purchase with purchase and gift with purchase.  Such activities attract consumers to our counters and allow us to introduce them to our products.  Our marketing and sales executives spend considerable time in the field meeting with consumers, retailers and beauty consultants at the points of sale.  These include Estée Lauder Beauty Advisors, Clinique Consultants, Aramis Selling Specialists, Origins Guides and MžAžC and Bobbi Brown Makeup Artists.  At in-store counters, consumers are offered a “High-Touch” experience with personal consultations to market individual products as well as to provide education on their use and application.  We conduct extensive sampling programs and we pioneered gift with purchase as a sampling program.  We believe that the quality and perceived benefits of sample products have been effective inducements to purchases by new and existing consumers.
 
- 5 -






Table of Contents
 
Our “High-Touch” approach promotes the total value we offer by leveraging our in-person and virtual assets, as well as merchandising and education, to provide a customized consumer experience.  To support this initiative, we continue to expand our online strategy into a multi-pronged digital strategy that encompasses e-commerce, m-commerce, as well as digital and social media.  We have dedicated resources to implement coordinated, brand-enhancing strategies across all online activities to increase our direct access to consumers.  We continue to use the Internet to educate and inform consumers about certain of our brands.  Currently, 18 of our brands have marketing sites.  In order to continue to offer unparalleled service and set the standard for prestige beauty shopping online, we partner with key “brick and mortar” retailers to strengthen their e-commerce business and drive sales of our brands on their websites, continue to innovate to better meet consumer online shopping preferences (e.g., how-to videos, ratings and reviews and mobile phone and tablet applications), and support e-commerce and m-commerce business via digital and social marketing activities designed to build brand equity and consumer engagement.
 
Most of our creative marketing work is done by in-house creative teams.  The creative staff designs and produces the sales materials, advertisements and packaging for products in each brand.
 
Global net expenses for advertising, merchandising, sampling, promotion and product development costs were $2,798.0 million, $2,655.7 million and $2,345.8 million in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  These amounts include activities relating to purchase with purchase promotions that are reflected in net sales and cost of sales and gift with purchase promotions that are reflected in cost of sales.
 
Information Systems
 
Information systems support business processes including product development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution and finance.  We expect that these systems will continue to provide pertinent inventory and sales data in the short term.  As part of our long-term effort to enhance these systems and increase productivity, we continue to implement our Strategic Modernization Initiative (“SMI”), which includes an enterprise-wide global program that we expect will deliver a single set of integrated data, processes and technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize business processes across brands, operating units and sales locations.  As part of SMI, we anticipate the continued migration of our operations to SAP-based technologies (“SAP”) with the majority of our locations being enabled through calendar 2014.
 
In parallel with our SAP deployment, we are creating a more focused global information technology organization utilizing industry standard processes.  We are also taking this opportunity to rebalance our information technology resources to better align with our global business growth.  We plan to continue to explore opportunities to create a more efficient organization.
 
Of the many systems currently being utilized, the most significant to our business needs are: (i) a centralized data repository of essential attributes for each of the products we offer, or plan to offer, which enables us to globally manufacture and market products of consistent quality; (ii) a sales analysis system to track weekly sales at the stock keeping unit (“SKU”) level at most significant retail sales locations (i.e. sell-through data), increasing our understanding of consumer preferences and enabling us to coordinate more effectively our product development, manufacturing and marketing strategies; (iii) an automated replenishment system with many of our key domestic customers, allowing us to replenish inventories for individual points of sale automatically, with minimal paperwork; and (iv) an inventory management system that provides us with a global view of finished goods availability relative to forecasted requirements.  As we continue to modernize our key processes and the related systems and infrastructure, we are developing upgraded capabilities to support our human resource and retail operations.  The plan is to progressively develop and deploy key systems globally over the next several years as appropriate according to local requirements and priorities.
 
Research and Development
 
We believe that we are an industry leader in the development of new products.  Marketing, product development and packaging groups work with our research and development group to identify shifts in consumer preferences, develop new products and improve, redesign or reformulate existing products.  In addition, research and development personnel work closely with quality assurance and manufacturing personnel on a worldwide basis to provide ongoing technical assistance and know-how, to ensure consistent global standards for our products and to deliver products with attributes that fulfill consumer expectations.  The research and development group has long-standing working relationships with several U.S. and international medical and educational facilities, which supplement internal capabilities.  Members of the group are also responsible for regulatory compliance matters.
 
We do not conduct animal testing on our products or ingredients, nor ask others to test on our behalf, except when required by law.
 
As of June 30, 2013, we had approximately 500 employees engaged in research and development.  Research and development costs totaled $103.6 million, $96.5 million and $85.7 million in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.  We maintain research and development programs at certain of our principal facilities and facilities dedicated to performing research and development, see “Item 2. Properties.”
 
- 6 -






Table of Contents
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Raw Materials
 
We manufacture our products primarily in the United States, Belgium, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada.  We continue to streamline our manufacturing processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve innovation, increase efficiencies and reduce costs.  Our major manufacturing facilities operate as “focus” plants that primarily manufacture one type of product (e.g., lipsticks) for all of the principal brands.  Our plants are modern, and our manufacturing processes are substantially automated.  While we believe that our network of manufacturing facilities and third party manufacturers is sufficient to meet current and reasonably anticipated manufacturing requirements, we continue to identify opportunities to make significant improvements in capacity, technology and productivity.  To capitalize on innovation and other supply chain benefits, we continue to utilize a network of third-party manufacturers on a global basis, including an increased percentage of volume in Asia/Pacific to support our growth.
 
We have established a global distribution network designed to meet the changing demands of our customers while maintaining service levels.  We are continuously evaluating and adjusting this physical distribution network.  We have continued to establish regional distribution centers, including those maintained by third parties, strategically positioned throughout the world in order to facilitate efficient delivery of our products to our customers.
 
The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are essential oils, alcohols and specialty chemicals.  We also purchase packaging components that are manufactured to our design specifications.  Procurement of materials for all manufacturing facilities is generally made on a global basis through our Global Supplier Relations department.  We are making a concentrated effort in supplier rationalization with the specific objective of reducing costs, increasing innovation and speed to market and improving quality.  In addition, we continue to focus on supply sourcing within the region of manufacture to allow for improved supply chain efficiencies.  As a result of sourcing initiatives, there is increased dependency on certain suppliers, but we believe that our portfolio of these suppliers has adequate resources and facilities to overcome most unforeseen interruptions of supply.  In the past, we have been able to obtain an adequate supply of essential raw materials and currently believe we have adequate sources of supply for virtually all components of our products.
 
We are continually benchmarking the performance of the supply chain and will change suppliers, and adjust our distribution networks and manufacturing footprint based upon the changing needs of the business.  As we integrate acquired brands, we continually seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities to improve our overall supply chain performance.
 
Competition
 
The skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses are characterized by vigorous competition throughout the world.  Brand recognition, quality, performance, availability and price are some of the factors that impact consumers’ choices among competing products and brands.  Advertising, promotion, merchandising, the pace and timing of new product introductions, line extensions and the quality of in-store demonstrations also have a significant impact on consumers’ buying decisions.  With our numerous brands, sold in various channels, we are one of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  We compete against a number of companies, some of which have substantially greater resources than we do.
 
Our principal competitors consist of large, well-known, multinational manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products, most of which market and sell their products under multiple brand names.  They include, among others, L’Oreal S.A.; Shiseido Company, Ltd.; Beiresdorf AG; LVMH Moët Hennessey Louis Vuitton; Coty, Inc.; The Procter & Gamble Company; and Avon Products, Inc.  We also face competition from a number of independent brands, as well as some retailers that have developed their own beauty brands.  Certain of our competitors also have ownership interests in retailers that are customers of ours.
 
Trademarks, Patents and Copyrights
 
We own the trademark rights used in connection with the manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of our products both in the United States and in the other principal countries where such products are sold, including Estée Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, MžAžC, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, American Beauty, Flirt!, GoodSkin Labs, grassroots research labs, Ojon, Smashbox, and Osaio, and the names of many of the products sold under these brands.  We are the exclusive worldwide licensee for fragrances, cosmetics and/or related products for Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New York, DKNY, Kiton, Michael Kors, Tom Ford, Coach, Dr. Andrew Weil, Ermenegildo Zegna, Marni, Aerin and Tory Burch.  For further discussion on license arrangements, including their duration, see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – License Arrangements.”  We protect our trademarks in the United States and significant markets worldwide.  We consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our business.
 
A number of our products incorporate patented, patent-pending or proprietary technology.  In addition, several products and packaging for such products are covered by design patents or copyrights.  While we consider these patents and copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be important, no single patent or copyright, or group of patents or copyrights, is considered material to the conduct of our business.
 
- 7 -






Table of Contents
 
Employees
 
At June 30, 2013, we had approximately 40,200 full-time employees worldwide (including demonstrators at points of sale who are employed by us), of whom approximately 12,500 are employed in the United States and Canada.  None of our employees in the United States is covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  A limited number of employees outside of the United States are covered by a works council agreement or other syndicate arrangements.
 
Government Regulation
 
We and our products are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, as well as by various other federal, state, local and international regulatory authorities and the regulatory authorities in the countries in which our products are produced or sold.  Such regulations principally relate to the ingredients, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing, shipment, disposal and safety of our products.  We believe that we are in substantial compliance with such regulations, as well as with applicable federal, state, local and international and other countries’ rules and regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment or that relate to climate change.  There are no significant capital expenditures for environmental control or climate change matters either planned in the current year or expected in the near future.
 
Seasonality
 
Our results of operations in total, by region and by product category, are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with net sales in the first half of the fiscal year typically being slightly higher than in the second half of the fiscal year.  The higher net sales in the first half of the fiscal year are attributable to the increased levels of purchasing by retailers for the holiday selling season.  Many of our customers that are retailers follow a 4-4-5 retail calendar which may influence the amount and timing of their order placement and receipt of goods in any fiscal quarter.  In a traditional 4-4-5 retail calendar, each fiscal quarter is comprised of two 4-week periods and one 5-week period, with one extra week in one quarter every seven years.  As a result, our customers’ retail quarter-end and our fiscal quarter-end may be different by up to six days.  Fluctuations in net sales and operating income in total and by geographic region and product category in any fiscal quarter may be attributable to the level and scope of new product introductions.  Additionally, gross margins and operating expenses are impacted on a quarter-by-quarter basis by variations in our launch calendar and the timing of promotions, including purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.
 
Availability of Reports
 
We make available financial information, news releases and other information on our website at www.elcompanies.com.  There is a direct link from the website to our Securities and Exchange Commission filings via the EDGAR database at www.sec.gov, where our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.
 
Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct
 
The Board of Directors has developed corporate governance practices to help it fulfill its responsibilities to stockholders in providing general direction and oversight of management.  These practices are set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines.  We also have a Code of Conduct (“Code”) applicable to all employees, officers and directors of the Company, including, without limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other senior financial officers.  These documents and any waiver of a provision of the Code granted to any senior officer or director or material amendment to the Code, if any, may be found in the “Investor Relations” section of our website: www.elcompanies.com within the “Leadership” subsection under the heading “Corporate Governance.”  The charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Board Affairs Committee may be found in “Committees” within “Governance Documents.”  Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these documents without charge.
 
- 8 -






Table of Contents
 
Executive Officers
 
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers:
 



Name    

     

Age    

     

Position(s) Held       


John   Demsey    

     

57    

     

Group   President       


Amy   DiGeso    

     

61    

     

Executive   Vice President – Global Human Resources 
(until   September 30, 2013)       


Fabrizio   Freda    

     

55    

     

President,   Chief Executive Officer and a Director       


Carl   Haney    

     

50    

     

Executive   Vice President, Global Research and Development, Corporate Product Innovation,   Package Development       


Leonard   A. Lauder    

     

80    

     

Chairman   Emeritus and a Director       


Ronald   S. Lauder    

     

69    

     

Chairman   of Clinique Laboratories, LLC       


William   P. Lauder    

     

53    

     

Executive   Chairman and a Director       


Sara   E. Moss    

     

66    

     

Executive   Vice President and General Counsel       


Michael   O’Hare    

     

45    

     

Executive   Vice President – Global Human Resources 
(as   of September 30, 2013)       


Gregory   F. Polcer    

     

58    

     

Executive   Vice President – Global Supply Chain       


Cedric   Prouvé    

     

53    

     

Group   President – International       


Tracey   T. Travis    

     

51    

     

Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       


Alexandra   C. Trower    

     

48    

     

Executive   Vice President – Global Communications         
 
John Demsey was appointed Group President in July 2006.  In this role, he is  responsible for the Estée Lauder, M·A·C, Prescriptives, Smashbox, Tom Ford Beauty, Bobbi Brown, Jo Malone, La Mer and Bumble and bumble brands.  In January 2005, Mr. Demsey became Global Brand President of Estée Lauder after serving as President and Managing Director of M·A·C since 1998.  From 1991 to 1998, he held several positions with Estée Lauder, including Senior Vice President of Sales and Education for Estée Lauder USA and Canada.  Before joining us, he worked in sales and marketing for Revlon, Borghese, Alexandra de Markoff Cosmetics, and Lancaster Cosmetics.  He also held various executive retail positions at Bloomingdale’s, Macy’s, Benetton and Saks Fifth Avenue.  Mr. Demsey serves as Chairman of the M·A·C AIDS Fund, is on the Board of Directors of The Jones Group and is active in many other cultural organizations.
 
Amy DiGeso became Executive Vice President - Global Human Resources in May 2006.  From May 2005, when she joined us, to May 2006 she was Senior Vice President - Global Human Resources.  She was Senior Partner - Global Human Resource in charge of the Human Resources Department at PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP from May 2001 through June 2003.  From April 1999 through April 2001, Ms. DiGeso was President of the Popular Club Plan, a direct sales subsidiary of Federated Department Stores, and from May 1992 through December 1998, she served in various executive capacities at Mary Kay, Inc., including Chief Executive Officer from November 1996 through December 1998.  Since June 2003, Ms. DiGeso has been engaged in various philanthropic activities.  In June 2013, we announced that Ms. DiGeso will be retiring and that a new Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources has been named effective as of September 30, 2013.  From that date until June 30, 2014, Ms. DiGeso will be Executive Vice President, Senior Advisor to the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Fabrizio Freda has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since July 2009.  During such period, he has continued to lead the implementation of our long-term strategy that has resulted in a substantial increase in our market capitalization.  From March 2008 through June 2009, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company where he oversaw the Clinique, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Jo Malone, Aveda and Bumble and bumble brands and the Aramis and Designer Fragrances division.  He also was responsible for the Company’s International Division, as well as Global Operations, Research and Development, Packaging, Quality Assurance, Merchandise Design, Corporate Store Design and Retail Store Operations.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Freda served in a number of positions of increasing responsibility at The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”), where he was responsible for various operating, marketing and key strategic efforts for over 20 years.  From 2001 through 2007 Mr. Freda was President, Global Snacks, at P&G. Mr. Freda also spent more than a decade in the Health and Beauty Care division at P&G.  From 1986 to 1988 he directed marketing and strategic planning for Gucci SpA.  Mr. Freda is also a member of the Board of Directors of BlackRock, Inc., a global investment manager.
 
Carl Haney became Executive Vice President, Global Research and Development, Corporate Product Innovation, Package Development in January 2012.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Haney was Vice President, R&D Global, Male Grooming, Gillette, Braun and Devices, leading teams in all aspects of innovation, including product, packaging, process development and engineering at The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”) from 2007 through May 2012.  Mr. Haney started his career at P&G in 1984, and over the years held numerous leadership positions in locations around the world.  In 1997, he was promoted to Director, Latin America Beauty Care R&D.  Mr. Haney also held R&D leadership roles for P&G Global Cosmetics and Oral Care and led P&G innovation teams in Latin America, Europe and Asia.
 
- 9 -






Table of Contents
 
Leonard A. Lauder is Chairman Emeritus and a member of the Board of Directors.  He was Chairman of the Board of Directors from 1995 through June 2009 and served as our Chief Executive Officer from 1982 through 1999 and President from 1972 until 1995.  Mr. Lauder formally joined us in 1958 after serving as an officer in the United States Navy.  Since joining, he has held various positions, including executive officer positions other than those described above.  He is Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee of The University of Pennsylvania, a Trustee of The Aspen Institute and the co-founder and director of the Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation.  He also served as a member of the White House Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.
 
Ronald S. Lauder has served as Chairman of Clinique Laboratories, LLC since returning from government service in 1987 and was Chairman of Estee Lauder International, Inc. from 1987 through 2002.  He was a member of the Board of Directors of the Company from 1968 to 1986 and again from 1988 to July 2009.  Mr. Lauder joined the Company in 1964 and has served in various capacities.  From 1983 to 1986, Mr. Lauder served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for European and NATO Affairs.  From 1986 to 1987, he was U.S. Ambassador to Austria.  He is non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Central European Media Enterprises Ltd.  He is also an Honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Museum of Modern Art and President of the Neue Galerie.
 
William P. Lauder is Executive Chairman and, in such role, he is Chairman of the Board of Directors.  He was Chief Executive Officer of the Company from March 2008 through June 2009 and President and Chief Executive Officer from July 2004 through February 2008.  From January 2003 through June 2004, he was Chief Operating Officer.  From July 2001 through 2002, he was Group President responsible for the worldwide business of the Clinique and Origins brands and the Company’s retail store and online operations.  From 1998 to 2001, he was President of Clinique Laboratories, LLC.  Prior to 1998, he was President of Origins Natural Resources Inc., and he had been the senior officer of that division since its inception in 1990.  Prior thereto, he served in various positions since joining the Company in 1986.  He is a member of the Board of Directors of Jarden Corporation.  Additionally, within the past five years, Mr. Lauder served as a director of GLG Partners, Inc. and True Temper Sports, Inc.  He also currently serves as Chairman of the Board of the Fresh Air Fund, a member of the Boards of Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania and The Trinity School in New York City, the Boards of Directors of the 92nd Street Y and the Partnership for New York City, and the Advisory Board of Zelnick Media.
 
Sara E. Moss is Executive Vice President and General Counsel.  She became Executive Vice President in November 2004.  She joined us as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in September 2003.  She was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes Inc. from 1996 to February 2003, and Senior Litigation Partner for Howard, Smith & Levin (now Covington & Burling) in New York from 1984 to 1996.  Prior to 1984, Ms. Moss served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Criminal Division in the Southern District of New York, was an associate at the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardwell and was Law Clerk to the Honorable Constance Baker Motley, U.S. District Judge in the Southern District of New York.
 
Michael O’Hare will join the Company on September 30, 2013 as Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources.  As noted above, he is succeeding Amy DiGeso.  Mr. O’Hare joins the Company from Heineken N.V., a global brewer based in the Netherlands, where he served since 2009 as Global Chief Human Resources Officer.  Previously, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, a global food and beverage company, where he held a variety of senior roles in Human Resources, including Chief Personnel Officer/Vice President for Asia Pacific.
 
Gregory F. Polcer became Executive Vice President - Global Supply Chain in July 2008.  He is responsible for Global Direct and Indirect Procurement, Manufacturing, Logistics, Quality Assurance and Environmental Affairs and Safety and has shared leadership for Corporate Responsibility.  From 1988 to 2008, he worked for Unilever where he designed and implemented global, regional and local initiatives.  Most recently, from 2006 to 2008, he served as the Senior Vice President, Supply Chain for Unilever where he integrated the North and Latin American Supply Chains, provided senior leadership for all global supply management and established a global outsourcing plan.  He served as Senior Vice President, Supply Chain - North America from 2005 to 2006 and Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, Home and Personal Care – North America from 2002 to 2004.
 
Cedric Prouvé became Group President - International in January 2003.  He is responsible for our International Division, which includes all markets outside of North America, our Travel Retail business worldwide and all of the activities of our sales affiliates and distributor relationships.  From August 2000 through December 2002 he was the General Manager of our Japanese sales affiliate.  From January 1997 to August 2000, he was Vice President, General Manager, Travel Retail.  He started with us in 1994 as General Manager, Travel Retailing - Asia Pacific Region and was given the added responsibility of General Manager of our Singapore affiliate in 1995.  Prior to joining us he worked at L’Oreal in sales and management positions in the Americas and Asia/Pacific.
 
Tracey T. Travis joined the Company in August 2012 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Travis had been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ralph Lauren Corporation since 2005, responsible for Global Finance, Internal Audit, Treasury, Tax, Business Development, Investor Relations and Global Information Technology.  Previously, Ms. Travis was Senior Vice President, Finance of Intimate Brands for Limited Brands, Inc. from 2002 to 2004.  She also spent a decade at PepsiCo Inc. and the Pepsi Bottling Group, where she held operations management and finance roles.  She began her career as an engineer and financial analyst at General Motors Company.  Ms. Travis is a member of the Board of Directors of Campbell Soup Company.
 
- 10 -






Table of Contents
 
Alexandra C. Trower became Executive Vice President - Global Communications in April 2008.  She directs the Company’s overall communications strategy, overseeing brand communications, corporate communications, internal communications and philanthropic communications.  Before joining us, Ms. Trower was Senior Vice President, Media Relations for Bank of America from July 2003 to March 2008.  From 1997 to 2003, she worked at JPMorgan Chase, where she was responsible for corporate communications at JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management.  From 1987 to 1997, Ms. Trower worked at a former division of Citibank, Chancellor Capital Management (now part of Invesco), where she held a variety of communications roles.  Ms. Trower serves on the Board of Directors of Hollins University.
 
Each executive officer serves for a one-year term ending at the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors, subject to his or her applicable employment agreement and his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
 
Item 1A.  Risk Factors.
 
There are risks associated with an investment in our securities.
 
Please consider the following risks and all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial.  If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur or other risks arise or develop, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the trading prices of our securities, may be adversely affected.
 
The beauty business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results will suffer.
 
We face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational consumer product companies.  Some of these competitors have greater resources than we do and may be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions more quickly than us.  Competition in the beauty business is based on pricing of products, innovation, perceived value, service to the consumer, promotional activities, advertising, special events, new product introductions, e-commerce and m-commerce initiatives and other activities.  It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors’ actions in these areas.  Also, the consolidation in the retail trade has resulted in us becoming increasingly dependent on key retailers, including large-format retailers, who have increased their negotiating strength.  This could result in an increased risk related to the concentration of our customers.  A severe adverse impact on the business operations of our customers could have a corresponding material adverse effect on us.  Our ability to compete also depends on the continued strength of our brands, our ability to attract and retain key talent and other personnel, the efficiency of our manufacturing facilities and distribution network, and our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property and those other rights used in our business.  In addition, certain of our key retailers around the world market and sell competing brands or are owned or otherwise affiliated with companies that market and sell competing brands.  Our inability to continue to compete effectively in key countries around the world could have an adverse impact on our business.
 
Our inability to anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our financial results.
 
Our continued success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer tastes for skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products, attitudes toward our industry and brands, as well as to where and how consumers shop for those products.  We must continually work to develop, manufacture and market new products, maintain and adapt our “High-Touch” services to existing and emerging distribution channels, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and where we market and sell our products.  While we devote considerable effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, we recognize that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly.  The issue is compounded by the increasing use of social and digital media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared.  If we are unable to anticipate and respond to sudden challenges that we may face in the marketplace, trends in the market for our products and changing consumer demands and sentiment, our financial results will suffer.
 
Our future success depends on our ability to achieve our long-term strategy.
 
Achieving our long-term strategy will require investment in new capabilities, brands, categories, distribution channels, technologies and emerging and more mature geographic markets.  These investments may result in short-term costs without any current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings, at least in the short term.  In addition, we may dispose of or discontinue select brands or streamline operations and incur costs or restructuring and other charges in doing so.  Although we believe that our strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits.  The failure to realize benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute plans, global or local economic conditions, competition, changes in the beauty industry and the other risks described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
- 11 -







Table of Contents
 
Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks.
 
We continuously review acquisition opportunities that would expand our current product offerings, our distribution channels, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities.  If required, the financing for any of these acquisitions could result in an increase in our indebtedness, dilute the interests of our stockholders or both.  Acquisitions entail numerous risks, which may include:
 
·                  difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from, or customers of, acquired businesses;
·                  diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses;
·                  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and
·                  risks of entering distribution channels, categories or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience.
 
Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms.
 
Completed acquisitions typically result in additional goodwill and/or an increase in other intangible assets on our balance sheet.  We are required at least annually, or as facts and circumstances exist, to test goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives to determine if impairment has occurred.  If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives and the implied fair value of the goodwill or the fair value of other intangible assets with indefinite lives in the period the determination is made.  We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets.  Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
 
A general economic downturn, or sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and/or the financial strength of our customers that are retailers, which could adversely affect our financial results.
 
The general level of consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control.  Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products.  A decline in consumer purchases of discretionary items also tends to impact our customers that are retailers.  We generally extend credit to a retailer based on an evaluation of its financial condition, usually without requiring collateral.  However, the financial difficulties of a retailer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer.  We may also assume more credit risk relating to the receivables from that retailer.  Our inability to collect the receivable from one of our largest customers or from a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition.  If a retailer was to liquidate, we may incur additional costs if we choose to purchase the retailer’s inventory of our products to protect brand equity.
 
In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions, for example, as a consequence of events such as a pandemic or local or international conflicts around the world, or as a result of a terrorist attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation, or as a result of adverse weather conditions or climate changes or seismic events, can have a short-term and, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending.
 
Events that impact consumers’ willingness or ability to travel and/or purchase our products while traveling may impact our business, including travel retail, a significant contributor to our overall results, and our strategy to market and sell products to international travelers at their destinations.
 
A downturn in the economies of, or continuing recessions in, the countries where we sell our products or a sudden disruption of business conditions in those countries could adversely affect consumer confidence, the financial strength of our retailers and our sales and profitability.  We continue to see weakness due to global economic uncertainties and volatility in financial markets, particularly in certain Southern European countries and Korea.  Elsewhere, we are cautious of a slowing retail environment in the United States in the short term and that a slowing of the future growth trend of the Chinese economy may temper our retail sales growth, including that of our travel retail business.
 
Volatility in the financial markets and a related economic downturn in key markets or markets generally throughout the world could have a material adverse effect on our business.  While we currently generate significant cash flows from our ongoing operations and have access to global credit markets through our various financing activities, credit markets may experience significant disruptions.  Deterioration in global financial markets could make future financing difficult or more expensive.  If any financial institutions that are parties to our undrawn revolving credit facility supporting our commercial paper program or other financing arrangements, such as interest rate or foreign exchange hedging instruments, were to declare bankruptcy or become insolvent, they may be unable to perform under their agreements with us.  This could leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain interest rate or foreign currency exposures which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
 
- 12 -






Table of Contents
 
Changes in laws, regulations and policies that affect our business could adversely affect our financial results.
 
Our business is subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies.  Changes in the laws, regulations and policies, including the interpretation or enforcement thereof, that affect, or will affect, our business, including changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, laws and regulations relating to data privacy, anti-corruption, advertising, manufacturing, distribution, product registration, ingredients, chemicals and packaging, laws in Europe and elsewhere relating to selective distribution, environmental or climate change laws, regulations or accords, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result could adversely affect our financial results.
 
We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in disputes and other legal or regulatory proceedings that, if adversely decided or settled, could adversely affect our financial results.
 
We are, and may in the future become, party to litigation, other disputes or regulatory proceedings.  In general, claims made by us or against us in litigation, disputes or other proceedings can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements, injunctions or damages that could significantly affect our business or financial results.  We are currently vigorously contesting certain of these claims.  However, it is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation, disputes or proceedings to which we currently are or may in the future become party to, and the impact of certain of these matters on our business, results of operations and financial condition could be material.
 
Government reviews, inquiries, investigations, and actions could harm our business or reputation.
 
As we operate in various locations around the world, our operations in certain countries are subject to significant governmental scrutiny and may be adversely impacted by the results of such scrutiny.  The regulatory environment with regard to our business is evolving, and officials often exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply applicable regulations.  From time to time, we may receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities, as well as self-regulatory organizations, about our business and compliance with local laws, regulations or standards.  Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our employees, are not in compliance with existing laws, regulations or standards could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, or similar results, all of which could potentially harm our business and/or reputation.  Even if an inquiry does not result in these types of determinations, it potentially could create negative publicity which could harm our business and/or reputation.
 
Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products.
 
Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products.  If our products are found to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our consumers’ standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
Our success depends, in part, on our key personnel.
 
Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and senior management team.  The unexpected loss of one or more of our key employees could adversely affect our business.  Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified personnel.  Competition for these employees can be intense.  We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business.  This risk may be exacerbated by the stresses associated with the implementation of our strategic plan and other initiatives.
 
- 13 -






Table of Contents
 
We are subject to risks related to our foreign operations.
 
We operate on a global basis, with a majority of our fiscal 2013 net sales and operating income generated outside the United States.
 
We intend to reinvest these earnings in our foreign operations indefinitely, except where we are able to repatriate these earnings to the United States without material incremental tax provision.  A portion of our cash and cash equivalents that result from these earnings remain outside the United States.  If these indefinitely reinvested earnings were repatriated into the United States as dividends, we would be subject to additional taxes.
 
We maintain offices in over 50 countries and have key operational facilities located outside the United States that manufacture, warehouse or distribute goods for sale throughout the world.  Foreign operations are subject to many risks and uncertainties, including:
 
·                fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which can affect our results of operations, the value of our foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and the cost of certain inventory and non-inventory items required in our operations;
 
·                foreign laws, regulations and policies, including restrictions on trade, import and export license requirements, and tariffs and taxes, as well as United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade, operations and investment;
 
·                lack of well-established or reliable legal and administrative systems in certain countries in which we operate; and
 
·                adverse weather conditions, currency exchange controls, and social, economic and geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other military action.
 
These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
 
A disruption in operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results.
 
As a company engaged in manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites or suppliers, product quality control, safety, increase in commodity prices and energy costs, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no control.  If such an event were to occur, it could have an adverse affect on our business and financial results.
 
We use a wide variety of direct and indirect suppliers of goods and services from around the world.  Some of our products rely on single or a limited number of suppliers.  Changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers could subject us to losses or adversely affect our ability to bring products to market.  Further, the failure of our suppliers to deliver goods and services in sufficient quantities, in compliance with applicable standards, and in a timely manner could adversely affect our customer service levels and overall business.  In addition, any increases in the costs of goods and services for our business may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies in our operations.
 
Our information systems and websites may be susceptible to cybersecurity breaches, outages, and other risks.
 
We have information systems that support our business processes, including product development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intracompany communications throughout the world.  We have e-commerce, m-commerce and other Internet websites in the United States and many other countries.  These systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events.  Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to cybersecurity breaches such as computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering.  The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information systems and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
 
- 14 -






Table of Contents
 
Failure to adequately maintain the security of our electronic and other confidential information could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
 
We are dependent upon automated information technology processes.  As part of our normal business activities, we collect and store certain information that is confidential, proprietary or otherwise sensitive, including personal information with respect to customers and employees.  We may share some of this information with vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business.  Moreover, the success of our e-commerce and m-commerce operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential and personal data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments.  Any failure on the part of us or our vendors to maintain the security of our confidential data and our employees’ and customers’ personal information, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and thus could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources to enhance our information security systems and could result in a disruption to our operations.
 
We are subject to risks associated with implementing global information systems.
 
As part of our Strategic Modern Initiative (“SMI”), we are implementing enterprise-wide global programs intended to deliver a single set of integrated data, processes and technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize business processes across brands, regions and functions.  We anticipate the continued migration of our operations to SAP, with the majority of our locations to be enabled through calendar 2014.  We are also implementing other systems, including global human resource management systems and retail operating systems.  Like most entity-wide changes to software systems, the implementation of SMI and other systems involve risks and uncertainties.  Failure to implement SMI and other systems as planned, in terms of timing, specifications and/or costs could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
 
As we outsource more functions, we will become more dependent on the entities performing those functions.
 
As part of our long-term strategy, we are continually looking for opportunities to provide essential business services in a more cost-effective manner.  In some cases, this requires the outsourcing of functions or parts of functions that can be performed more effectively by external service providers.  These include certain information systems functions such as information technology operations, and certain human resource functions such as employee benefit plan administration.  While we believe we conduct appropriate due diligence before entering into agreements with the outsourcing entity, the failure of one or more entities to provide the expected services, provide them on a timely basis or to provide them at the prices we expect may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
 
The trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance.
 
Our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter.  We believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders.  At the same time, however, we recognize that it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our forecast of net sales, earnings per share and other financial metrics or projections.  Accordingly, when we announced our year-end financial results for fiscal 2013, we provided guidance as to a number of assumptions, including our expected net sales and earnings per share for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2014 and the quarter ending September 30, 2013.  While we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise.  In addition, the longer-term guidance we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance over a number of years.  Such targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations.
 
In all of our public statements when we make, or update, a forward-looking statement about our net sales and/or earnings expectations or expectations regarding restructuring or other initiatives, we accompany such statements directly, or by reference to a public document, with a list of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we expect.  Such a list is included, among other places, in our earnings press release and in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (e.g., in our reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q).  These and other factors may make it difficult for us and for outside observers, such as research analysts, to predict what our earnings will be in any given fiscal quarter or year.
 
- 15 -






Table of Contents
 
Outside analysts and investors have the right to make their own predictions of our financial results for any future period.  Outside analysts, however, have access to no more material information about our results or plans than any other public investor, and we do not endorse their predictions as to our future performance.  Nor do we assume any responsibility to correct the predictions of outside analysts or others when they differ from our own internal expectations.  If and when we announce actual results that differ from those that outside analysts or others have been predicting, the market price of our securities could be affected.  Investors who rely on the predictions of outside analysts or others when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk.  We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities.
 
We are controlled by the Lauder family.  As a result of their control of us, the Lauder family has the ability to prevent or cause a change in control or approve, prevent or influence certain actions by us.
 
As of August 19, 2013, members of the Lauder family beneficially own, directly or indirectly, shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock (with one vote per share) and Class B Common Stock (with 10 votes per share) having 86% of the outstanding voting power of the Common Stock.  In addition, there are four members of the Lauder family who are employees, including three who are members of our Board of Directors.  Another family member is on our board and is a party to a consulting agreement and a license agreement with us.  As a result of the stock ownership and their positions at the Company, the Lauder family has the ability to exercise significant control and influence over our business, including, without limitation, all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendments to the certificate of incorporation and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our Company or its assets, for the foreseeable future.
 
We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, are relying on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that are designed to provide protection to stockholders of companies that are not “controlled companies.”
 
The Lauder family and their related entities own more than 50% of the total voting power of our common shares and, as a result, we are a “controlled company” under the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards.  As a controlled company, we are exempt under the New York Stock Exchange standards from the obligation to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, including the requirements:
 
·                      that a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors;
·                      that we have a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and
·                      that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities.
 
While we have voluntarily caused our Board to have a majority of independent directors and the written charters of our Nominating and Board Affairs Committee and the Compensation Committee to have the required provisions, we are not requiring our Nominating and Board Affairs Committee and Compensation Committee to be comprised solely of independent directors.  As a result of our use of the “controlled company” exemptions, investors will not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements.
 
Item 1B