Item 1A.  Risk Factors.

 

There are risks associated with an investment in our
securities.

 

Please consider the following risks and all of the
other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our subsequent
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Our business may also be adversely affected
by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently
believe to be immaterial.  If any of the
events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur or other
risks arise or develop, our business, prospects, financial condition and
results of operations, as well as the trading prices of our securities, may be
adversely affected.

 

The beauty business
is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results
will suffer.

 

We face vigorous competition from companies throughout
the world, including multinational consumer product companies.  Some of
these competitors have greater resources than we do and may be able to respond
to changing business and economic conditions more quickly than us. 
Competition in the beauty business is based on pricing of products, innovation,
perceived value, service to the consumer, promotional activities, advertising,
special events, new product introductions, e-commerce and mobile-commerce
initiatives and other activities.  It is difficult for us to predict the
timing and scale of our competitors’ actions in these areas.  In
particular, the fragrance category in the United States has in the past been
influenced by the high volume of new product introductions by diverse companies
across several different distribution channels. 
Also, the trend toward consolidation in the retail trade, particularly
in developed markets such as the United States and Western Europe, has resulted
in us becoming increasingly dependent on key retailers, including large-format
retailers, who have increased their bargaining strength.  This trend has also resulted in an increased
risk related to the concentration of our customers.  A severe adverse impact on their business
operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on us.  Our
ability to compete also depends on the continued strength of our brands, our
ability to attract and retain key talent and other personnel, the efficiency of
our manufacturing facilities and distribution network, and our ability to
protect our intellectual property.  Our inability to continue to compete
effectively in countries around the world could have an adverse impact on our
business.

 

Our inability to
anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences
could adversely affect our financial results.

 

Our continued success depends on our ability to
anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in
consumer tastes for skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products, their
attitudes toward our industry and brands, as well as to where and how consumers
shop for those products.  We must continually work to develop, produce and
market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands,
achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and
where we market and sell our products.  While we devote considerable
effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, we
recognize that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can
change rapidly.  The issue is compounded by the increasing use of social
and digital media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions
are shared.  If we are unable to
anticipate and respond to sudden challenges that we may face in the
marketplace, trends in the market for our products and changing consumer
demands and sentiment, our financial results will suffer.

 

Our future success depends on our
ability to achieve our long-term strategy.

 

Achieving our long-term objectives will require
investment in new capabilities, brands, categories, distribution channels,
technologies and geographic markets. 
These investments may result in short-term costs without any current
revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings, at least in the short
term.  In addition, we may dispose of or
discontinue select brands or streamline operations and incur costs or special
charges in doing so.  Although we believe
that our strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability,
we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits.  The failure to realize benefits, which may be
due to our inability to execute plans, global economic conditions, competition,
changes in the beauty industry and the other risks described herein, could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

 

11












Table of
Contents

 

Acquisitions may expose us to additional
risks.

 

We continuously review acquisition opportunities that
would expand our current product offerings, our distribution channels, increase
the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and
operating efficiency opportunities.  If
required, the financing for any of these acquisitions could result in an
increase in our indebtedness, dilute the interests of our stockholders or
both.  Acquisitions may entail numerous
risks, including:

 

·                  difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including
the loss of key employees from or customers of acquired businesses;

·                  diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses;

·                  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and
customers; and

·                  risks of entering distribution channels, categories or markets in which
we have limited or no prior experience.

 

Our failure to successfully complete the integration
of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and operating results. 
In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify
suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms.

 

We are required at least annually, or as facts and
circumstances warrant, to test goodwill and other intangible assets with
indefinite lives to determine if impairment has occurred.  If the testing performed indicates that
impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge
for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other
intangible assets with indefinite lives and the implied fair value of the
goodwill or the fair value of other intangible assets with indefinite lives in
the period the determination is made.  We
cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of
assets.  Should the value of goodwill or
other intangible assets become impaired, there will be an adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

 

A general economic
downturn or sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer
purchases of discretionary items and/or the financial strength of our customers
that are retailers, which could adversely affect our financial results.

 

The general level of consumer spending is affected by
a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest
rates, energy costs, and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond
our control.  Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline
during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact
sales of our products.  A decline in consumer purchases of discretionary
items also tends to impact our customers that are retailers.  We generally extend credit to a retailer
based on an evaluation of its financial condition, usually without requiring
collateral.  However, the financial
difficulties of a retailer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with
that customer.  We may also assume more credit
risk relating to the receivables from that retailer.  Our inability to collect the receivable from
one of our largest customers or from a group of customers could have a material
adverse effect on our business and our financial condition.  If a retailer was to liquidate, we may incur
additional costs if we choose to purchase the retailer’s inventory of our
products to protect brand equity.

 

In addition, sudden disruptions in business
conditions, for example, as a consequence of events such as a pandemic or those
that are currently taking place in the Middle East, or as a result of a
terrorist attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation,
or as a result of adverse weather conditions or climate changes, can have a
short and, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending.

 

Events that impact consumers’ willingness or ability
to travel and/or purchase our products while traveling may impact our travel
retail business, which is a significant contributor to our overall results.

 

A downturn in the economies in which we sell our
products or a sudden disruption of business conditions in those economies could
adversely affect our sales and profitability.

 

Volatility in the financial markets and a related
economic downturn in key markets or markets generally throughout the world
could have a material adverse effect on our business.  While we currently generate significant cash
flows from our ongoing operations and have access to global credit markets
through our various financing activities, credit markets may experience
significant disruptions.  Deterioration
in global financial markets could make future financing difficult or more
expensive.  If any financial institutions
that are parties to our undrawn revolving credit facility supporting our
commercial paper program or other financing arrangements, such as interest rate
or foreign exchange hedging instruments, were to declare bankruptcy or become
insolvent, they may be unable to perform under their agreements with us.  This could leave us with reduced borrowing
capacity or unhedged against certain interest rate or foreign currency
exposures which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and
results of operations.

 

12












Table of
Contents

 

Changes in laws,
regulations and policies that affect our business could adversely affect our
financial results.

 

Our business is subject to numerous laws, regulations
and policies.  Changes in the laws, regulations and policies, including
the interpretation or enforcement thereof, that affect, or will affect, our
business, including changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations,
environmental or climate change laws, regulations or accords, trade rules and
customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory
proceedings, and any action we may take as a result could adversely affect our
financial results.

 

Our success depends, in part, on the quality
and safety of our products.

 

Our success depends, in part, on the quality and
safety of our products.  If our products
are found to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our
consumers’ standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could
suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we
could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could
result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

Our success depends, in part, on our key
personnel.

 

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain
our key personnel, including our executive officers and senior management
team.  The unexpected loss of one or more
of our key employees could adversely affect our business.  Our success also depends, in part, on our
continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified
personnel.  Competition for these
employees can be intense.  We may not be
able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and
our failure to do so could adversely affect our business.  This risk may be exacerbated by the stresses
associated with the implementation of our strategic plan and other initiatives.

 

We are subject to risks related to our
international operations.

 

We operate on a global basis, with approximately 62%
of our fiscal 2010 net sales generated outside the United States.  We
maintain offices in over 40 countries and have key operational facilities located
outside the United States that manufacture, warehouse or distribute goods for
sale throughout the world.  Foreign operations are subject to many risks
and uncertainties, including:

 

·                  fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates, which can affect our results of operations,
the value of our foreign assets,  the
relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same
markets and the cost of certain inventory  and
non-inventory items required in our operations;

·                  changes
in foreign laws, regulations and policies, including restrictions on trade,
import and export license requirements,  and
tariffs and taxes, as well as changes in United States laws and regulations
relating to foreign trade and investment; and

·                  adverse
weather conditions, social, economic and geopolitical conditions, such as
terrorist attacks, war or other military action.

 

These risks could have a material adverse effect on
our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.

 

A disruption in
operations could adversely affect our business and financial results.

 

As a company engaged in manufacturing and distribution
on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities,
including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor
disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, loss or
impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety,
licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural
disasters and other external factors over which we have no control.  If
such an event were to occur, it could have an adverse affect on our business
and financial results.

 

Our information systems and
websites may be susceptible to outages and other risks.

 

We have information systems that support our business
processes, including product development, marketing, sales, order processing,
production, distribution, finance and intracompany communications throughout
the world.  We have e-commerce and other
Internet websites in the United States and many other countries.  These systems may be susceptible to outages
due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and
similar events.  Despite the
implementation of network security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to
computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized
tampering.  The occurrence of these or
other events could disrupt or damage our information systems and adversely
affect our business and results of operations.

 

13












Table of
Contents

 

We are subject to risks
associated with implementing global information systems.

 

As part of SMI, we are implementing enterprise-wide
global programs intended to deliver a single set of integrated data, processes
and technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize business
processes across brands, operating units and sales affiliates.  We anticipate the continued migration of our
operations to SAP, with the majority of our locations to be implemented through
fiscal 2012.  Like most entity-wide
changes to software systems, the implementation of SMI involves risks and
uncertainties.  Failure to implement SMI
as planned, in terms of timing, specifications and/or costs could have an
adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

 

The trading prices of our
securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions
of our earnings or other financial performance.

 

Our business planning process is designed to maximize
our long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings
target in any particular fiscal quarter. 
We believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the
Company and our stockholders.  At the
same time, however, we recognize that it may be helpful to provide investors
with guidance as to our forecast of net sales and earnings per share.  Accordingly, when we announced our year-end
financial results for fiscal 2010, we provided guidance as to our expected net
sales and earnings per share for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011 and
the quarter ending September 30, 2010. 
While we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we
report our results each fiscal quarter, we assume no responsibility to update
any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise.  In addition, the longer-term guidance we
provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are
reasonably attainable for growth and performance over a number of years.  Such targets are more difficult to predict
than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations.

 

In all of our public statements when we make, or
update, a forward-looking statement about our sales and/or earnings
expectations or expectations regarding restructuring or other initiatives, we
accompany such statements directly, or by reference to a public document, with
a list of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from
those we expect.  Such a list is
included, among other places, in our earnings press release and in our periodic
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (e.g., in our reports on Form 10-K
and Form 10-Q).  These and other
factors may make it difficult for outside observers, such as research analysts,
to predict what our earnings will be in any given fiscal quarter or year.

 

Outside analysts and investors have the right to make
their own predictions of our financial results for any future period.  Outside analysts, however, have access to no
more material information about our results or plans than any other public
investor, and we do not endorse their predictions as to our future performance.  Nor do we assume any responsibility to correct
the predictions of outside analysts or others when they differ from our own
internal expectations.  If and when we
announce actual results that differ from those that outside analysts or others
have been predicting, the market price of our securities could be
affected.  Investors who rely on the
predictions of outside analysts or others when making investment decisions with
respect to our securities do so at their own risk.  We take no responsibility for any losses
suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities.

 

Failure to adequately maintain
the security of our electronic and other confidential information could
materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

 

We are dependent upon automated information technology
processes.  As part of our normal
business activities, we collect and store certain confidential information,
including personal information with respect to customers and employees.  We may share some of this information with
vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business.  Moreover, the success of our e-commerce
operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential and personal
data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments.  Any failure on the part of us or our vendors
to maintain the security of our confidential data and our employees’ and
customers’ personal information, including via the penetration of our network
security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information,
could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial
obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and
private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in
deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us and other
competitive disadvantages, and thus could have a material adverse impact on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a
security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources to
enhance our information security systems and could result in a disruption to
our operations.

 

As we outsource more functions,
we will become more dependent on the entities performing those functions.

 

As part of our long-term strategy, we are continually
looking for opportunities to provide essential business services in a more
cost-effective manner.  In some cases, this requires the outsourcing of
functions or parts of functions that can be performed more effectively by
external service providers.  These include certain information systems
functions such as information technology operations, and certain human resource
functions such as employee benefit plan administration.  While we believe
we conduct appropriate due diligence before entering into agreements with the
outsourcing entity, the failure of one or more entities to provide the expected
services, provide them on a timely basis or to provide them at the prices we
expect may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or
financial condition.

 

14












Table of
Contents

 

We are
controlled by the Lauder family.  As a result of their control of us, the
Lauder family has the ability to prevent or cause a change in control or
approve, prevent or influence certain actions by us.

 

As of August 13, 2010, members of the Lauder
family beneficially own, directly or indirectly, shares of Class A Common
Stock (with one vote per share) and Class B Common Stock (with 10 votes
per share) having approximately 87.1% of the outstanding voting power of the
Common Stock.  In addition, there are six
members of the Lauder family who are employees, including four who are members
of our Board of Directors.  As a result
of the stock ownership and their positions at the Company, the Lauder family
has the ability to exercise significant control and influence over our
business, including, without limitation, all matters requiring stockholder
approval, including the election of directors, amendments to the certificate of
incorporation and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other
sale of our Company or its assets, for the foreseeable future.

 

We are a “controlled
company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a
result, are relying on exemptions from certain corporate governance
requirements that are designed to provide protection to stockholders of
companies that are not “controlled companies.”

 

The Lauder family and their related entities own more
than 50% of the total voting power of our common shares and, as a result, we
are a “controlled company” under the New York Stock Exchange corporate
governance standards.  As a controlled
company, we are exempt under the New York Stock Exchange standards from the
obligation to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance
requirements, including the requirements:

 

·                  that
a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors;

·                  that we have a nominating committee that is composed entirely of
independent directors with a written charter addressing  the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and

·                  that
we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent
directors with a written charter addressing  the
committee’s purpose and responsibilities.

 

While we have voluntarily caused our Board to have a
majority of independent directors and the written charters of our Nominating
and Board Affairs Committee and the Compensation Committee to have the required
provisions, we are not requiring our Nominating and Board Affairs Committee and
Compensation Committee to be comprised solely of independent directors.
 As a result of our use of the “controlled company” exemptions, investors
will not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that
are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance
requirements.

 

Item 1B