 - "Risk Factors” is hereby incorporated by reference.ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORSInvesting in our securities involves risks. We may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC.Our Strategic Portfolio Transactions, Including the Planned Sales of Our Network Power Systems Business and Our Power Generation, Motors and Drives Businesses, as Well as the Planned Acquisition of Pentair's Valves & Controls Business, May Not Be Completed Within the Currently Contemplated Time Frame, With the Expected Terms or Costs, and May Not Achieve the Intended BenefitsWe make no assurance regarding the terms, timing, costs or benefits anticipated from the strategic portfolio transactions. Unforeseen developments, including possible delays in obtaining various tax, regulatory and other approvals, could delay the proposed transactions, or cause them to occur on terms and conditions that are less favorable, or at a higher cost, than expected. Further, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial or other benefits of the strategic portfolio transactions. Moreover, after the transactions are completed, the Company will be smaller and less diversified, with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could adversely affect our business.We Operate in Businesses That Are Subject to Competitive Pressures That Could Affect Prices or Demand for Our ProductsOur businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive and potentially volatile, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. Our businesses are largely dependent on the current and future business environment, including capital and consumer spending. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high-quality products at the best relevant global cost. Various companies compete with us in one or more product lines and the 8number of competitors varies by product line. Some of our competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than our Company and we also compete with many smaller companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting our sales or profit margins, and/or resulting in a loss of market share. Our Operating Results Depend in Part on Continued Successful Research, Development and Marketing of New and/or Improved Products and Services, and There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Successfully Introduce New Products and ServicesThe success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring new products and services to market.If We Are Unable to Defend or Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights the Company's Competitive Position Could Be Adversely AffectedThe Company's intellectual property rights are important to its business and include numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other confidential information. This intellectual property may be subject to challenge, infringement, invalidation or circumvention by third parties. Despite extensive security measures, our intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation through unauthorized access of our information technology systems, employee theft, or other acts of industrial espionage. Should the Company be unable to adequately defend or protect its intellectual property, it may suffer competitive harm.We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, Which Are Subject to Domestic and Foreign Regulatory Requirements, and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating and Separating These Businesses and Therefore We May Not Realize the Anticipated BenefitsWe regularly seek growth through strategic acquisitions as well as evaluate our portfolio for potential divestitures. These activities require favorable environments to execute these transactions, and we may encounter difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions. In 2016 and in past years, we have made various acquisitions and entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations as well as separating divested businesses, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We Use a Variety of Raw Materials and Components in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our ProductsOur major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum, brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and petroleum-based chemicals. The Company seeks multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters or other events. Significant shortages or price increases could impact the prices our affected businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. While we monitor market prices of the commodities we require and attempt to reduce price exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results.9Our Operations Depend on Production Facilities Throughout the World, a Majority of Which Are Located Outside the United States and Subject to Increased Risks of Disrupted Production Causing Delays in Shipments and Loss of Customers and RevenueWe manage businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority of which are located outside the United States, and also source certain materials internationally. Emerging market sales now represent over one-third of total sales and serving a global customer base requires that we place more materials sourcing and production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain our best-cost position. Our and our suppliers’ international production facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strife, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences.Our manufacturing facilities abroad are dependent on the stability of governments and business conditions and may be more susceptible to changes in laws, policies and regulation in host countries, as well as economic and political upheaval, than our domestic facilities. These facilities face increased risks of nationalization as well as operational disruptions which could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate us. Our Substantial Sales Abroad Subject Us to Economic Risk as Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Changes in Local Government Regulations and PoliciesWe sell, manufacture, engineer and purchase products in overseas markets and a significant portion of our sales occur in mature and emerging markets outside the United States. We expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, which could adversely affect our results. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and have affected our operating results and could do so in the future. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and attempt to reduce this exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results.Recessions, Adverse Market Conditions or Downturns in End Markets We Serve May Negatively Affect Our OperationsIn the past, our operations have been exposed to significant volatility due to changes in general economic conditions, recessions or adverse conditions in the end markets we serve. In the future, similar changes could adversely impact overall sales, operating results and cash flows. Moreover, during economic downturns we may undertake more extensive restructuring actions and incur higher costs. If our restructuring actions are not sufficiently effective, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated operating results. In addition, these factors could lead to impairment charges for goodwill or other long-lived assets.Access to Funding Through the Capital Markets Is Essential to the Execution of Our Business Plan and if We Are Unable to Maintain Such Access We Could Experience a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Financial ResultsOur ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. Volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments, or affect the Company’s ability to access those markets. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, if our customers, suppliers or financial institutions are unable to access the capital markets to meet their commitments to the Company, our business could be adversely impacted.Our Business Success Depends on the Ability to Attract, Develop and Retain Key PersonnelOur success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. The failure to attract, develop and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our business and operating results. 10Security Breaches or Disruptions of Our Information Technology Systems Could Adversely Affect Our BusinessThe Company utilizes a variety of information technology systems to manage and operate its businesses.  Despite the implementation of extensive security measures (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring, and maintenance of backup and protective systems), the Company’s information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, cyberattack and other events, ranging from individual attempts to advanced persistent threats. Although considered unlikely, it is possible a security breach could result in theft of trade secrets or other intellectual property or disclosure of confidential customer, supplier or employee information. Should the Company be unable to prevent security breaches, disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, as well as expose the Company to litigation, increased cybersecurity protection costs and reputational damage.We Are Subject to Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating ResultsWe are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving intellectual property, product liability and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, significant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws.ITEM 1B