ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.




Including the impact of EOG's 2011 crude oil hedges and based on EOG's tax position, EOG's price sensitivity in 2011 for each $1.00 per barrel increase or decrease in wellhead crude oil and condensate price, combined with the related change in natural gas liquids price, is approximately $26 million for net income and $38 million for cash flows from operating activities.  Including the impact of EOG's 2011 natural gas hedges, based on EOG's tax position and the portion of EOG's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2011 for which prices have not been determined under long-term marketing contracts, EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf increase or decrease in wellhead natural gas price is approximately $19 million for net income and $28 million for cash flows from opera
ting activities.  For information regarding EOG's crude oil and natural gas hedge positions as of December 31, 2010, see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.




Risk Management.  EOG engages in price risk management activities from time to time.  These activities are intended to manage EOG's exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas.  EOG utilizes financial commodity derivative instruments, primarily collar, price swap and basis swap contracts, as a means to manage this price risk.  See Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition to financial transactions, EOG is a party to various physical commodity contracts for the sale of hydrocarbons that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions.  Under the provisions of the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Accountin
g Standards Codification, these physical commodity contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception and, therefore, are not subject to hedge accounting or mark-to-market accounting.  The financial impact of physical commodity contracts is included in revenues at the time of settlement, which in turn affects average realized hydrocarbon prices.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at February 24, 2011, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Transactions.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2010, see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

All of EOG's crude oil and natural gas activities are subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for, and development and production of, crude oil and natural gas, including blowouts, rig and well explosions, cratering, fires and loss of well control, each of which could result in damage to life, property and/or the environment.  EOG's onshore and offshore operations are also subject to usual customary perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.  Moreover, EOG's activities are subject to governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations.  Losses and liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to EOG
 to the extent not covered by insurance.

 

 




 




  



12







  




 

Insurance is maintained by EOG against some, but not all, of these risks in accordance with what EOG believes are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that EOG believes to be prudent and commercially practicable.  Specifically, EOG maintains commercial general liability and excess liability coverage provided by third-party insurers for bodily injury or death claims resulting from an incident involving EOG's onshore or offshore operations (subject to policy terms and conditions).  Moreover, in the event an incident with respect to EOG's onshore or offshore operations results in negative environmental effects, EOG maintains operators extra expense coverage provided by third-party insurers for obligations, expenses or claims that EOG may incur from su
ch an incident, including obligations, expenses or claims in respect of seepage and pollution, cleanup and containment, evacuation expenses and control of the well (subject to policy terms and conditions).  In the specific event of a well blowout or out-of-control well resulting in negative environmental effects, such operators extra expense coverage would be EOG's primary coverage, with the commercial general liability and excess liability coverage referenced above also providing certain coverage to EOG.  With regard to offshore operations, all of EOG's offshore drilling activities are conducted on a contractual basis with independent drilling contractors and other third-party service contractors.  The indemnification and other risk allocation provisions included in such contracts are negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis and are each based on the particular circumstances of the services being provided and the anticipated operations.

 

In addition to the above-described risks, EOG's operations outside the United States are subject to certain risks, including increases in taxes and governmental royalties, changes in laws and policies governing the operations of foreign-based companies, expropriation of assets, unilateral or forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts with governmental entities and currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations.  Please refer to ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of the risks to which EOG is subject.




Texas Severance Tax Rate Reduction.  Natural gas production from qualifying Texas natural gas wells spudded or completed after August 31, 1996 is entitled to a reduced severance tax rate for the first 120 consecutive months of production.  However, the cumulative value of the tax reduction cannot exceed 50 percent of the drilling and completion costs incurred on a well-by-well basis.  For a discussion of the impact on EOG, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Operating and Other Expenses.




Executive Officers of the Registrant




The current executive officers of EOG and their names and ages (as of February 24, 2011) are as follows:








Name


Age


Position


  
  
  


Mark G. Papa


64


Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Director


  
  
  


Loren M. Leiker


57


Senior Executive Vice President, Exploration


  
  
  


Gary L. Thomas


61


Senior Executive Vice President, Operations


  
  
  


William R. Thomas


58


Senior Executive Vice President, Exploitation


  
  
  


Fredrick J. Plaeger, II


57


Senior Vice President and General Counsel


  
  
  


Timothy K. Driggers


49


Vice President and Chief Financial Officer







Mark G. Papa was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of EOG in August 1999, President and Chief Executive Officer and director in September 1998, President and Chief Operating Officer in September 1997 and President in December 1996, and was President-North America Operations from February 1994 to December 1996.  Mr. Papa joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor of EOG, in 1981.  Mr. Papa is also a director of Oil States International, Inc., an oilfield service company, where he serves on the Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees.  From July 2003 to April 2005, Mr. Papa served as a director of the general partner of Magellan Midstream Partners LP, a pipeline and terminal company, where he served as Cha
irman of the Compensation Committee and as a member of the Audit and Conflicts Committees.  Mr. Papa is EOG's principal executive officer.







  



13







  




Loren M. Leiker was elected Senior Executive Vice President, Exploration in February 2007.  He was elected Executive Vice President, Exploration in May 1998 and was subsequently named Executive Vice President, Exploration and Development in January 2000.  He was previously Senior Vice President, Exploration.  Mr. Leiker joined EOG in April 1989.




Gary L. Thomas was elected Senior Executive Vice President, Operations in February 2007.  He was elected Executive Vice President, North America Operations in May 1998 and was subsequently named Executive Vice President, Operations in May 2002.  He was previously Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Midland, Texas office.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in July 1978.




William R. Thomas was elected Senior Executive Vice President, Exploitation in February 2011.  He was elected Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Fort Worth, Texas office in June 2004 and was subsequently named Executive Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Fort Worth, Texas office in February 2007.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in January 1979.




Frederick J. Plaeger, II joined EOG as Senior Vice President and General Counsel in April 2007.  He served as Vice President and General Counsel of Burlington Resources Inc., an independent oil and natural gas exploration and production company, from June 1998 until its acquisition by ConocoPhillips in March 2006.  Mr. Plaeger engaged exclusively in leadership roles in professional legal associations from April 2006 until April 2007.




Timothy K. Driggers was elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2007.  He was elected Vice President and Controller of EOG in October 1999 and was subsequently named Vice President, Accounting and Land Administration in October 2000 and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in August 2003.  Mr. Driggers is EOG's principal financial officer.  Mr. Driggers joined EOG in October 1999.




ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors




Our business and operations are subject to many risks.  The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial.  If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained herein, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes.  Unless the context requires otherwise, "we," "us" and "our" refer to EOG Resources, Inc. an
d its subsidiaries.




A substantial or extended decline in crude oil or natural gas prices would have a material and adverse effect on us.




Prices for crude oil and natural gas fluctuate widely.  Among the factors that can cause these price fluctuations are:








·  


the level of consumer demand;








·  


supplies of crude oil and natural gas;








·  


weather conditions and changes in weather patterns;








·  


domestic and international drilling activity;








·  


the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities;








·  


worldwide economic and political conditions;








·  


the price and availability of, and demand for, competing energy sources, including liquefied natural gas, and alternative energy sources;








·  


the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation, including environmental regulations;








·  


the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including trading by commodity price speculators and others; and








·  


the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures.







Our cash flow and results of operations depend to a great extent on the prevailing prices for crude oil and natural gas.  Prolonged or substantial declines in crude oil and/or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our liquidity, the amount of cash flow we have available for our capital expenditures and other operating expenses, our ability to access the credit and capital markets and our results of operations.







  



14







  




In addition, if we expect significant sustained decreases in crude oil and natural gas prices in the future such that the future cash flow from our crude oil and natural gas properties falls below the net book value of our properties, we may be required to write down the value of our crude oil and natural gas properties.  Any such future asset impairments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock.




Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells is a high-risk activity and subjects us to a variety of risks that we cannot control.




Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells, including development wells, involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive crude oil and natural gas reservoirs.  As a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells.




Specifically, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells, and our drilling operations and those of our third-party operators may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, the cost of such operations may increase and/or our results of operations and cash flows from such operations may be impacted, as a result of a variety of factors, including:








·  


unexpected drilling conditions;








·  


title problems;








·  


pressure or irregularities in formations;








·  


equipment failures or accidents;








·  


adverse weather conditions and changes in weather patterns;








·  


compliance with, or changes in, environmental laws and regulations relating to air emissions, waste disposal and hydraulic fracturing, laws and regulations imposing conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations and other laws and regulations, such as tax laws and regulations;








·  


the availability and timely issuance of required governmental permits and licenses;








·  


the availability of, costs associated with and terms of contractual arrangements for properties, including leases, pipelines, crude oil hauling trucks and qualified drivers and related facilities and equipment to gather, process, compress, transport and market crude oil, natural gas and related commodities; and








·  


costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment and supplies, tubular materials, water resources, disposal facilities, qualified personnel and other necessary equipment, supplies and services.







Our failure to recover our investment in wells, increases in the costs of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators and/or curtailments, delays or cancellations of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Our ability to sell and deliver our crude oil and natural gas production could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to obtain adequate gathering, processing, compression and transportation services.




The sale of our crude oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities owned by third parties.  These facilities may be temporarily unavailable to us due to market conditions, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, and may not be available to us in the future on terms we consider acceptable, if at all.  Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting these facilities or the availability of these facilities, including due to our failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities on terms acceptable to us or at all, could materially and adversely affect our bu
siness and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.







  



15







  




If we fail to acquire or find sufficient additional reserves over time, our reserves and production will decline from their current levels.




The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are produced.  Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration, exploitation and development activities, acquire additional properties containing reserves or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our reserves will decline as they are produced.  Maintaining our production of crude oil and natural gas at, or increasing our production from, current levels, is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves, which could in turn impact our future cash flow and results of operations.




We incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, particularly regulations relating to environmental protection and safety, and could incur even greater costs in the future.




Our exploration, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels, as well as by the governments and regulatory agencies in the foreign countries in which we do business, and are subject to interruption or termination by governmental and regulatory authorities based on environmental or other considerations.  Moreover, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental, safety and other regulations.  Further, the regulatory environment in the oil and gas industry could change in ways that we cannot predict and that might substantially increase our costs of compliance and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and fina
ncial condition.




Specifically, as an owner or lessee and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment.  These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas.  Moreover, we are subject to the United States (U.S.) Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) rule requiring annual reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.  Changes in, or additions to, these regulations could lead to increased operating and compliance costs and, in t
urn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.




We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues.  In addition to the U.S. EPA's rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions, we are also aware of legislation proposed by U.S. lawmakers and by the Canadian federal and provincial governments to reduce GHG emissions.




Additionally, there have been various proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level.  Currently, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state level through permitting and other compliance requirements.  Any new federal regulations that may be imposed on hydraulic fracturing could result in additional permitting and disclosure requirements (such as the reporting and public disclosure of the chemical additives used in the fracturing process) and in additional operating restrictions.  In addition to the possible federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, some states and local governments have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations, including requirements rega
rding casing and cementing of wells, testing of nearby water wells, restrictions on the access to and usage of water and restrictions on the type of chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations.  Such federal and state permitting and disclosure requirements and operating restrictions and conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing.  For additional discussion regarding climate change and hydraulic fracturing, see Environmental Regulation – United States and Environmental Regulation – Canada under ITEM 1. Business – Regulation.




We will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where we operate to determine the impact on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary.  We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.







  



16







  




A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us.




A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including as a result of accidents, weather conditions, loss of gathering, processing, compression or transportation facility access or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as crude oil or natural gas prices that we deem uneconomic.  If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted, our cash flow and, in turn, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.




We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate.




Some of the properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners.  As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties.  Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects.  These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs and materially and adversel
y affect our financial condition and results of operations.




If we acquire crude oil and natural gas properties, our failure to fully identify existing and potential problems, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.




From time to time, we seek to acquire crude oil and natural gas properties.  Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is duly diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor may they permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to assess fully their deficiencies and potential.  Even when problems with a property are identified, we often may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements.  Moreover, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves (as 
discussed further below), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties.  Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates.  In addition, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations.




We have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all.




We make, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves.  We intend to finance our capital expenditures primarily through our cash flow from operations, commercial paper borrowings and borrowings under other uncommitted credit facilities and, to a lesser extent and if and as necessary, bank borrowings, borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and public and private equity and debt offerings.




Lower crude oil and natural gas prices, however, would reduce our cash flow.  Further, if the condition of the credit and capital markets materially declines, we might not be able to obtain financing on terms we consider acceptable, if at all.  The weakness and volatility in domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions in recent years may increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay and adversely affect our ability to finance our capital expenditures through equity or debt offerings or other borrowings.  Moreover, a reduction in our cash flow (for example, as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices) and the corresponding adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation
s may increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay.  In addition, a substantial increase in interest rates would decrease our net cash flows available for reinvestment.  Any of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.







  



17







  




The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us may have a material and adverse effect on us.




We have various customers for the crude oil, natural gas and related commodities that we produce as well as various other contractual counterparties, including several financial institutions and affiliates of financial institutions.  Domestic and global economic conditions, including the financial condition of financial institutions generally, have weakened in recent years and remain relatively weak.  In addition, there continues to be weakness and volatility in domestic and global financial markets relating to the credit crisis in recent years, and corresponding reaction by lenders to risk.  These conditions and factors may adversely affect the ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us from time to time and to o
therwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us, as well as their ability to access the credit and capital markets for such purposes.




Moreover, our customers and other contractual counterparties may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations to us for reasons unrelated to these conditions and factors, such as the unavailability of required facilities or equipment due to mechanical failure or market conditions.  Furthermore, if a customer is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation to purchase crude oil, natural gas or related commodities from us, we may be unable to sell such production to another customer on terms we consider acceptable, if at all, due to the geographic location of such production, the availability, proximity or capacity of transportation facilities or market or other factors and conditions.




The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.




Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we have.




We compete with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and the equipment, materials, services and employees and other contract personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) required to explore for, develop, produce and market crude oil and natural gas.  In addition, many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those we possess and have established strategic long-term positions and strong governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain 
respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights.  In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels.  We also face competition, to a lesser extent, from competing energy sources, such as liquefied natural gas imported into the U.S. from other countries, and alternative energy sources.




Reserve estimates depend on many interpretations and assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations and assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves to be materially misstated.




Estimating quantities of liquids and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves is a complex, inexact process.  It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, made by our management and our independent petroleum consultants.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves to be overstated or understated.  Moreover, the data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment o
f the viability of production under varying economic conditions.







  



18







  




To prepare estimates of our economically recoverable liquids and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from our reserves, we analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas.  We also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary.  The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, many of which factors are or may be beyond our control.  Our actual reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves most likely will vary from our estimates.  
;Any significant variance, including any significant revisions to our existing reserve estimates, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock.  For related discussion, see ITEM 2. Properties – Oil and Gas Exploration and Production – Properties and Reserves.




Weather and climate may have a significant and adverse impact on us.




Demand for crude oil and natural gas is, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts, among other things, the price we receive for the commodities we produce and, in turn, our cash flow and results of operations.  For example, relatively warm temperatures during a winter season generally result in relatively lower demand for natural gas (as less natural gas is used to heat residences and businesses) and, as a result, relatively lower prices for natural gas production.




In addition, our exploration, exploitation and development activities and equipment can be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, such as winter storms and hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged facilities and equipment.  Such extreme weather conditions could also impact other areas of our operations, including access to our drilling and production facilities for routine operations, maintenance and repairs, the installation and operation of gathering and production facilities and the availability of, and our access to, necessary third-party services, such as gathering, processing, compression and transportation services.  Such extreme weather conditions and changes in we
ather patterns may materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.




Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting fully from increases in crude oil and natural gas prices and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty risk.




We use derivative instruments (primarily financial collars, price swaps and basis swaps) to hedge the impact of fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas prices on our results of operations and cash flow.  To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to protect ourselves against commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of increases in crude oil and natural gas prices above the prices established by our hedging contracts.  In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our hedging contracts fail to perform under the contracts.




We operate in other countries and, as a result, are subject to certain political, economic and other risks.




Our operations in jurisdictions outside the U.S. are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks include, among other risks:








·  


increases in taxes and governmental royalties;








·  


changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies;








·  


loss of revenue, equipment and property as a result of expropriation, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks;








·  


unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities;








·  


difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations; and








·  


currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations.







Our international operations may also be adversely affected by U.S. laws and policies affecting foreign trade and taxation.  The realization of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.







  



19







  




We do not insure against all potential losses and could be materially and adversely affected by unexpected liabilities or unexpected levels of liability.




The exploration for, and production and transportation of, crude oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can damage or destroy wells or production facilities, result in injury or death, and damage property and the environment.  Moreover, our onshore and offshore operations are subject to customary perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.  We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable.  The occur
rence of any of these events and any costs or liabilities incurred as a result of such events, if uninsured or in excess of our insurance coverage, would reduce the funds available to us for our exploration, exploitation, development and production activities and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Our business and prospects for future success depend to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of our management team.




Our business and prospects for future success, including the successful implementation of our strategies and handling of issues integral to our future success, depend to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of our management team. The loss of any member of our management team, and our inability to attract, motivate and retain substitute management personnel with comparable experience and skills, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations.




The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar.  However, certain of our subsidiaries are located in countries other than the U.S. and have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of certain of these foreign subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates.  Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if the amount has not changed in the original 
currency.  These translations could result in changes to our results of operations from period to period.  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 8% of our net operating revenues related to operations of our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency was not the U.S. dollar.




Terrorist activities and military and other actions could materially and adversely affect us.




Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets.  The U.S. government has at times issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations.  Any such actions and the threat of such actions could materially and adversely affect us in unpredictable ways, including the disruption of energy supplies and markets, increased volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices or the possibility that the infrastructure on which we rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terrorism, and, in turn, could materially and adversely affect 
our business, financial condition and results of operations.




ITEM 1B