ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.





1












Exploration and Production




  United States and Canada Operations




EOG's operations are focused in most of the productive basins in the United States and Canada, with a current focus on crude oil and, to a lesser extent, liquids-rich natural gas plays.




At December 31, 2012, 40% of EOG's net proved reserves in the United States and Canada (on a crude oil equivalent basis) were crude oil and condensate, 19% were NGLs and 41% were natural gas.  Substantial portions of these reserves are in long-lived fields with well-established production characteristics.  EOG believes that opportunities exist to increase production through continued development in and around many of these fields and through the utilization of the applicable technologies.  EOG also maintains an active exploration program designed to extend fields and add new trends and resource plays to its already broad portfolio.  The following is a summary of significant developments during 2012 and certain 2013 plans for EOG's United States and Canada operations.




United States.  The Eagle Ford Shale, with well-defined crude oil, wet gas and dry gas trends, has proven to have the best crude oil economics of any of EOG's shale plays.  EOG was one of the first companies to recognize the potential of the Eagle Ford Shale and captured what EOG believes to be the best crude oil acreage position within the play.  With 569,000 of its 639,000 net acres within the crude oil window, EOG is the largest oil producer in the play with year-end volumes of 106 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (MBoed), net, of which 75% were crude oil and condensate volumes.  EOG's total Eagle Ford production for 2012 increased approximately 150% to 94.4 MBoed from 37.7 MBoed in 2011.




EOG has a large contiguous acreage block that enhances the economics of the play through the efficient development of crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, as well as processing plants to extract NGLs.  EOG is also an anchor shipper on the Enterprise Products Partners L.P. crude oil pipeline which began delivering crude oil from the Eagle Ford into the Texas Gulf Coast refining complex in July 2012.  EOG has established a reputation of being a low-cost operator and, by utilizing its self-sourced sand along with dedicated frac crews and other services, is able to consistently deliver the lowest cost and highest productivity of any operator, further enhancing the economics of the play.  EOG drilled 352 net wells in 2012 in this play and, in 2013, plans to drill approximately 400 net wells with a 26-rig program.




During 2012, EOG continued development of its liquids-rich Barnett Shale Combo play in the Fort Worth Basin.  EOG drilled 190 net Barnett Combo wells and continued to upgrade the quality of its acreage position and add potential drilling locations in the liquids-rich Combo core area.  In 2012, the average net daily total production in the Barnett Shale averaged approximately 38.8 thousand barrels per day (MBbld) of crude oil and condensate and NGLs and approximately 368 million cubic feet per day (MMcfd) of natural gas.  For 2013, EOG will continue to be active in this play with plans to drill an additional 130 net Barnett Shale Combo wells.  With a large acreage position of approximately 430,000 net acres in the Barnett Shale and a history of strong drilling results, EOG expects to continue to be an active driller in the Fort Worth Basin Barnett Shale for many years.




Also during 2012, EOG continued its strong liquids development in the Rocky Mountain area.  In the Williston Basin, where production is approximately 85% crude oil, 62 net wells were drilled in 2012.  EOG has continued its development of the Turner Sand formation in the Powder River Basin, where EOG has drilled 12 net wells, each producing liquids-rich natural gas.  Net average production for the entire Rocky Mountain area for 2012 was 51.8 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs, an increase of 11% over the prior year.  Natural gas production decreased 7% compared to 2011 levels as EOG reduced its activity in the Uinta Basin, drilling 18 net wells during 2012, consistent with its strategy to de-emphasize natural gas drilling.  EOG holds approximately 1.3 million net acres in the Rocky Mountain area and expects to drill 51 net wells in 2013.




In 2012, EOG drilled and participated in 105 net wells in the Permian Basin to develop its liquids-rich Leonard-Avalon, Bone Spring and Wolfcamp plays.  EOG is well positioned with approximately 73,000 net acres in the Leonard-Avalon Shale and Bone Spring, and 114,000 net acres in the Wolfcamp Shale, all within the Delaware Basin.  Additionally, EOG has approximately 133,000 net acres in the Wolfcamp Shale within the Midland Basin.  Net production for 2012 averaged 16.5 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs and 44 MMcfd of natural gas.  After divestitures in 2012, EOG holds approximately 450,000 net acres throughout the Permian Basin.  In 2013, EOG plans to continue the expansion and development of the Leonard-Avalon, Bone Spring and Wolfcamp plays by drilling 63 net wells.


2












In the South Texas area, EOG drilled 34 net wells in 2012.  Net production during 2012 averaged 5.2 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs and 116 MMcfd of natural gas.  EOG's activity was focused in San Patricio, Nueces, Brooks, Kenedy and Kleberg Counties, where EOG will continue to exploit the liquids-rich Frio and Vicksburg sands utilizing vertical and horizontal well applications.




                        In December 2012, EOG entered into a joint venture with respect to the King Ranch (Ranch) in South Texas.  EOG has assumed the operatorship and has acquired the right to explore on approximately 364,000 gross acres.  EOG has also assumed a 50% working interest in the production on the Ranch as well as 50% of the plugging and abandonment cost liabilities and decommissioning cost liabilities for existing wells and certain facilities on the Ranch.  Current net production from the Ranch is approximately 1.1 MBbld of crude oil and condensate, 1.5 MBbld of NGLs and 28 MMcfd of natural gas.  The exploration potential of the Ranch includes the Frio Anomalina and Vicksburg trends.




In the Upper Gulf Coast region, EOG drilled 19 net wells, and net production averaged 191 MMcfd of natural gas and 0.4 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs in 2012.  The Haynesville and Bossier Shale plays located near the Texas-Louisiana border continue to be core natural gas assets.  EOG controls 160,000 net acres, all within the highly productive areas of these plays.  Due to low natural gas prices, EOG plans to defer drilling in the Haynesville until natural gas economics support the activity.  EOG holds a total of approximately 485,000 net acres in the Upper Gulf Coast region and plans to drill 15 net wells targeting crude oil projects during 2013.




In 2012, EOG continued to expand its activities in the Mid-Continent area with continued growth and extension of its Western Anadarko Basin core area.  For the year, EOG averaged net production of 8.0 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs and 44 MMcfd of natural gas.  Total liquids volumes increased 14% in 2012 compared to 2011.  In 2012, EOG continued its successful horizontal exploitation of the Cleveland and Marmaton sandstones, drilling 35 net wells.  Since 2002, EOG has drilled over 270 net wells in these plays and holds approximately 125,000 net acres throughout the trend.  In 2013, approximately 35 net wells are planned in order to further exploit these liquids-rich plays.




During the first half of 2012, EOG continued the development of its Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale asset, completing 19 net wells.  EOG reduced its operations in the second half of 2012, dropping from 3 drilling rigs to 1 drilling rig, with activities focused on its Bradford County, Pennsylvania, acreage.  In 2012, net gas production averaged approximately 43 MMcfd, an increase of 24% from 2011.  EOG plans to drill 4 net wells in Bradford County during 2013 for acreage retention.  EOG holds approximately 170,000 net acres in the Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale play.




At December 31, 2012, EOG held approximately 3.0 million net undeveloped acres in the United States.




During 2012, EOG continued the expansion of its gathering and processing activities in the Barnett Shale in North Texas, the Bakken and Three Forks plays in North Dakota and the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas.  EOG-owned natural gas processing capacity at December 31, 2012, in the Barnett Shale and Eagle Ford Shale was 120 MMcfd and 250 MMcfd, respectively.




In April 2012, a newly-constructed crude oil unloading facility in St. James, Louisiana, became operational. Owned by EOG and NuStar Energy L.P., this facility provides access to one of the key premium markets in the U.S., where sales are based upon the Light Louisiana Sweet (LLS) crude oil index.  The St. James facility can accommodate multiple trains at a single time and has a capacity of approximately 120 MBbld.  EOG's share of that capacity is 100 MBbld.




Additionally, in support of its operations in the Williston Basin, EOG continued to increase the utilization of its crude oil loading facility near Stanley, North Dakota, to transport its crude oil production and crude oil purchased from third-party producers.  EOG loaded 322 unit trains (each unit train typically consists of 100 cars and has a total aggregate capacity of approximately 70,000 barrels of crude oil) with crude oil for transport to Stroud, Oklahoma, St. James, Louisiana, and certain other destinations in the U.S.





3












In Stroud, Oklahoma, EOG owns a crude oil unloading facility and a pipeline to transport crude oil to the Cushing, Oklahoma, trading hub.  These facilities have the capacity to unload approximately 90 MBbld of crude oil.




In the South Texas Eagle Ford, EOG continued to use its crude oil loading facility in Harwood, Texas.  At this facility, crude oil is loaded onto unit trains of approximately 70 cars each, with aggregate capacity of approximately 45,000 barrels per train, and shipped to destinations on the U.S. Gulf Coast.  During 2012, a total of 98 rail shipments were made from the Harwood facility.




In support of its Permian Basin operations, EOG commenced shipments from its Barnhart, Texas, crude oil loading facility in mid-2012 and continues to increase shipments from that region to markets on the U.S. Gulf Coast. During 2012, EOG shipped 24 unit trains from this facility.  Each unit train currently consists of approximately 70 cars each, with aggregate capacity of approximately 45,000 barrels per train.




EOG believes that its crude-by-rail facilities provide a distinct competitive advantage, giving it the ability to direct its crude oil shipments via rail car to the most favorable markets.




Since 2008, EOG has been operating its own sand mine and sand processing plant located in Hood County, Texas, helping to fulfill EOG's sand needs for its well completion operations in the Barnett Shale Combo play.




At its second Hood County sand processing plant that was purchased in 2011, EOG continued to process raw EOG-owned sand from Wisconsin.  After final processing at the Hood County facility, the sand is being utilized in completion operations in several key EOG plays.




EOG also increased production of processed sand at its new state-of-the-art Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, sand plant.  The plant processes sand from multiple nearby EOG-owned sand mines.  The first unit train of processed sand was dispatched from Chippewa Falls in January 2012.  During 2012, EOG shipped 70 sand unit trains of approximately 100 cars each to a new EOG sand storage facility in Refugio, Texas.




EOG also installed and commissioned a resin coating plant at the Refugio sand storage facility where sand can also be coated for added strength.  From Refugio, the sand is shipped primarily to the South Texas Eagle Ford Shale. EOG also ships its processed sand to other plays, including the North Dakota Bakken and the Permian Basin.




Canada.  EOG conducts operations in Canada through its wholly-owned subsidiary, EOG Resources Canada Inc. (EOGRC), from its offices in Calgary, Alberta.  During 2012, EOGRC continued its focus on horizontal crude oil growth, mainly through its development of the shallow Spearfish formation in southwest Manitoba.  Other drilling activity was directed to acreage retention in its bigger target horizontal natural gas play in the Horn River Basin of British Columbia.  EOG's entire acreage position in the Horn River Basin has now been converted from drilling licenses to production leases that will remain intact for a period of ten years from the conversion point.  Of the 135 net wells EOGRC drilled or participated in during 2012, 124 were horizontal wells in oil plays, 7 were horizontal natural gas acreage retention wells and the remaining 4 were vertical wells.  In 2013, EOGRC will continue to develop its Manitoba property and identify new targets in Alberta.  In 2012, net crude oil and condensate and NGL production was 7.8 MBbld and net natural gas production was 95 MMcfd.




At December 31, 2012, EOGRC held approximately 638,000 net undeveloped acres in Canada.




EOGRC owned a 30% interest in both the planned liquefied natural gas export terminal to be located near the Port of Kitimat, British Columbia (Kitimat LNG Terminal) and the proposed Pacific Trail Pipelines (PTP) which is intended to link Western Canada's natural gas producing regions to the Kitimat LNG Terminal.  In December 2012, EOGRC signed a purchase and sale agreement for the sale of its entire interest in the Kitimat LNG Terminal and PTP, as well as approximately 28,500 undeveloped net acres in the Horn River Basin, to Chevron Canada Limited.  The transaction closed in February  2013.





4












  Operations Outside the United States and Canada




EOG has operations offshore Trinidad, in the U.K. North Sea and East Irish Sea, in the China Sichuan Basin and in the Neuquén Basin of Argentina, and is evaluating additional exploration, development and exploitation opportunities in these and other select international areas.




Trinidad.  EOG, through several of its subsidiaries, including EOG Resources Trinidad Limited,








·


holds an 80% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the South East Coast Consortium (SECC) Block offshore Trinidad, except in the Deep Ibis area in which EOG's working interest decreased as a result of a third-party farm-out agreement;









·


holds an 80% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the Pelican Field and its related facilities;









·


holds a 50% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the EMZ Area offshore Trinidad;









·


holds a 100% working interest in a production sharing contract with the Government of Trinidad and Tobago for each of the Modified U(a) Block, Modified U(b) Block and Block 4(a);









·


owns a 12% equity interest in an anhydrous ammonia plant in Point Lisas, Trinidad, that is owned and operated by Caribbean Nitrogen Company Limited; and









·


owns a 10% equity interest in an anhydrous ammonia plant in Point Lisas, Trinidad, that is owned and operated by Nitrogen (2000) Unlimited.








Several fields in the SECC Block, Modified U(a) Block and Modified U(b) Block, as well as the Pelican Field, have been developed and are producing natural gas and crude oil and condensate.  Production from both the Toucan Field in Block 4(a) and the adjacent EMZ Area began in February 2012 to supply natural gas under a contract with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago (NGC).




During the fourth quarter of 2012, EOG began drilling an exploratory well in the Modified U(a) Block which was successful.  This well and three additional development wells to be drilled in 2013 will be completed during the first half of 2013.




Natural gas from EOG's Trinidad operations currently is sold to NGC or its subsidiary.  In 2013, certain agreements with NGC require EOG's Trinidad operations to deliver approximately 470 MMcfd (360 MMcfd, net) of natural gas, under current economic conditions.  EOG intends to fulfill these natural gas delivery obligations by using production from existing proved reserves.  Crude oil and condensate from EOG's Trinidad operations currently is sold to the Petroleum Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited.




In 2012, EOG's average net production from Trinidad was 378 MMcfd of natural gas and 1.5 MBbld of crude oil and condensate.




At December 31, 2012, EOG held approximately 39,000 net undeveloped acres in Trinidad.




United Kingdom.  EOG's subsidiary, EOG Resources United Kingdom Limited (EOGUK), owns a 25% non-operating working interest in a portion of Block 49/16a, located in the Southern Gas Basin of the North Sea.  During 2012, production continued from the Valkyrie field in this block.




EOGUK also owns a 30% non-operating working interest in a portion of Blocks 53/1 and 53/2.  These blocks are also located in the Southern Gas Basin of the North Sea.




In 2006, EOGUK participated in the drilling and successful testing of the Columbus prospect in the Central North Sea Block 23/16f.  EOG has a 25% non-operating working interest in this block.  A successful Columbus natural gas prospect appraisal well was drilled during the third quarter of 2007.  The field operator submitted a revised field development plan to the U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) in the third quarter of 2012 with approval expected in the second quarter of 2013.  The project participants are currently negotiating commercial agreements.





5












In 2007, EOGUK was awarded a license for two blocks in the East Irish Sea – Blocks 110/7b and 110/12a.  In 2009, EOGUK drilled a successful exploratory well in its East Irish Sea Block 110/12a.  Well 110/12-6, in which EOGUK has a 100% working interest, was an oil discovery and was designated the Conwy field.  In 2010, EOGUK added an adjoining field in its East Irish Sea block, designated Corfe, to its overall development plans.  The field development plans for the Conwy/Corfe project were approved by the DECC in March 2012.  The production platform was installed during the second quarter of 2012 and the pipelines were installed in the fourth quarter of 2012.   EOG expects to begin processing facility installation during the first half of 2013.  The Conwy development drilling program is expected to commence during the second quarter of 2013, with initial production expected in the fourth quarter of 2013.




In 2009, EOGUK was awarded a license for Block 21/12b in the Central North Sea where it expects to drill an exploratory well to test a crude oil prospect in late 2013.  EOGUK has 100% interest in this block.




In 2012, production averaged 2 MMcfd of natural gas, net, in the United Kingdom.




At December 31, 2012, EOG held approximately 95,000 net undeveloped acres in the United Kingdom.




China.  In July 2008, EOG acquired rights from ConocoPhillips in a Petroleum Contract covering the Chuanzhong Block exploration area in the Sichuan Basin, Sichuan Province, China.  In October 2008, EOG obtained the rights to shallower zones on the acreage acquired.




In 2012, production averaged 8 MMcfd of natural gas, net, in China.




At December 31, 2012, EOG held approximately 131,000 net developed acres in China.




Argentina. In 2011, EOG signed two exploration contracts and one farm-in agreement covering approximately 80,000 net acres in the Neuquén Basin in Neuquén Province, Argentina.  During the first half of 2012, EOG participated in the drilling and completion of a vertical well in the Bajo del Toro Block.  In the first half of 2012, EOG drilled a well to monitor future well completions in the Aguada del Chivato Block and drilled and completed a horizontal well in this block.  Both the horizontal and vertical wells that were completed are under evaluation.  During the first quarter of 2013, EOG plans to complete the monitoring well in the Aguada del Chivato Block.




Other International.  EOG continues to evaluate other select crude oil and natural gas opportunities outside the United States and Canada primarily by pursuing exploitation opportunities in countries where indigenous crude oil and natural gas reserves have been identified.




Marketing




In 2012, EOG's wellhead crude oil and condensate production was sold into local markets or transported either by pipeline, truck or EOG's crude-by-rail assets to downstream markets.  In each case, the price received was based on market prices at that specific sales point or based on the price index applicable for that location.  Major sales points included Clearbrook, Minnesota, Cushing, Oklahoma, St. James, Louisiana, and the U.S. Gulf Coast.  In 2013, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same.




In 2012, EOG processed certain of its natural gas production, either at EOG-owned plants or at third-party plants, extracting NGLs.  NGLs were sold at prevailing market prices.  In 2013, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same.




In 2012, EOG's United States and Canada wellhead natural gas production was sold into local markets or transported by pipeline to downstream markets.  Pricing, based on the spot market and long-term natural gas contracts, was at prevailing market prices.  In 2013, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same.




In 2012, a large majority of the wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad were sold under contracts with prices which were either wholly or partially dependent on Caribbean ammonia index prices and/or methanol prices.  The remaining volumes were sold under a contract at prices partially dependent on United States Henry Hub market prices.  The pricing mechanisms for these contracts in Trinidad are expected to remain the same in 2013.





6












In 2012, all wellhead natural gas volumes from the United Kingdom were sold on the spot market.  The 2013 marketing strategy for wellhead natural gas volumes from the United Kingdom is expected to remain the same. EOG is currently investigating possible marketing opportunities for its wellhead crude oil due to the anticipated start of EOG's crude oil production in the United Kingdom in the fourth quarter of 2013.




In 2012, all of the wellhead natural gas volumes from China were sold under a contract with prices based on the purchaser's pipeline sales prices to various local market segments.  The pricing mechanism for the contract in China is expected to remain the same in 2013.




In certain instances, EOG purchases and sells third-party crude oil and natural gas in order to balance firm transportation capacity with production in certain areas and to utilize excess capacity at EOG-owned facilities.




During 2012, a single purchaser accounted for 19.8% of EOG's total wellhead crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas revenues and gathering, processing and marketing revenues.  EOG does not believe that the loss of any single purchaser would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.





7












Wellhead Volumes and Prices




The following table sets forth certain information regarding EOG's wellhead volumes of, and average prices for, crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas. The table also presents crude oil equivalent volumes which are determined using the ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or NGLs to 6.0 Mcf of natural gas for each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.







Year Ended December 31


 


2012


 


2011


 


2010


 





Crude Oil and Condensate Volumes (MBbld) (1)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


United States:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


 


Eagle Ford


 


72.3


 


30.2


 


4.1


 





 


 


Barnett


 


13.0


 


15.2


 


6.8


 





 


 


Other


 


64.0


 


56.6


 


52.3


 





 


United States


 


149.3


 


102.0


 


63.2


 





 


Canada


 


7.0


 


7.9


 


6.7


 





 


Trinidad


 


1.5


 


3.4


 


4.7


 





 


Other International (2)


 


0.1


 


0.1


 


0.1


 





 


 


 


Total


 


157.9


 


113.4


 


74.7


 





Natural Gas Liquids Volumes (MBbld) (1)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


United States:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


 


Eagle Ford


 


11.2


 


3.9


 


0.2


 





 


 


Barnett


 


25.8


 


22.6


 


16.3


 





 


 


Other


 


18.1


 


15.0


 


13.0


 





 


United States


 


55.1


 


41.5


 


29.5


 





 


Canada


 


0.8


 


0.9


 


0.9


 





 


 


 


Total


 


55.9


 


42.4


 


30.4


 





Natural Gas Volumes (MMcfd) (1)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


United States:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


 


Eagle Ford


 


65


 


21


 


4


 





 


 


Barnett


 


368


 


403


 


404


 





 


 


Other


 


601


 


689


 


725


 





 


United States


 


1,034


 


1,113


 


1,133


 





 


Canada


 


95


 


132


 


200


 





 


Trinidad


 


378


 


344


 


341


 





 


Other International (2)


 


9


 


13


 


14


 





 


 


 


Total


 


1,516


 


1,602


 


1,688


 





Crude Oil Equivalent Volumes (MBoed) (3)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


United States:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


 


Eagle Ford


 


94.4


 


37.7


 


5.0


 





 


 


Barnett


 


100.1


 


105.0


 


90.5


 





 


 


Other


 


182.1


 


186.4


 


186.0


 





 


United States


 


376.6


 


329.1


 


281.5


 





 


Canada


 


23.6


 


30.7


 


40.9


 





 


Trinidad


 


64.5


 


60.7


 


61.5


 





 


Other International (2)


 


1.7


 


2.2


 


2.5


 





 


 


 


Total


 


466.4


 


422.7


 


386.4


 





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





Total MMBoe (3)


 


170.7


 


154.3


 


141.1


 








8


















Year Ended December 31


 


2012


 


2011


 


2010


 





Average Crude Oil and Condensate Prices ($/Bbl) (4)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


United States


$


98.38


$


92.92


$


74.88


 





 


Canada


 


86.08


 


91.92


 


72.66


 





 


Trinidad


 


92.26


 


90.62


 


68.80


 





 


Other International (2)


 


89.57


 


100.11


 


73.11


 





 


 


Composite


 


97.77


 


92.79


 


74.29


 





Average Natural Gas Liquids Prices ($/Bbl) (4)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


United States


$


35.41


$


50.37


$


41.68


 





 


Canada


 


44.13


 


52.69


 


43.40


 





 


 


Composite


 


35.54


 


50.41


 


41.73


 





Average Natural Gas Prices ($/Mcf) (4)


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





 


United States


$


2.51


$


3.92


$


4.30


 





 


Canada


 


2.49


 


3.71


 


3.91


 





 


Trinidad


 


3.72


 


3.53


 


2.65


 





 


Other International (2)


 


5.71


 


5.62


 


4.90


 





 


 


Composite


 


2.83


 


3.83


 


3.93


 





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 







(1)
Thousand barrels per day or million cubic feet per day, as applicable.




(2)     Other International includes EOG's United Kingdom, China and Argentina operations.




(3)
Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day or million barrels of oil equivalent, as applicable; includes crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas.  MMBoe is calculated by multiplying the MBoed amount by the number of days in the period and then dividing that amount by one thousand.







(4)
Dollars per barrel or per thousand cubic feet, as applicable.  Excludes the impact of financial commodity derivative instruments (see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements).







Competition




EOG competes with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and the equipment, materials, services and employees and other contract personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) required to explore for, develop, produce and market crude oil and natural gas.  Moreover, many of EOG's competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those EOG possesses and have established strategic long-term positions and strong governmental relationships in countries in which EOG may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, EOG may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights.  In addition, many of EOG's larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels.  EOG also faces competition, to a lesser extent, from competing energy sources, such as alternative energy sources.




Regulation




United States Regulation of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production.  Crude oil and natural gas production operations are subject to various types of regulation, including regulation in the United States by federal and state agencies.




United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion.  In addition, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations applicable to the oil and gas industry.  Such rules and regulations, among other things, require permits for the drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural gas through restrictions on flaring, require drilling bonds and regulate the calculation and disbursement of royalty payments, production taxes and ad valorem taxes.








9












A substantial portion of EOG's oil and gas leases in Utah, New Mexico, Wyoming and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) or, in the case of offshore leases, by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), all federal agencies.  Operations conducted by EOG on federal oil and gas leases must comply with numerous additional statutory and regulatory restrictions.  Certain operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate permits issued by the BLM or the BSEE.




BLM and BOEM leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring compliance with detailed regulations and, in the case of offshore leases, orders pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (which are subject to change by the BOEM or BSEE).  Under certain circumstances, the BLM, BOEM or the BSEE may require operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated.  Any such suspension or termination could materially and adversely affect EOG's interests.




The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978.  These statutes are administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Effective January 1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by EOG of its own production.  All other sales of natural gas by EOG, such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, remain jurisdictional sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible terms and conditions.  Consequently, all of EOG's sales of natural gas currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions.  EOG's jurisdictional sales, however, are subject to the future possibility of greater federal oversight, including the possibility that the FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive conditions on such sales.  Conversely, sales of crude oil and condensate and NGLs by EOG are made at unregulated market prices.




EOG owns certain gathering and/or processing facilities in the Barnett Shale in North Texas, the Bakken and Three Forks plays in North Dakota, and the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas.  State regulation of gathering and processing facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements, but does not generally entail rate regulation.  EOG's gathering and processing operations could be materially and adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services.




EOG's gathering and processing operations also may be, or become, subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of such facilities.  Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and/or adopted from time to time.  Although EOG cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation might have on its operations and financial condition, the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.




Proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the state legislatures, the FERC and federal and state regulatory commissions and courts.  EOG cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become effective.  It should also be noted that the oil and gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the approach currently being followed by such legislative bodies and regulatory agencies and courts will continue indefinitely.




Canadian Regulation of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production.  The oil and gas industry in Canada is subject to extensive controls and regulations imposed by various levels of government.  These regulatory authorities may impose regulations on or otherwise intervene in the oil and gas industry with respect to taxes and factors affecting prices, transportation rates, the exportation of the commodity and, possibly, expropriation or cancellation of contract rights.  Such regulations may be changed from time to time in response to economic, political or other factors.  The implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and gas industry could reduce demand for these commodities or increase EOG's costs and, therefore, may have a material adverse impact on EOG's operations and financial condition.




It is not expected that any of these controls or regulations will affect EOG's operations in a manner materially different than they would affect other oil and gas companies of similar size; however, EOG is unable to predict what additional legislation or amendments may be enacted or how such additional legislation or amendments may affect EOG's operations and financial condition.





10












In addition, each province has regulations that govern land tenure, royalties, production rates and other matters.  The royalty system in Canada is a significant factor in the profitability of crude oil and natural gas production.  Royalties payable on production from freehold lands are determined by negotiations between the mineral owner and the lessee, although production from such lands is also subject to certain provincial taxes and royalties.  Royalties payable on lands that the government has an interest in are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, and the rate of royalties payable generally depends, in part, on prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date and the type and quality of the petroleum product produced.  From time to time, the federal and provincial governments of Canada have also established incentive programs such as royalty rate reductions, royalty holidays and tax credits for the purpose of encouraging oil and gas exploration or enhanced recovery projects.  These incentives generally have the effect of increasing EOG's revenues, earnings and cash flow.




Environmental Regulation - United States.  EOG is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment.  These laws and regulations affect EOG's operations and costs as a result of their effect on crude oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements.




In addition, EOG has acquired certain oil and gas properties from third parties whose actions with respect to the management and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under EOG's control.  Under environmental laws and regulations, EOG could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators.  EOG also could incur costs related to the clean-up of third-party sites to which it sent regulated substances for disposal or to which it sent equipment for cleaning, and for damages to natural resources or other claims related to releases of regulated substances at such third-party sites.  In addition, EOG could be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for oil and gas properties in which EOG previously owned or currently owns an interest, but was or is not the operator.  Moreover, EOG is subject to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) rule requiring annual reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and may in the future, as discussed further below, be subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing.




Compliance with environmental laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition or results of operations.  It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts (whether for environmental control facilities or otherwise) that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with such laws and regulations.  However, given that such laws and regulations are subject to change, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the ultimate effect on EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.




Climate Change - United States.  Local, state, national and international regulatory bodies have been increasingly focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues in recent years.  In addition to the U.S. EPA's rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions, recent U.S. EPA rulemaking may result in the regulation of GHGs as pollutants under the federal Clean Air Act.  EOG supports efforts to understand and address the contribution of human activities to global climate change through the application of sound scientific research and analysis.  Moreover, EOG believes that its strategy to reduce GHG emissions throughout its operations is in the best interest of the environment and is a generally good business practice.




EOG has developed a system that is utilized in calculating GHG emissions from its operating facilities.  This emissions management system calculates emissions based on recognized regulatory methodologies, where applicable, and on commonly accepted engineering practices.  EOG is now reporting GHG emissions for facilities covered under the U.S. EPA's Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule published in October 2009.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties regarding climate change and GHG emissions, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.





11












Hydraulic Fracturing - United States.  Most onshore crude oil and natural gas wells drilled by EOG are completed and stimulated through the use of hydraulic fracturing.  Hydraulic fracturing technology, which has been used by the oil and gas industry for more than 60 years and is constantly being enhanced, enables EOG to produce crude oil and natural gas from formations that would otherwise not be recovered.  Specifically, hydraulic fracturing is a process in which pressurized fluid is pumped into underground formations to create tiny fractures or spaces that allow crude oil and natural gas to flow from the reservoir into the well so that it can be brought to the surface.  Hydraulic fracturing generally takes place thousands of feet underground, a considerable distance below any drinking water aquifers, and there are impermeable layers of rock between the area fractured and the water aquifers.  The makeup of the fluid used in the hydraulic fracturing process is typically more than 99% water and sand, and less than 1% of highly diluted chemical additives; lists of the chemical additives most typically used in fracturing fluids are available to the public via internet websites and in other publications sponsored by industry trade associations and through state agencies in those states that require the reporting of the components of fracturing fluids.  While the majority of the sand remains underground to hold open the fractures, a significant percentage of the water and chemical additives flow back and are then either reused or safely disposed of at sites that are approved and permitted by the appropriate regulatory authorities.  EOG regularly conducts audits of these disposal facilities to monitor compliance with all applicable regulations.




Currently, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state and local level through permitting and other compliance requirements.  However, there have been various proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level.  Any new federal regulations that may be imposed on hydraulic fracturing could result in additional permitting and disclosure requirements (such as the reporting and public disclosure of the chemical additives used in the fracturing process) and in additional operating restrictions.  In April 2012, the U.S. EPA issued regulations specifically applicable to the oil and gas industry that will require operators to significantly reduce volatile organic compounds (VOC) emissions from natural gas wells that are hydraulically fractured through the use of "green completions" to capture natural gas that would otherwise escape into the air.  The U.S. EPA also issued regulations that establish standards for VOC emissions from several types of equipment, including storage tanks, compressors, dehydrators, and valves and sweetening units at gas processing plants.  In addition to these federal regulations, some state and local governments have imposed or have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations, including requirements regarding casing and cementing of wells; testing of nearby water wells; restrictions on access to, and usage of, water; disclosure of the chemical additives used in hydraulic fracturing operations; and restrictions on the type of chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations.  Such federal, state and local permitting and disclosure requirements and operating restrictions and conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing.




EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws or regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing in the United States, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws and regulations (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.




Environmental Regulation - Canada.  All phases of the oil and gas industry in Canada are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian federal, provincial and municipal laws and regulations.  Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment.  These laws and regulations also require that facility sites and other properties associated with EOG's operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities.  In addition, EOG could be held responsible for oil and gas properties in which EOG owns an interest but is not the operator.




These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and the clear trend is to place increasingly stringent limitations on activities that may affect the environment.  Compliance with such laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition or results of operations.  It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts (whether for environmental control facilities or otherwise) that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with such laws and regulations.  However, given that such laws and regulations are subject to change, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the ultimate effect on EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.





12












As discussed above, local, provincial, national and international regulatory bodies have been increasingly focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues in recent years.  The Canadian federal government has indicated an intention to work with the United States to regulate industrial emissions of GHG and air pollutants from a broad range of industrial sectors.  In addition, regulation of GHG emissions in Canada takes place at the provincial and municipal level.  For example, the governments of Alberta and British Columbia each regulate GHG emissions and the Government of Manitoba is currently considering the creation of a cap-and-trade system to reduce GHG emissions in Manitoba.  Canada was an original signatory to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (also known as the Kyoto Protocol), but Canada withdrew from the Kyoto Protocol, effective December 2012.




In Canada, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the provincial and local levels through permitting and other compliance requirements.  Some provinces and local governments have imposed or have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations, including requirements regarding casing and cementing of wells; restrictions on access to and usage of water; disclosure of the chemical additives used in hydraulic fracturing operations; and restrictions on the type of chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations.  Such provincial and local requirements, restrictions and conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws or regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing in Canada, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws and regulations (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.




Other International Regulation.  EOG's exploration and production operations outside the United States and Canada are subject to various types of regulations imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which EOG's operations are conducted, and may affect EOG's operations and costs of compliance within that country.  EOG currently has operations in Trinidad, the United Kingdom, China and Argentina.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, including those regarding climate change and hydraulic fracturing, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.  EOG will continue to review the risks to its business and operations associated with all environmental matters, including climate change and hydraulic fracturing.  In addition, EOG will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where it operates to determine the impact on its operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary.




Other Regulation.  EOG has sand mining and processing operations in Texas and Wisconsin, which support EOG's exploration and development operations.  EOG's sand mining operations are subject to regulation by the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (in respect of safety and health matters) and by state agencies (in respect of air permitting and other environmental matters).  The information concerning mine safety violations and other regulatory matters required by Section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Item 104 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.104) is included in Exhibit 95 to this report.




Other Matters




Energy Prices.  EOG is a crude oil and natural gas producer and is impacted by changes in prices for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas.  Crude oil and condensate and NGLs production comprised a larger portion of EOG's production mix in 2012 than in prior years and is expected to comprise an even larger portion in 2013.  Average crude oil and condensate prices received by EOG for production in the United States and Canada increased by 5% in 2012, 24% in 2011 and 37% in 2010, each as compared to the immediately preceding year.  During the last three years, average United States and Canada wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated, at times rather dramatically.  These fluctuations resulted in a 36% decrease in the average wellhead natural gas price received by EOG for production in the United States and Canada in 2012, an 8% decrease in 2011 and an increase of 13% in 2010, each as compared to the immediately preceding year.  Due to the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the availability of other energy supplies, the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers and other factors, EOG is unable to predict what changes may occur in crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices in the future.  For additional discussion regarding changes in crude oil and natural gas prices and the risks that such changes may present to EOG, see ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.





13












Including the impact of EOG's 2013 crude oil derivative contracts (exclusive of options) and based on EOG's tax position, EOG's price sensitivity in 2013 for each $1.00 per barrel increase or decrease in wellhead crude oil and condensate price, combined with the estimated change in NGLs price, is approximately $28 million for net income and $41 million for cash flows from operating activities.  Including the impact of EOG's 2013 natural gas derivative contracts and based on EOG's tax position and the portion of EOG's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2013 for which prices have not been determined under long-term marketing contracts, EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf increase or decrease in wellhead natural gas price is approximately $18 million for net income and $27 million for cash flows from operating activities.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at February 21, 2013, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Transactions.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2012, see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.




Risk Management.  EOG engages in price risk management activities from time to time.  These activities are intended to manage EOG's exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas.  EOG utilizes financial commodity derivative instruments, primarily price swap, option, swaption, collar and basis swap contracts, as a means to manage this price risk.  See Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition to financial transactions, EOG is a party to various physical commodity contracts for the sale of hydrocarbons that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions.  Under the provisions of the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Accounting Standards Codification, these physical commodity contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception and, therefore, are not subject to hedge accounting or mark-to-market accounting.  The financial impact of physical commodity contracts is included in revenues at the time of settlement, which in turn affects average realized hydrocarbon prices.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at February 21, 2013, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Transactions.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2012, see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.




All of EOG's crude oil and natural gas activities are subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for, and development and production of, crude oil and natural gas, including blowouts, rig and well explosions, cratering, fires and loss of well control, each of which could result in damage to life, property and/or the environment.  EOG's onshore and offshore operations are also subject to usual customary perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.  Moreover, EOG's activities are subject to governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations.  Losses and liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to EOG to the extent not covered by insurance.

Insurance is maintained by EOG against some, but not all, of these risks in accordance with what EOG believes are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that EOG believes to be prudent and commercially practicable.  Specifically, EOG maintains commercial general liability and excess liability coverage provided by third-party insurers for bodily injury or death claims resulting from an incident involving EOG's onshore or offshore operations (subject to policy terms and conditions).  Moreover, in the event an incident with respect to EOG's onshore or offshore operations results in negative environmental effects, EOG maintains operators extra expense coverage provided by third-party insurers for obligations, expenses or claims that EOG may incur from such an incident, including obligations, expenses or claims in respect of seepage and pollution, cleanup and containment, evacuation expenses and control of the well (subject to policy terms and conditions).  In the specific event of a well blowout or out-of-control well resulting in negative environmental effects, such operators extra expense coverage would be EOG's primary coverage, with the commercial general liability and excess liability coverage referenced above also providing certain coverage to EOG.  All of EOG's onshore and offshore drilling activities are conducted on a contractual basis with independent drilling contractors and other third-party service contractors.  The indemnification and other risk allocation provisions included in such contracts are negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis and are each based on the particular circumstances of the services being provided and the anticipated operations.

In addition to the above-described risks, EOG's operations outside the United States are subject to certain risks, including the risk of increases in taxes and governmental royalties, changes in laws and policies governing the operations of foreign-based companies, expropriation of assets, unilateral or forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts with governmental entities, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations.  Please refer to ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of the risks to which EOG is subject with respect to its operations outside the United States.





14












Texas Severance Tax Rate Reduction.  Natural gas production from qualifying Texas natural gas wells spudded or completed after August 31, 1996 is entitled to a reduced severance tax rate for the first 120 consecutive months of production.  However, the cumulative value of the tax reduction cannot exceed 50 percent of the drilling and completion costs incurred on a well-by-well basis.  For a discussion of the impact on EOG, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Operating and Other Expenses.




Executive Officers of the Registrant




The current executive officers of EOG and their names and ages (as of February 21, 2013) are as follows:







Name


Age


                    Position





 


 


 





Mark G. Papa


66


Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Director





 


 


 





William R. Thomas


60


President





 


 


 





Gary L. Thomas


63


Chief Operating Officer





 


 


 





Timothy K. Driggers


51


Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





 


 


 





Michael P. Donaldson


50


Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary







Mark G. Papa was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of EOG in August 1999, President and Chief Executive Officer and director in September 1998, President and Chief Operating Officer in September 1997 and President in December 1996, and was President-North America Operations from February 1994 to December 1996.  Mr. Papa joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor of EOG, in 1981.  Mr. Papa is also a director of Oil States International, Inc., an oilfield service company, where he serves on the Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees.  From July 2003 to April 2005, Mr. Papa served as a director of the general partner of Magellan Midstream Partners LP, a pipeline and terminal company, where he served as Chairman of the Compensation Committee and as a member of the Audit and Conflicts Committees.  Mr. Papa is EOG's principal executive officer.




William R. Thomas was elected President in September 2011.  He was elected Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Fort Worth, Texas, office in June 2004, Executive Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Fort Worth, Texas, office in February 2007, and Senior Executive Vice President, Exploitation in February 2011, and served as Senior Executive Vice President, Exploration from July 2011 to September 2011.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in January 1979.




Gary L. Thomas was elected Chief Operating Officer in September 2011.  He was elected Executive Vice President, North America Operations in May 1998, Executive Vice President, Operations in May 2002, and served as Senior Executive Vice President, Operations from February 2007 to September 2011.  He also previously served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Midland, Texas, office.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in July 1978.




Timothy K. Driggers was elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2007.  He was elected Vice President and Controller of EOG in October 1999 and was subsequently named Vice President, Accounting and Land Administration in October 2000 and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in August 2003.  Mr. Driggers is EOG's principal financial officer.  Mr. Driggers joined a predecessor of EOG in August 1995.




Michael P. Donaldson was elected Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in May 2012.  He was elected Corporate Secretary in May 2008, and was appointed Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in July 2010.  Mr. Donaldson joined EOG as an Assistant General Counsel in September 2007.





15












ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors




Our business and operations are subject to many risks.  The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial.  If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained herein, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes.  Unless the context requires otherwise, "we," "us," "our" and "EOG" refer to EOG Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries.




A substantial or extended decline in crude oil or natural gas prices could have a material and adverse effect on us.




Prices for crude oil and natural gas (including prices for natural gas liquids (NGLs) and condensate) fluctuate widely.  Among the factors that can or could cause these price fluctuations are:








·


the level of consumer demand;









·


domestic and worldwide supplies of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas;









·


the price and quantity of imported and exported crude oil, NGLs and natural gas;









·


weather conditions and changes in weather patterns;









·


domestic and international drilling activity;









·


the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities, gathering, processing and compression facilities and refining facilities;









·


worldwide economic and political conditions, including political instability or armed conflict in oil and gas producing regions;









·


the price and availability of, and demand for, competing energy sources, including alternative energy sources;









·


the nature and extent of governmental regulation (including environmental regulation and regulation of derivatives transactions and hedging activities) and taxation;









·


the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including trading by commodity price speculators and others; and









·


the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures.








Our cash flows and results of operations depend to a great extent on the prevailing prices for crude oil and natural gas.  Prolonged or substantial declines in crude oil and/or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our liquidity, the amount of cash flows we have available for our capital expenditures and other operating expenses, our ability to access the credit and capital markets and our results of operations.




In addition, if we expect or experience significant sustained decreases in crude oil and natural gas prices such that the expected future cash flows from our crude oil and natural gas properties falls below the net book value of our properties, we may be required to write down the value of our crude oil and natural gas properties.  Any such asset impairments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock.




Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells is a high-risk activity and subjects us to a variety of risks that we cannot control.




Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells, including development wells, involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive crude oil and natural gas reserves (including "dry holes").  As a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells.




Specifically, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells, and our drilling operations and those of our third-party operators may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, the cost of such operations may increase and/or our results of operations and cash flows from such operations may be impacted, as a result of a variety of factors, including:








·


unexpected drilling conditions;









·


title problems;









·


pressure or irregularities in formations;






16
















·


equipment failures or accidents;









·


adverse weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding and hurricanes, and changes in weather patterns;









·


compliance with, or changes in, environmental laws and regulations relating to air emissions, hydraulic fracturing and disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes, laws and regulations imposing conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations and other laws and regulations, such as tax laws and regulations;









·


the availability and timely issuance of required governmental permits and licenses;









·


the availability of, costs associated with and terms of contractual arrangements for properties, including mineral licenses and leases, pipelines, rail cars, crude oil hauling trucks and qualified drivers and related facilities and equipment to gather, process, compress, transport and market crude oil, natural gas and related commodities; and









·


the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing services, pressure pumping equipment and supplies, tubular materials, water, sand, disposal facilities, qualified personnel and other necessary equipment, materials, supplies and services.








Our failure to recover our investment in wells, increases in the costs of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators, and/or curtailments, delays or cancellations of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators in each case due to any of the above factors or other factors, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For related discussion of the risks and potential losses and liabilities inherent in our crude oil and natural gas operations generally, see the immediately following risk factor.




Our crude oil and natural gas operations involve many risks and expose us to potential losses and liabilities, and insurance may not fully protect us against these risks and potential losses and liabilities.




Our onshore and offshore operations are subject to all of the risks associated with exploring and drilling for, and producing, gathering, processing and transporting, crude oil and natural gas, including the risks of:








·


well blowouts and cratering;









·


loss of well control;









·


crude oil spills, natural gas leaks and pipeline ruptures;









·


pipe failures and casing collapses;









·


        uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, formation water or drilling fluids;









·


releases of chemicals or other hazardous substances;









·


        adverse weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding and hurricanes, and other natural disasters;









·


fires and explosions;









·


        terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches;









·


formations with abnormal pressures; and









·


malfunctions of gathering, processing and other equipment.








If any of these events occur, we could incur losses and liabilities as a result of:








·


injury or loss of life;









·


damage to, or destruction of, property, equipment and crude oil and natural gas reservoirs;









·


pollution or other environmental damage;









·


        regulatory investigations and penalties as well as clean-up and remediation responsibilities and costs;









·


suspension or interruption of our operations, including due to injunction; and









·


repairs necessary to resume operations.









17












We maintain insurance against many, but not all, such losses and liabilities in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable.  The occurrence of any of these events and any losses or liabilities incurred as a result of such events, if uninsured or in excess of our insurance coverage, would reduce the funds available to us for our onshore and offshore exploration, exploitation, development and production activities and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Our ability to sell and deliver our crude oil and natural gas production could be materially and adversely affected if adequate gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities are unavailable.




The sale of our crude oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities owned by third parties.  These facilities may be temporarily unavailable to us due to market conditions, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, and may not be available to us in the future on terms we consider acceptable, if at all.  In particular, in certain newer shale plays, the capacity of gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities may not be sufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells.  In addition, lack of financing, construction and permitting delays, permitting costs and other constraints could limit or delay the construction of new gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities by third parties or us, and we may experience delays or increased costs in accessing the pipelines, gathering systems or rail systems necessary to transport our production to points of sale or delivery.  Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting gathering, processing, compression or transportation facilities or the availability of these facilities, including due to our failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities on terms acceptable to us or at all, could materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.




If we fail to acquire or find sufficient additional reserves over time, our reserves and production will decline from their current levels.




The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are produced.  Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration, exploitation and development activities, acquire additional properties containing reserves or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our reserves will decline as they are produced.  Maintaining our production of crude oil and natural gas at, or increasing our production from, current levels, is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves, which could in turn impact our future cash flows and results of operations.




We incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, particularly regulations relating to environmental protection and safety, and could incur even greater costs in the future.




Our exploration, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively by federal, state and local governments and regulatory agencies, both domestically and in the foreign countries in which we do business, and are subject to interruption or termination by governmental and regulatory authorities based on environmental or other considerations.  Moreover, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental, safety and other regulations.  Further, the regulatory environment in the oil and gas industry could change in ways that we cannot predict and that might substantially increase our costs of compliance and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.




Specifically, as a current or past owner or lessee and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment.  These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from current or past operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas.  Moreover, we are subject to the United States (U.S.) Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) rule requiring annual reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Changes in, or additions to, these regulations could lead to increased operating and compliance costs and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.





18












Local, state, national and international regulatory bodies have been increasingly focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues in recent years.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties regarding climate change and GHG emissions, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.




In addition, there have been various proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing in the U.S. at the federal level.  Currently, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing in the U.S. is primarily conducted at the state level (and, in Canada, at the provincial and local levels) through permitting and other compliance requirements.  Any new federal regulations that may be imposed on hydraulic fracturing could result in additional permitting and disclosure requirements and in additional operating restrictions.  Moreover, some state and local governments have imposed or have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations.  Any such federal or state requirements, restrictions or conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing.  Accordingly, our production of crude oil and natural gas could be materially and adversely affected.  For additional discussion regarding climate change regulation and hydraulic fracturing regulation, see Climate Change - United States, Hydraulic Fracturing - United States and Environmental Regulation - Canada under ITEM 1. Business - Regulation.




We will continue to monitor and assess any proposed or new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where we operate to determine the impact on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  For related discussion, see the risk factor below regarding the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act with respect to regulation of derivatives transactions and entities (such as EOG) that participate in such transactions.




Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.

Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies.  These changes include, but are not limited to, the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs.  It is unclear whether such changes or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective.  The enactment of such changes or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.




A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us.




A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including, but not limited to, as a result of accidents, weather conditions, loss of gathering, processing, compression or transportation facility access or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as crude oil or natural gas prices that we deem uneconomic.  If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted, our cash flows and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.




We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate.




Some of the properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners.  As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties.  Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects.  In addition, a third-party operator could also decide to shut-in or curtail production from wells, or plug and abandon marginal wells, on properties owned by that operator during periods of lower crude oil or natural gas prices.  These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs, lower production and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.


19












If we acquire crude oil and natural gas properties, our failure to fully identify existing and potential problems, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.




From time to time, we seek to acquire crude oil and natural gas properties.  Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is duly diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor may they permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to assess fully their deficiencies and potential.  Even when problems with a property are identified, we often may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements.  In addition, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves (as discussed further below), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties.  Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates.  In addition, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations.




We have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all.




We make, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves.  We intend to finance our capital expenditures primarily through our cash flows from operations, commercial paper borrowings, sales of assets and borrowings under other uncommitted credit facilities and, to a lesser extent and if and as necessary, bank borrowings, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and public and private equity and debt offerings.




Lower crude oil and natural gas prices, however, would reduce our cash flows.  Further, if the condition of the credit and capital markets materially declines, we might not be able to obtain financing on terms we consider acceptable, if at all.  In addition, weakness and/or volatility in domestic and global financial markets or economic conditions may increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay and adversely affect our ability to finance our capital expenditures through equity or debt offerings or other borrowings.  A reduction in our cash flows (for example, as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices) and the corresponding adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations may also increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay.  In addition, a substantial increase in interest rates would decrease our net cash flows available for reinvestment.  Any of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.




The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us may have a material and adverse effect on us.




We have various customers for the crude oil, natural gas and related commodities that we produce as well as various other contractual counterparties, including several financial institutions and affiliates of financial institutions.  Domestic and global economic conditions, including the financial condition of financial institutions generally, have weakened in recent years and remain relatively weak.  In addition, there continues to be weakness and volatility in domestic and global financial markets relating to the credit crisis in recent years, and corresponding reaction by lenders to risk.  These conditions and factors may adversely affect the ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us from time to time and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us, as well as their ability to access the credit and capital markets for such purposes.




Moreover, our customers and other contractual counterparties may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations to us for reasons unrelated to these conditions and factors, such as the unavailability of required facilities or equipment due to mechanical failure or market conditions.  Furthermore, if a customer is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation to purchase crude oil, natural gas or related commodities from us, we may be unable to sell such production to another customer on terms we consider acceptable, if at all, due to the geographic location of such production, the availability, proximity or capacity of gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities or market or other factors and conditions.





20












The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.




Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we have.




We compete with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and the equipment, materials, services and employees and other contract personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) required to explore for, develop, produce and market crude oil and natural gas.  In addition, many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those we possess and have established strategic long-term positions and strong governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights or in acquiring necessary services, equipment, materials and personnel.  In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels.  We also face competition, to a lesser extent, from competing energy sources, such as alternative energy sources.




Reserve estimates depend on many interpretations and assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations and assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves to be materially misstated.




Estimating quantities of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves is a complex, inexact process.  It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, made by our management and our independent petroleum consultants.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves to be overstated or understated.  Also, the data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions.




To prepare estimates of our economically recoverable crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from our reserves, we analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas.  We also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary.  The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, many of which factors are or may be beyond our control.  Our actual reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves most likely will vary from our estimates.  Any significant variance, including any significant revisions or "write-downs" to our existing reserve estimates, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock.  For related discussion, see ITEM 2. Properties - Oil and Gas Exploration and Production - Properties and Reserves.




Weather and climate may have a significant and adverse impact on us.




Demand for crude oil and natural gas is, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts, among other things, the price we receive for the commodities we produce and, in turn, our cash flows and results of operations.  For example, relatively warm temperatures during a winter season generally result in relatively lower demand for natural gas (as less natural gas is used to heat residences and businesses) and, as a result, relatively lower prices for natural gas production.





21












In addition, our exploration, exploitation and development activities and equipment can be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding and hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged facilities and equipment.  Such extreme weather conditions could also impact other areas of our operations, including access to our drilling and production facilities for routine operations, maintenance and repairs, the installation and operation of gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities and the availability of, and our access to, necessary third-party services, such as gathering, processing, compression and transportation services.  Such extreme weather conditions and changes in weather patterns may materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.




Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting fully from increases in crude oil and natural gas prices and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty risk.




We use derivative instruments (primarily financial price swaps, options, swaptions, collar and basis swap contracts) to hedge the impact of fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas prices on our results of operations and cash flows.  To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to protect ourselves against commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of increases in crude oil and natural gas prices above the prices established by our hedging contracts.  In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our hedging contracts fail to perform under the contracts.




Recent federal legislation and related regulations regarding derivatives transactions could have a material and adverse impact on our hedging activities.




As discussed in the risk factor immediately above, we use derivative instruments to hedge the impact of fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas prices on our results of operations and cash flows.  In 2010, Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), which, among other matters, provides for federal oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market and mandates that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), adopt rules or regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and providing definitions of terms used in the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Dodd-Frank Act establishes margin requirements and requires clearing and trade execution practices for certain categories of swaps and may result in certain market participants needing to curtail their derivatives activities.  Although many of the rules necessary to implement the Dodd-Frank Act are yet to be adopted, the CFTC has issued several rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, including a rule establishing an "end-user" exception to mandatory clearing (End-User Exception), and a rule imposing position limits (Position Limits Rule).




We qualify as a "non-financial entity" for purposes of the End-User Exception and, as such, we will be eligible for, and expect to utilize, such exception.  As a result, our hedging activities will not be subject to mandatory clearing or the margin requirements imposed in connection with mandatory clearing.  However, it remains uncertain whether margin requirements will be imposed on uncleared swaps.  The Position Limits Rule was vacated and remanded to the CFTC for further proceedings by order of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012.  The Dodd-Frank Act, the rules which have been adopted and not vacated, and, to the extent that a position limit rule is ultimately effected, such position limit rule, could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including costs related to requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against the price risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties.  If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund our capital expenditures requirements.  Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.





22












Our business and prospects for future success depend to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of our management team.




Our business and prospects for future success, including the successful implementation of our strategies and handling of issues integral to our future success, depend to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of our management team.  The loss of any member of our management team, and our inability to attract, motivate and retain substitute management personnel with comparable experience and skills, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.




We operate in other countries and, as a result, are subject to certain political, economic and other risks.




Our operations in jurisdictions outside the U.S. are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations.  These risks include, among other risks:








·


increases in taxes and governmental royalties;









·


changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies;









·


loss of revenue, loss of or damage to equipment, property and other assets and interruption of operations as a result of expropriation, nationalization, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks;









·


unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities;









·


difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations; and









·


currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations.








Our international operations may also be adversely affected by U.S. laws and policies affecting foreign trade and taxation.  The realization of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations.




The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar.  However, certain of our subsidiaries are located in countries other than the U.S. and have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of certain of these foreign subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates.  Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if the amount has not changed in the original currency.  These translations could result in changes to our results of operations from period to period.  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 3% of our net operating revenues related to operations of our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency was not the U.S. dollar.




Terrorist activities and military and other actions could materially and adversely affect us.




Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets.  The U.S. government has at times issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations.  Any such actions and the threat of such actions could materially and adversely affect us in unpredictable ways, including the disruption of energy supplies and markets, increased volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices or the possibility that the infrastructure on which we rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terrorism, and, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.





23












ITEM 1B