ITEM 1A. Risk Factors beginning on page
13.
Regulation

	United States Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production.  Natural gas and crude oil production operations are subject to various types of regulation, including regulation in the United States by state and federal agencies.
	United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion.  Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have issued rules and regulations which, among other things, require permits for the drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural gas and liquid hydrocarbon resources through proration and restrictions on flaring, require drilling bonds and regulate environmental and safety matters.  
	A substantial portion of EOG's oil and gas leases in Utah, Wyoming and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Minerals Management Service (MMS), both federal agencies.  Operations conducted by EOG on federal oil and gas leases must comply with numerous statutory and regulatory restrictions.  Certain operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate permits issued by the BLM and the MMS.
	BLM and MMS leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring compliance with detailed regulations and, in the case of offshore leases, orders pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (which are subject to change by the MMS). Such offshore operations are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, including the need for prior MMS approval for exploration, development, and production plans, stringent engineering and construction specifications applicable to offshore production facilities, regulations restricting the flaring or venting of production, and regulations governing the plugging and abandonment of offshore wells and the removal of all production facilities.  Under certain circumstances, the MMS may require operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination could adversely affect EOG's interests.
	Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids by EOG are made at unregulated market prices.
	The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (NGPA). These statutes are administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Effective January 1, 1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by EOG of its own production.  All other sales of natural gas by EOG, such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, remain jurisdictional sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible terms and conditions.  Consequently, all of EOG's sales of natural gas currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions.  EOG's jurisdictional sales, however, are subject to the future possibility of greater federal oversight, including the possibility that the FERC might prospectively impose more r
estrictive conditions on such sales.
	EOG owns, directly or indirectly, certain natural gas pipelines that it believes meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA.  State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental, and in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements, but does not generally entail rate regulation.  EOG's gathering operations could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services.
	EOG's natural gas gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement, and management of facilities.  Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and/or adopted from time to time.  Although EOG cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation might have on its operations, the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.
7
	Proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the state legislatures, the FERC, the state regulatory commissions and the federal and state courts. EOG cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become effective.  It should also be noted that the natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less regulated approach currently being followed by the FERC will continue indefinitely.
	Environmental Regulation - United States.  Various federal, state and local laws and regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, affect EOG's operations and costs as a result of their effect on natural gas and crude oil exploration, development and production operations and could cause EOG to incur remediation or other corrective action costs in connection with a release of regulated substances, including crude oil, into the environment.  In addition, EOG has acquired certain oil and gas properties from third parties whose actions with respect to the management and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under EOG's control.  Under environmental laws and regulations, EOG could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators.  In addition, EOG could be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for oil and gas properti
es in which EOG owns an interest but is not the operator.  Compliance with such laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had a material adverse effect on EOG's operations or financial condition. It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations but, inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. EOG also could incur costs related to the clean up of sites to which it sent regulated substances for disposal or to which it sent equipment for cleaning, and for damages to natural resources or other claims related to releases of regulated substances at such sites.  
	EOG is aware of the increasing focus of local, national and international regulatory bodies on gaseous emissions and climate change.  EOG believes that its strategy, to reduce emissions throughout our operations, is in the best interest of the environment and a generally good business practice.  EOG will continue to review the risks to the company, associated with all environmental matters, including global warming/climate change.
	Canadian Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production.  The crude oil and natural gas industry in Canada is subject to extensive controls and regulations imposed by various levels of government.  These regulatory authorities may impose regulations on or otherwise intervene in the oil and natural gas industry with respect to prices, taxes, transportation rates, the exportation of the commodity and, possibly, expropriation or cancellation of contract rights.  Such regulations may be changed from time to time in response to complaints or economic or political conditions.  The implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and natural gas industry could reduce demand for these commodities, increase EOG's costs and may have a material adverse impact on its operations.  
	It is not expected that any of these controls or regulations will affect EOG operations in a manner materially different than they would affect other oil and gas companies of similar size.  EOG is unable to predict what additional legislation or amendments may be enacted. 
	In addition, each province has regulations that govern land tenure, royalties, production rates and other matters.  The royalty regime is a significant factor in the profitability of crude oil and natural gas production.  Royalties payable on production from private lands are determined by negotiations between the mineral owner and the lessee, although production from such lands is also subject to certain provincial taxes and royalties.  Crown royalties are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, and the rate of royalties payable generally depends in part on prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date and the type or quality of the petroleum product produced. 
	Environmental Regulation - Canada. All phases of
the crude oil and natural gas industry in Canada are subject to environmental
regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian federal, provincial, and municipal
laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations impose, among other things,
restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation,
handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous
substances and wastes and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of
various substances to the environment. These laws and regulations also require
that facility sites and other properties associated with EOG's operations be
operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable
regulatory authorities. In addition, new projects or changes to existing
projects may require the submission and approval of environmental assessments or
permit applications. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change
and the clear trend is to place increasingly stringent limitations on activities
that may affect the environment. While compliance with such 
	8
	legislation can require significant expenditures, failure
to comply with these environmental laws and regulations could result in the
assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, suspension or
revocation of licenses and, in some instances, the issuance of injunctions to
limit or cease operations. 
	Spills and releases from EOG's properties may have resulted or result in soil and groundwater contamination in certain locations.  Such contamination is not unusual within the crude oil and natural gas industry. Any contamination found on, under or originating from the properties may be subject to remediation requirements under Canadian laws.  EOG could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators.  In addition, EOG could be held responsible for oil and gas properties in which EOG owns an interest but is not the operator.  
	In December 2002, the Canadian federal government ratified the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which requires Canada to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 6% below 1990 levels over the 2008-2012 periods.  The Climate Change Plan for Canada, which was released in November 2002, outlined, in very general terms, the approach the Canadian government intended to take to implement its emissions reduction commitment. The Canadian government issued a further climate change plan, Moving Forward on Climate Change: A Plan for Honouring our Kyoto Commitment, in April of 2005.  With the change in government at the federal level since the issuance of the 2005 plan, it is unclear how Canada intends to meet its Kyoto Protocol obligations.  The final rules, once known, could affect operations and profitability. 
	Other International Regulation.  EOG's exploration and production operations outside the United States and Canada are subject to various types of regulations imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which EOG's operations are conducted, and may affect EOG's operations and costs within that country.  EOG currently has operations in Trinidad and the United Kingdom.  
Other Matters

	Energy Prices.  Since EOG is primarily a natural gas producer, it is more significantly impacted by changes in prices of natural gas than changes in prices of crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids.  Average United States and Canada wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated, at times rather dramatically, during the last three years.  These fluctuations resulted in a 12% increase in the average wellhead natural gas price for production in the United States and Canada received by EOG from 2003 to 2004, an increase of 37% from 2004 to 2005, and a decrease of 15% from 2005 to 2006.  In 2006, a large majority of the wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad were sold under contracts with prices which were either wholly or partially dependent on Caribbean ammonia index prices and/or methanol prices.  The remaining volumes were sold under a contract at prices partially dependent on the United States Henry Hub market prices.  The pricing mechanisms for these contracts in Trinid
ad will remain the same in 2007.  In 2006, a large majority of the wellhead natural gas volumes from the United Kingdom were sold on the spot market.  The remaining volumes were sold by means of forward contracts.  The marketing strategy for the wellhead natural gas volumes in the United Kingdom is expected to remain the same in 2007.  Crude oil and condensate prices also have fluctuated during the last three years. Due to the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the availabilities of other world wide energy supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers, EOG is unable to predict what changes may occur in natural gas, crude oil and condensate, ammonia and methanol prices in the future.
	Assuming a totally unhedged position for 2007, based on EOG's tax position and the portion of EOG's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2007 for which prices have not been determined under long-term marketing contracts, EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf change in wellhead natural gas price is approximately $27 million for net income and operating cash flow.  EOG's price sensitivity in 2007 for each $1.00 per barrel change in wellhead crude oil price is approximately $6 million for net income and operating cash flow.  Summarized below and in Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements is information regarding EOG's current 2007 natural gas and crude oil hedge position.  
	Risk Management.  EOG engages in price risk management activities from time to time.  These activities are intended to manage EOG's exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices for natural gas and crude oil.  EOG utilizes financial commodity derivative instruments, primarily collar and price swap contracts, as the means tomanage this price risk.  EOG accounts for financial commodity derivative contracts using the mark-to-market accounting method.  In addition to financial transactions, EOG is a party to various physical commodity contracts for the sale of hydrocarbons that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions.  Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended by SFAS
Nos. 137, 138 and 149, these physical commodity contracts qualify for the normal
purchases and normal sales exception and therefore, are not subject to hedge
accounting or mark-to-market accounting. The 

	9

	financial impact of physical commodity contracts is
included in revenues at the time of settlement, which in turn affects average
realized hydrocarbon prices. For a summary of EOG's financial commodity
derivative contracts, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Derivative Transactions. 

	All of EOG's natural gas and crude oil activities are subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of natural gas and crude oil, including blowouts, cratering and fires, each of which could result in damage to life and/or property.  Offshore operations are subject to usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.  EOG's activities are also subject to governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations.  In accordance with customary industry practices, insurance is maintained by EOG against some, but not all, of the risks.  Losses and liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to EOG to the extent not covered by insurance.  
	EOG's operations outside of the United States are subject to certain risks, including expropriation of assets, risks of increases in taxes and government royalties, renegotiation of contracts with foreign governments, political instability, payment delays, limits on allowable levels of production and currency exchange and repatriation losses, as well as changes in laws, regulations and policies governing operations of foreign companies.  Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors beginning on page
13 for further discussion of the risks to which EOG is subject.
	Texas Severance Tax Rate Reduction.  Natural gas production from qualifying Texas wells spudded or completed after August 31, 1996, is entitled to a reduced severance tax rate for the first 120 consecutive months of production.  However, the cumulative value of the tax reduction cannot exceed 50 percent of the drilling and completion costs incurred on a well-by-well basis.  For the impact on EOG, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Taxes Other Than Income Taxes.
	Common Stock Rights Agreement.  On February 14, 2000, EOG's Board of Directors (Board) declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a Right, and the agreement governing the terms of such Rights, the Rights Agreement) for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share.  The Board has adopted this Rights Agreement to protect shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics.  The dividend was distributed to the shareholders of record on February 24, 2000.  In accordance with the Rights Agreement, each share of common stock issued in connection with the two-for-one stock split effective March 1, 2005, also had one Right associated with it.  Each Right, expiring February 24, 2010, represents a right to buy from EOG one hundredth (1/100) of a share of Series E Junior Participating Preferred Stock (Series E) for $90, once the Rights become exercisable.  This portion of a Series E share will give the shareho
lder approximately the same dividend, voting, and liquidation rights as would one share of common stock.  Prior to exercise, the Right does not give its holder any dividend, voting, or liquidation rights.  If issued, each one hundredth (1/100) of a Series E share (i) will not be redeemable; (ii) will entitle holders to quarterly dividend payments of $0.01 per share, or an amount equal to the dividend paid on one share of common stock, whichever is greater; (iii) will entitle holders upon liquidation either to receive $1 per share or an amount equal to the payment made on one share of common stock, whichever is greater; (iv) will have the same voting power as one share of common stock; and (v) if shares of EOG's common stock are exchanged via merger, consolidation, or a similar transaction, will entitle holders to a per share payment equal to the payment made on one share of common stock.
	The Rights will not be exercisable until ten days after a public announcement that a person or group has become an acquiring person (Acquiring Person) by obtaining beneficial ownership of 10% or more of EOG's common stock, or if earlier, ten business days (or a later date determined by EOG's Board before any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person) after a person or group begins a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would result in that person or group becoming an Acquiring Person.  On February 24, 2005, the Rights Agreement was amended to create an exception to the definition of Acquiring Person to permit a qualified institutional investor to hold 10% or more, but less than 20%, of EOG's common stock without being deemed an Acquiring Person if the institutional investor meets the following requirements:  (i)
the institutional investor is described in Rule 13d-1(b)(1) promulgated under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is eligible to report (and, if such
institutional investor is the beneficial owner of greater than 5% of EOG's
common stock, does in fact report) beneficial ownership of common stock on
Schedule 13G; (ii) the institutional investor is not required to file a Schedule
13D (or any successor or comparable report) with respect to its beneficial
ownership of EOG's common stock; (iii) the institutional investor does not
beneficially own 15% or more of EOG's common stock (including in such
calculation the holdings of all of the institutional investor's affiliates and
associates other than those which, under published interpretations of the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff, are eligible to file
separate reports on Schedule 13G with respect to their beneficial ownership of
EOG's common stock); and (iv) the institutional investor does not beneficially
own 20% or more of EOG's common stock (including in such calculation the
holdings of all of the 
	10
	institutional investor's affiliates and associates). On
June 15, 2005, the Rights Agreement was amended again to revise the exception to
the definition of Acquiring Person to permit a qualified institutional investor
to hold 10% or more but less than 30% of EOG's common stock without being deemed
an Acquiring Person if the institutional investor meets the other requirements
of the definition of qualified institutional investor described in the
amendment.
	If a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, all holders of Rights, except the Acquiring Person may, for $90, purchase shares of EOG's common stock with a market value of $180 based on the market price of the common stock prior to such acquisition.  If EOG is later acquired in a merger or similar transaction after the Rights become exercisable, all holders of Rights except the Acquiring Person may, for $90, purchase shares of the acquiring corporation with a market value of $180 based on the market price of the acquiring corporation's stock prior to such merger.
	EOG's Board may redeem the Rights for $0.005 per Right at any time before any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person.  If the Board redeems any Rights, it must redeem all of the Rights.  Once the Rights are redeemed, the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the redemption price of $0.005 per Right.  The redemption price has been adjusted for the two-for-one stock split effective March 1, 2005 and will be adjusted for any future stock split or stock dividends of EOG's common stock.  After a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, but before an Acquiring Person owns 50% or more of EOG's outstanding common stock, the Board may exchange the Rights for common stock or equivalent security at an exchange ratio of one share of common stock or an equivalent security for each such Right, other than Rights held by the Acquiring Person.
	Preferred Stock.  EOG currently has two authorized series of preferred stock. On February 14, 2000, EOG's Board, in connection with the Rights Agreement described above, authorized 1,500,000 shares of the Series E with the rights and preferences described above.  On February 24, 2005, EOG's Board increased the authorized shares of Series E to 3,000,000 as a result of the two-for-one stock split of EOG's common stock effective March 1, 2005.  Currently, there are no shares of the Series E outstanding.
	On July 19, 2000, EOG's Board authorized 100,000 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Senior Preferred Stock, Series B, with a $1,000 Liquidation Preference per share (Series B).  Dividends are payable on the shares only if declared by EOG's Board and will be cumulative.  If declared, dividends will be payable at a rate of $71.95 per share, per year on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year beginning September 15, 2000.  EOG may redeem all or part of the Series B at any time beginning on December 15, 2009 at $1,000 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends.  The Series B is not convertible into, or exchangeable for, common stock of EOG.  On October 11, 2006, EOG commenced a cash tender offer to purchase any and all of the 100,000 outstanding shares of the Series B at a price of $1,074.01 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends up to the date of purchase.  The tender offer expired on November 8, 2006, and on November 10, 2006, EOG redeemed 46,740 shares
 of the Series B for an aggregate purchase price, including redemption premium, fees and dividends, of $51 million.  EOG has included as a component of preferred dividends the $4 million of premium and fees associated with the redemption of the Series B shares.  A total of 53,260 shares of the Series B remain outstanding at December 31, 2006.  
11

Current Executive Officers of the Registrant

	The current executive officers of EOG and their names and ages are as follows:



Name

Age

Position

 
 
 


Mark G. Papa 

60

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Director

 
 
 


  
Loren M. Leiker 

53

Senior Executive Vice President, Exploration


   
 
 


Edmund P. Segner, III 

53

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff; Director

 
 
 


Gary L. Thomas 

57

Senior Executive Vice President, Operations

 
 
 

Robert K. Garrison
54
Executive Vice President,
Exploration

 
 
 


Barry Hunsaker, Jr. 

57

Senior Vice President and General Counsel

 
 
 


Timothy K. Driggers 

45

Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer




	Mark G. Papa was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of EOG in August 1999, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director in September 1998, President and Chief Operating Officer in September 1997, President in December 1996 and was President-North America Operations from February 1994 to September 1998.  Mr. Papa joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor of EOG, in 1981.  Mr. Papa is EOG's principal executive officer.
	Loren M. Leiker was elected Senior Executive Vice
President, Exploration on February 26, 2007.  He was elected Executive Vice President, Exploration in May 1998 and was subsequently named Executive Vice President, Exploration and Development.  He was previously Senior Vice President, Exploration.  Mr. Leiker joined EOG in April 1989 as International Exploration Manager.
	Edmund P. Segner, III was elected Senior Executive Vice
President and Chief of Staff on February 26, 2007.  He was elected  President and Chief of Staff and Director of EOG in August 1999.  He
was elected Vice Chairman and Chief of Staff of EOG in September 1997.  He was a director of EOG from January 1997 to October 1997.  Mr. Segner is EOG's principal financial officer.
	Gary L. Thomas was elected Senior Executive Vice
President, Operations on February 26, 2007.  He was elected Executive Vice President, North America Operations in May 1998 and was subsequently named Executive Vice President, Operations.  He was previously Senior Vice President and General Manager in Midland.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in July 1978.
	Robert K. Garrison was elected Executive Vice President,
Exploration on February 26, 2007.  He previously was elected Senior Vice
President and General Manager in Corpus Christi in August 2004.  Prior to
that he was Vice President and General Manager in Corpus Christi.
	Barry Hunsaker, Jr. has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel since he joined EOG in May 1996.
	Timothy K. Driggers was elected Vice President and Controller of EOG in October 1999 and was subsequently named Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in August 2003.  He was previously Vice President, Accounting and Land Administration.  Mr. Driggers is EOG's principal accounting officer.
	There are no family relationships among the officers listed, and there are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as officers.  Officers are appointed or elected annually by the Board of Directors at its meeting immediately prior to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, each to hold office until the corresponding meeting of the Board in the next year or until a successor shall have been duly elected or appointed and shall have qualified.
	12
ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors 

	Our business faces many risks.  The risks described below may not be the only risks we face.  Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results.  If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. 

A substantial or extended decline in natural gas or crude oil  prices would have a material adverse effect on us.
	Prices for natural gas and crude oil fluctuate widely.  Since we are primarily a natural gas company, we are more significantly affected by changes in natural gas prices than changes in the prices for crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids.  Among the factors that can cause these price fluctuations are:


the level of consumer demand;weather conditions;domestic drilling activity;the price and availability of alternative fuels, including liquefied natural gas;the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities;worldwide economic and political conditions;the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; andthe nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation.

	Our cash flow and earnings depend to a great extent on the prevailing prices for natural gas and crude oil.  Prolonged or substantial declines in these commodity prices may adversely affect our liquidity, the amount of cash flow we have available for capital expenditures and our ability to maintain our credit quality and access to the credit and capital markets.
Our ability to sell our crude oil and natural gas production could be materially harmed if we fail to obtain adequate services such as transportation and processing.

	The sale of our crude oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities.  Any significant change in market factors affecting these infrastructure facilities or our failure to obtain these services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business.  We deliver crude oil and natural gas through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own.  These facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions or mechanical reasons, or may not be available to us in the future. 
Weather and climate may have a significant impact on our revenues and productivity. 

	Demand for natural gas and oil is, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts the price we receive for the commodities we produce.  In addition, our exploration and development activities and equipment can be adversely affected by severe weather, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged equipment. 
Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate.  Any material inaccuracies in our underlying assumptions could cause the quantities of our reserves to be misstated. 

	Estimating quantities of proved crude oil and natural gas reserves is a complex process.  It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions or changes of conditions could cause the quantities of our reserves to be overstated or understated. 
	To prepare estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows, we analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas.  We also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary.  The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs.  Actual results most likely will vary from our estimates.  Any significant variance could reduce our estimated quantities and present value of reserves. 
	13
If we fail to acquire or find sufficient additional reserves, our reserves and production will decline from their current levels.
	The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration and development activities, acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced.  Future crude oil and natural gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves.
Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells is a high-risk activity and subjects us to a variety of factors that we cannot control. 

	Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells, including development wells, involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive crude oil and natural gas reservoirs.  We may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells.  The presence of unanticipated pressures or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our drilling activities to be unsuccessful and result in a total loss of our investment.  In addition, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells.  Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: 


unexpected drilling conditions;title problems;pressure or irregularities in formations;equipment failures or accidents;adverse weather conditions;compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements, which may increase our costs 	or restrict our activities; costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, tubular materials and equipment;lack of infrastructure; andlack of trained drilling personnel.

We incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, especially regulations relating to environmental protection, and could incur even greater costs in the future.
	Our exploration, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels, as well as by other governments/authorities in countries in which we do business.  We have and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental and other regulations.  Further, the crude oil and natural gas industry regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase these costs.
	As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment.  These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution clean-up resulting from operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas.  Changes in or additions to regulations regarding the protection of the environment could hurt our business.
We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities.
	The exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can damage or destroy wells or production facilities, injure or kill people, and damage property and the environment.  Offshore operations are subject to usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions, and governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations.  We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts that we believe to be prudent.  Losses and liabilities arising from such events could reduce our revenues and increase our costs to the extent not covered by insurance.
	14
	The occurrence of any of these events and any costs incurred as a result of such events and the liabilities related thereto, would reduce the funds available for exploration, drilling and production and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.
Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks.
	From time to time, we use derivative instruments
(primarily collars and price swaps) to hedge the impact of market fluctuations
of natural gas and crude oil prices on net income and cash flow. To the extent
that we engage in hedging activities, we may be prevented from realizing the
benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges. In addition, we are
subject to risks associated with differences in prices at different locations,
particularly where  
	transportation constraints restrict our ability to
deliver oil and gas volumes to the delivery point to which the hedging
transaction is indexed.  
If we acquire oil and gas properties, our failure to fully identify potential problems, to properly estimate reserves or production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired operations could seriously harm us.

	From time to time, we seek to acquire oil and gas properties.  Although we perform reviews of acquired properties that we believe are consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor do they permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential.  Even when problems with a property are identified, we often assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties.  
	There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties.  Actual results may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. 
	In addition, acquisitions may have adverse effects on our operating results, particularly during the periods in which the operations of acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations.

Terrorist activities and military and other actions could adversely affect our business. 

	Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as the military or other actions taken in response to these acts, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets.  The United States government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations.  These actions could adversely affect us in unpredictable ways, including the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which we rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. 

Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. 

	We compete with major integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for acquisition of oil and gas leases, properties and reserves, equipment and labor required to explore, develop and operate those properties and the marketing of crude oil and natural gas production.  Higher recent crude oil and natural gas prices have increased the costs of properties available for acquisition and there are a greater number of companies with the financial resources to pursue acquisition opportunities. 
	Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially larger than those we possess and have established strategic long-term positions and maintain strong governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for drilling rights.  In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil and natural gas production, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and the application of government regulations.  We also compete in attracting and retaining personnel, including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists. 

We have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. 

	We make, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development, production, exploration and abandonment of our oil and gas reserves.  We intend to finance our capital expenditures primarily through cash flow from operations, commercial paper and to a lesser extent and if necessary, bank borrowings, public and private equity and debt offerings.  Lower crude oil and natural gas prices, however, would  
	15
	reduce our cash flow.  Further, if the condition of the capital markets materially declines, we might not be able to obtain financing on terms we consider acceptable.  In addition, a substantial rise in interest rates would decrease our net cash flows available for reinvestment.
ITEM 1B