ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.

Regulation

	United States Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production.  Natural gas and crude oil production operations are subject to various types of regulation, including regulation in the United States by state and federal agencies.

	United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion.  Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have issued rules and regulations which, among other things, require permits for the drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural gas and liquid hydrocarbon resources through proration and restrictions on flaring, require drilling bonds and regulate environmental and safety matters.  

	A substantial portion of EOG's oil and gas leases in Utah, New Mexico, Wyoming and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Minerals Management Service (MMS), both federal agencies.  Operations conducted by EOG on federal oil and gas leases must comply with numerous statutory and regulatory restrictions.  Certain operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate permits issued by the BLM and the MMS.

	BLM and MMS leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring compliance with detailed regulations and, in the case of offshore leases, orders pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (which are subject to change by the MMS). Such offshore operations are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, including the need for prior MMS approval for exploration, development, and production plans, stringent engineering and construction specifications applicable to offshore production facilities, regulations restricting the flaring or venting of production, and regulations governing the plugging and abandonment of offshore wells and the removal of all production facilities.  Under certain circumstances, the MMS may require operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination could adversely affect EOG's interests.

	Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids by EOG are made at unregulated market prices.

	The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (NGPA). These statutes are administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Effective January 1, 1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by EOG of its own production.  All other sales of natural gas by EOG, such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, remain jurisdictional sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible terms and conditions.  Consequently, all of EOG's sales of natural gas currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions.  EOG's jurisdictional sales, however, are subject to the future possibility of greater federal oversight, including the possibility that the FERC might prospectively impose more r
estrictive conditions on such sales.

	EOG owns, directly or indirectly, certain natural gas pipelines that it believes meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA.  State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental, and in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements, but does not generally entail rate regulation.  EOG's gathering operations could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services.

	EOG's natural gas gathering operations also may be, or
become, subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design,
installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of
such facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters
are considered and/or adopted from time to time. Although 
	8
	EOG cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation
might have on its operations, the industry could be required to incur additional
capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and
regulatory changes.

	Proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the state legislatures, the FERC, the state regulatory commissions and the federal and state courts. EOG cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become effective.  It should also be noted that the natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less regulated approach currently being followed by the FERC will continue indefinitely.

	Environmental Regulation - United States.  Various federal, state and local laws and regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, affect EOG's operations and costs as a result of their effect on natural gas and crude oil exploration, development and production operations and could cause EOG to incur remediation or other corrective action costs in connection with a release of regulated substances, including crude oil, into the environment.  In addition, EOG has acquired certain oil and gas properties from third parties whose actions with respect to the management and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under EOG's control.  Under environmental laws and regulations, EOG could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators.  In addition, EOG could be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for oil and gas properti
es in which EOG owns an interest but is not the operator.  Compliance with such laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had a material adverse effect on EOG's operations or financial condition. It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations but, inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. EOG also could incur costs related to the clean up of sites to which it sent regulated substances for disposal or to which it sent equipment for cleaning, and for damages to natural resources or other claims related to releases of regulated substances at such sites.  

	EOG is aware of the increasing focus of local, national and international regulatory bodies on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change issues.  EOG believes that its strategy to reduce GHG emissions throughout our operations is in the best interest of the environment and a generally good business practice.  EOG will continue to review the risks to the company associated with all environmental matters, including climate change.

	Canadian Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production.  The crude oil and natural gas industry in Canada is subject to extensive controls and regulations imposed by various levels of government.  These regulatory authorities may impose regulations on or otherwise intervene in the oil and natural gas industry with respect to prices, taxes, transportation rates, the exportation of the commodity and, possibly, expropriation or cancellation of contract rights.  Such regulations may be changed from time to time in response to complaints or economic or political conditions.  The implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and natural gas industry could reduce demand for these commodities, could increase EOG's costs and may have a material adverse impact on EOG's operations and financial condition.  

	It is not expected that any of these controls or regulations will affect EOG operations in a manner materially different than they would affect other oil and gas companies of similar size; however, EOG is unable to predict what additional legislation or amendments may be enacted or how such additional legislation or amendments may affect EOG's operations and financial condition. 

	In addition, each province has regulations that govern land tenure, royalties, production rates and other matters.  The royalty regime is a significant factor in the profitability of crude oil and natural gas production.  Royalties payable on production from private lands are determined by negotiations between the mineral owner and the lessee, although production from such lands is also subject to certain provincial taxes and royalties.  Crown royalties are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, and the rate of royalties payable generally depends in part on prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date and the type or quality of the petroleum product produced. 

	In October 2007, the Alberta Government announced a new
oil and gas royalty framework to take effect in January 2009. The new framework
establishes new royalties for conventional oil, natural gas and bitumen that are
linked to price and production levels and apply to both new and existing
conventional oil and gas activities and oil sands projects. Under the new
framework, the formula for conventional oil and natural gas royalties will be
set by a 
	9
	sliding rate formula, dependant on the market price and
production volumes. Royalty rates for conventional oil will range from 0% to
50%. New natural gas royalty rates will range from 5% to 50%.

	The implementation of the new framework is subject to certain risks and uncertainties. The significant changes to the royalty regime require new legislation, changes to existing legislation and regulation and development of proprietary software to support the calculation and collection of royalties.  In addition, certain proposed changes contemplate further public and/or industry consultation. Accordingly, there may be modifications introduced to the new framework prior to its implementation in January 2009.

	Environmental Regulation - Canada.  All phases of the crude oil and natural gas industry in Canada are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian federal, provincial and municipal laws and regulations.  Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances to the environment. These laws and regulations also require that facility sites and other properties associated with EOG's operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities.  In addition, new projects or changes to existing projects may require the submission and approval of environmental assessments or permit applications.  These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and t
he clear trend is to place increasingly stringent limitations on activities that may affect the environment.  Compliance with such laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations or financial condition. It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations, but, inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the effect on EOG's operations and financial condition. 

	Spills and releases from EOG's properties may have resulted, or may result, in soil and groundwater contamination in certain locations.  Such contamination is not unusual within the crude oil and natural gas industry. Any contamination found on, under or originating from the properties may be subject to remediation requirements under Canadian laws.  In addition, EOG has acquired certain oil and gas properties from third parties whose actions with respect to the management and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under EOG's control.  Under Canadian laws and regulations, EOG could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators.  In addition, EOG could be held responsible for oil and gas properties in which EOG owns an interest but is not the operator.  

	Canada is a signatory to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and has ratified the Kyoto Protocol established thereunder to set legally binding targets to reduce nation-wide emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other GHGs.  In response to the Kyoto Protocol, the Canadian federal government introduced the Regulatory Framework for Air Emissions (Regulatory Framework) for regulating air pollution and industrial GHG emissions by establishing mandatory emissions reduction requirements on a sector basis.  Sector-specific regulations are expected to come into effect in 2010 and targets would be based on percentages rather than absolute reductions.  The Regulatory Framework also proposes a credit emissions trading system.  Additionally, regulation can take place at the provincial and municipal level.  For example, Alberta introduced the Climate Change and Emissions Management Act, which provides a framework for managing GHG by reducing spec
ified gas emissions relative to gross domestic product to an amount that is equal to or less than 50% of 1990 levels by December 31, 2020 and which imposes duties to report.  The accompanying regulation, the Specified Gas Emitters Regulation, which became effective July 1, 2007, requires mandatory emissions reductions through the use of emissions intensity targets.  The direct and indirect costs of these regulations may adversely affect EOG's business, results of operations and financial condition.

	Other International Regulation.  EOG's exploration and production operations outside the United States and Canada are subject to various types of regulations imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which EOG's operations are conducted, and may affect EOG's operations and costs within that country.  EOG currently has operations in Trinidad and the United Kingdom.  
	10

Other Matters

	Energy Prices.  Since EOG is primarily a natural gas producer, it is more significantly impacted by changes in prices of natural gas than changes in prices of crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids.  Average United States and Canada wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated, at times rather dramatically, during the last three years.  These fluctuations resulted in a 3% decrease in the average wellhead natural gas price for production in the United States and Canada received by EOG from 2006 to 2007, a decrease of 15% from 2005 to 2006, and an increase of 37% from 2004 to 2005.  In 2007, a large majority of the wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad were sold under contracts with prices which were either wholly or partially dependent on Caribbean ammonia index prices and/or methanol prices.  The remaining volumes were sold under a contract at prices partially dependent on the United States Henry Hub market prices.  The pricing mechanisms for these contracts in Trinida
d will remain the same in 2008.  In 2007, a large majority of the wellhead natural gas volumes from the United Kingdom were sold on the spot market.  The remaining volumes were sold by means of forward contracts.  The marketing strategy for the wellhead natural gas volumes in the United Kingdom is expected to remain the same in 2008.  Crude oil and condensate prices also have fluctuated during the last three years. Due to the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the availabilities of other world wide energy supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers, EOG is unable to predict what changes may occur in natural gas, crude oil and condensate, natural gas liquids, ammonia and methanol prices in the future.  For additional discussion regarding changes in natural gas and crude oil prices and the risks that such changes may present to EOG, see ITEM1A. Risk Factors.

	Including the impact of EOG's 2008 natural gas and crude oil hedges, based on EOG's tax position and the portion of EOG's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2008 for which prices have not been determined under long-term marketing contracts, EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf change in wellhead natural gas price is approximately $20 million for net income and operating cash flow.  EOG's price sensitivity in 2008 for each $1.00 per barrel change in wellhead crude oil price,
combined with the related change in natural gas liquids prices, is approximately $10 million for net income and operating cash flow.  For information regarding EOG's natural gas and crude oil hedge position as of December 31, 2007, see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

	Risk Management.  EOG engages in price risk management activities from time to time.  These activities are intended to manage EOG's exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices for natural gas and crude oil.  EOG utilizes financial commodity derivative instruments, primarily collar and price swap contracts, as the means to manage this price risk.  EOG accounts for financial commodity derivative contracts using the mark-to-market accounting method.  In addition to financial transactions, EOG is a party to various physical commodity contracts for the sale of hydrocarbons that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions.  Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended by SFAS Nos. 137, 138 and 149, these physical commodity contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception and therefore, are not subject to hedge accounting or mark-to-market accounti
ng.  The financial impact of physical commodity contracts is included in revenues at the time of settlement, which in turn affects average realized hydrocarbon prices.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Transactions.  

	All of EOG's natural gas and crude oil activities are subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of natural gas and crude oil, including blowouts, cratering and fires, each of which could result in damage to life and/or property.  Offshore operations are subject to usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.  EOG's activities are also subject to governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations.  In accordance with customary industry practices, insurance is maintained by EOG against some, but not all, of the risks.  Losses and liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to EOG to the extent not covered by insurance.  

	EOG's operations outside of the United States are subject to certain risks, including expropriation of assets, risks of increases in taxes and government royalties, renegotiation of contracts with foreign governments, political instability, payment delays, limits on allowable levels of production and currency exchange and repatriation losses, as well as changes in laws, regulations and policies governing operations of foreign companies.  Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of the risks to which EOG is subject.

	Texas Severance Tax Rate Reduction.  Natural gas production from qualifying Texas wells spudded
or completed after August 31, 1996, is entitled to a reduced severance tax rate
for the first 120 consecutive months of 
	11
	production. However, the cumulative value of the tax
reduction cannot exceed 50 percent of the drilling and completion costs incurred
on a well-by-well basis. For the impact on EOG, see ITEM 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Results of Operations - Operating and Other Expenses.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

	The current executive officers of EOG and their names and ages (as of February 28, 2008) are as follows:



Name

Age

Position

 
 
 


Mark G. Papa 

61

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Director

 
 
 


Loren M. Leiker 

54

Senior Executive Vice President, Exploration 

 
 
 


Gary L. Thomas 

58

Senior Executive Vice President, Operations

 
 
 


Robert K. Garrison

55

Executive Vice President, Exploration

 
 
 


Fredrick J. Plaeger, II

54

Senior Vice President and General Counsel

 
 
 


Timothy K. Driggers 

46

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer




	Mark G. Papa was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of EOG in August 1999, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director in September 1998, President and Chief Operating Officer in September 1997, and President in December 1996, and was President-North America Operations from February 1994 to December 1996.  Mr. Papa joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor of EOG, in 1981.  Mr. Papa is currently a director of Oil States International, Inc., an oilfield service company.  Mr. Papa is EOG's principal executive officer.

	Loren M. Leiker was elected Senior Executive Vice President, Exploration in February 2007.  He was elected Executive Vice President, Exploration in May 1998 and was subsequently named Executive Vice President, Exploration and Development in January 2000.  He was previously Senior Vice President, Exploration.  Mr. Leiker joined EOG in April 1989.

	Gary L. Thomas was elected Senior Executive Vice President, Operations in February 2007.  He was elected Executive Vice President, North America Operations in May 1998 and was subsequently named Executive Vice President, Operations in May 2002.  He was previously Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Midland, Texas office.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in July 1978.

	Robert K. Garrison was elected Executive Vice President, Exploration in February 2007.  He was elected Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Corpus Christi, Texas office in August 2004 and, prior to such election, was Vice President and General Manger of EOG's Corpus Christi, Texas office.  Mr. Garrison joined EOG in April 1995.

	Frederick J. Plaeger, II joined EOG as Senior Vice President and General Counsel in April 2007.  He served as Vice President and General Counsel of Burlington Resources Inc., an independent oil and natural gas exploration and production company, from June 1998 until its acquisition by ConocoPhillips in March 2006.  Mr. Plaeger engaged exclusively in leadership roles in  professional
legal associations from April 2006 until April 2007.

	Timothy K. Driggers was elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2007.  He was elected Vice President and Controller of EOG in October 1999 and was subsequently named Vice President, Accounting and Land Administration in October 2000 and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in August 2003.  Mr. Driggers is EOG's principal financial and accounting officer.  Mr. Driggers joined EOG in October 1999.

12
ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors 

	Our business and operations are subject to many risks.  The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial.  If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. 

A substantial or extended decline in natural gas or crude oil prices would have a material adverse effect on us.

	Prices for natural gas and crude oil fluctuate widely.  Since we are primarily a natural gas company, we are more significantly affected by changes in natural gas prices than changes in the prices for crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids.  Among the factors that can cause these price fluctuations are:

  
  the level of consumer demand;
  
  
  weather conditions;
  
  domestic drilling activity;
  
  the price and availability of
  alternative fuels, including liquefied natural gas;
  
  the proximity to, and capacity of,
  transportation facilities;
  
  worldwide economic and political
  conditions;
  
  the effect of worldwide energy
  conservation measures; and
  
  the natural and extent of
  governmental regulation and taxation, including environmental regulations.



	Our cash flow and earnings depend to a great extent on the prevailing prices for natural gas and crude oil.  Prolonged or substantial declines in these commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our liquidity, the amount of cash flow we have available for capital expenditures, our ability to maintain our credit quality and access to the credit and capital markets and our results of operations.

Our ability to sell our crude oil and natural gas production could be materially affected if we fail to obtain adequate services such as transportation and processing.

	The sale of our crude oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities.  Moreover, we deliver crude oil and natural gas through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own, and these facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions or mechanical reasons, or may not be available to us in the future.  Any significant change in market factors affecting these facilities, the availability of these facilities or our failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities on terms acceptable to us or at all could materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.   

Weather and climate may have a significant impact on our revenues and productivity. 

	Demand for natural gas and crude oil is, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts the price we receive for the commodities we produce.  In addition, our exploration and development activities and equipment can be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, and sea level changes associated with climate change, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged equipment.  Extreme weather conditions could also impact other areas of our operations, including access to our drilling and production facilities for routine operations, maintenance and repairs and the installation of new facilities.  Such extreme weather conditions and changes associated with climate change could materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.  

Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate.  Any material inaccuracies in our underlying assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves to be misstated. 

	Estimating quantities of proved natural gas and crude oil reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves is a complex process.  It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions or changes in conditions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves to be overstated or understated. 
	13
	To prepare estimates of economically recoverable natural gas and crude oil reserves and future net cash flows from our reserves, we analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas.  We also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary.  The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs.  Our actual proved reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves most likely will vary from our estimates.  Any significant variance could reduce our estimated quantities and present value of reserves, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.

If we fail to acquire or find sufficient additional reserves, our reserves and production will decline from their current levels.

	The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration and development activities, acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced.  Our future natural gas and crude oil production, specifically maintaining our production at, or increasing our production from, current levels, is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves.

Drilling natural gas and crude oil wells is a high-risk activity and subjects us to a variety of factors that we cannot control. 

	Drilling natural gas and crude oil wells, including development wells, involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive natural gas and crude oil reservoirs.  As a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells.  The presence of unanticipated pressures or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents, among other factors, may cause our drilling activities to be unsuccessful and result in a partial or total loss of our investment.  In addition, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells, as our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, and the cost of such operations may increase, as a result of a variety of factors, including: 






unexpected drilling
conditions;



title problems;



pressure or
irregularities in formations;



equipment failures or
accidents;



adverse weather
conditions;



compliance with
environmental and other governmental requirements, which may increase our costs
or restrict our activities;



costs of, or
shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, tubular materials and
equipment;



lack of
infrastructure; and



lack of trained
drilling personnel.



We incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, especially regulations relating to environmental protection, and could incur even greater costs in the future.

	Our exploration, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels, as well as by the governments and regulatory agencies in foreign countries in which we do business.  We have incurred and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental and other regulations.  Further, the regulatory environment in the natural gas and crude oil industry could change in ways that we cannot predict and that might substantially increase our costs of compliance.

	As an owner or lessee and operator of natural gas and crude oil properties, we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment.  These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas.  Changes in, or additions to, regulations regarding the protection of the environment could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
	14

	EOG is aware of the increasing focus of national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues.  We are also aware of legislation, recently proposed by the Canadian legislature, to reduce GHG emissions.  Additionally, proposed United States policy, legislation or regulatory actions may also address GHG emissions.  EOG will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation or regulations in the areas where we operate to determine the impact on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary.

We do not insure against all potential losses and could be materially and adversely affected by unexpected liabilities.

	The exploration for, and production of, natural gas and crude oil can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can damage or destroy wells or production facilities, injure or kill people, and damage property and the environment.  Moreover, our offshore operations are subject to usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions, and governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations.  We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable.  The occurrence of any of these events and any costs or liabilities incurred as a result of such events would reduce the fund
s available to us for exploration, drilling and production and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks.

	From time to time, we use derivative instruments (primarily collars and price swaps) to hedge the impact of market fluctuations of natural gas and crude oil prices on our net income and cash flow.  To the extent that we engage in hedging activities, we may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges. In addition, we are subject to risks associated with differences in prices at different locations, particularly where transportation constraints restrict our ability to deliver natural gas and crude oil volumes to the delivery point to which the hedging transaction is indexed.  

If we acquire natural gas and crude oil properties, our failure to fully identify potential problems, to properly estimate reserves or production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

	From time to time, we seek to acquire natural gas and crude oil properties.  Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired that we believe are consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor do they permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to assess fully their deficiencies and potential.  Even when problems with a property are identified, we often assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements.  Moreover, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved natural gas and crude oil reserves, actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties.  Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates.  In addition, acquisitions may have material and adverse effects on 
our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations.

Terrorist activities and military and other actions could materially and adversely affect us. 

	Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets.  The United States government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations.  These actions could materially and adversely affect us in unpredictable ways, including the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in natural gas and crude oil prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which we rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terrorism, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

15

Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. 

	We compete with major integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for acquisition of natural gas and crude oil leases, properties and reserves, equipment and labor required to explore, develop and operate those properties and the marketing of natural gas and crude oil production.  Higher recent natural gas and crude oil prices have increased the costs of properties available for acquisition, and there are several companies with the financial resources to pursue acquisition opportunities. 

	In addition, many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those we possess and have established strategic long-term positions and strong governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for drilling rights.  In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for natural gas and crude oil, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and the application of government regulations.  We also compete with our competitors in attracting and retaining personnel, including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists. 

We have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. 

	We make, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development, production, exploration and abandonment of natural gas and crude oil reserves.  We intend to finance our capital expenditures primarily through our cash flow from operations and commercial paper borrowings and, to a lesser extent and if and as necessary, bank borrowings and public and private equity and debt offerings.  

	Lower natural gas and crude oil prices, however, would reduce our cash flow.  Further, if the condition of the capital markets materially declines, we might not be able to obtain financing on terms we consider acceptable.  The recent credit crisis triggered by the subprime mortgage markets and corresponding reaction by lenders to risk, generally, may increase the interest rates that the lenders require us to pay.  In addition, a substantial rise in interest rates would decrease our net cash flows available for reinvestment.  Any of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations.

	The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar.  However, certain of our subsidiaries are located in countries other than the United States and have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of certain of these foreign subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates.  Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if the value has not changed in the original currency.  These translations could result in changes to our results of operations from period to period.  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 15% of our revenues related to operations of our foreign subsidiarie
s whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.

ITEM 1B