Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the
date on which such statement is made and the Company does not intend to correct
or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.

Item 1.        Business

General

In this Form 10-K, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Equitable,”
“Equitable Resources” and “the Company” refer collectively to Equitable
Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified.

Equitable Resources, Inc. is an integrated energy
company, with an emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas supply activities
including production and gathering and natural gas distribution and
transmission.  The Company and its
subsidiaries offer energy (natural gas, and a limited amount of natural gas
liquids and crude oil) products and services to wholesale and retail customers
through two business segments: Equitable Utilities and Equitable Supply.  In December 2005, the Company discontinued
and sold the operations of its NORESCO segment, which provided energy efficiency
solutions to customers including governmental, military, institutional,
commercial and industrial end-users.

The Company was formed under the laws of Pennsylvania
by the consolidation and merger in 1925 of two companies, the older of which
was organized in 1888.  In 1984, the
corporate name was changed to Equitable Resources, Inc.

The Company and its subsidiaries had approximately
1,340 employees at the end of 2006, of which 332 employees were subject to
collective bargaining agreements.  In
January 2007, the Company and one union reached agreement on a three-year
renewal contract for various clerical employees represented by the union.  Although one union representing 14 employees
has been operating without a contract since April 19, 2004, the Company
believes that its employee relations are generally good.

The Company makes certain filings with the SEC,
including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports,
available free of charge through its website, http://www.eqt.com, as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC.  The filings are also available at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., 
Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.  Also, these filings are available on the
internet at http://www.sec.gov.  The


 6 






Company’s annual reports to shareholders, press releases and recent
analyst presentations are also available on the Company’s website.

Business  Segments

Equitable Utilities

Equitable Utilities’ operations comprise the
gathering, transportation, storage, distribution and sale of natural gas.  Equitable Utilities has both regulated and
nonregulated operations.  The regulated
activities consist of the Company’s state-regulated distribution operations and
federally-regulated pipeline and storage operations.  The nonregulated activities include the
non-jurisdictional marketing of natural gas, risk management activities for the
Company and the sale of energy-related products and services.  Equitable Utilities generated approximately ­­36%
of the Company’s net operating revenues in 2006.

Distribution Operations

Equitable Utilities’ distribution operations are
carried out by Equitable Gas Company (Equitable Gas), a division of the
Company.  The service territory for the
distribution operations includes southwestern Pennsylvania, municipalities in
northern West Virginia and field line sales, also referred to as farm tap
service, in eastern Kentucky and West Virginia. 
These areas have a rather static population and economy.  The distribution operations provide natural
gas services to approximately 274,000 customers, comprising 255,400 residential
customers and 18,600 commercial and industrial customers.  Equitable Gas purchases gas through contracts
with various sources including major and independent producers in the Gulf
Coast, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers (including an
affiliate).  These contracts contain
various pricing mechanisms, ranging from fixed prices to several different
index-related prices.

Equitable Gas’ distribution rates, terms of service,
contracts with affiliates and issuance of securities are subject to
comprehensive regulation by the PA PUC and the WV PSC.  The field line sales rates in Kentucky are
also subject to rate regulation by the Kentucky Public Service Commission.  Equitable Gas also operates a small gathering
system in Pennsylvania, which is not subject to comprehensive regulation.

The Company must usually seek approval of one or more
of its regulators prior to increasing (or decreasing) its rates.  Currently, Equitable Gas passes through to
its regulated customers the cost of its purchased gas and transportation
activities.  It is allowed to recover a
return in addition to the costs of its transportation activities.  However, the Company’s regulators do not
guarantee recovery and may require that certain costs of operation be recovered
over an extended term.  Equitable Gas has
worked with, and continues to work with, regulators to implement alternative
performance-based rates.  Equitable Gas’
tariffs for commercial and industrial customers allow for negotiated rates in
limited circumstances.  Equitable Gas has
not filed a base rate case since 1997, and its predominant approach to
maximizing value is cost control and operational excellence.  Regulators periodically audit the Company’s
compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.  The Company is not aware of any significant
non-compliance as a result of any completed audits.

Because most of its customers use natural gas for
heating purposes, Equitable Gas’ revenues are seasonal, with approximately 72%
of calendar year 2006 revenues occurring during the winter heating season (the
months of January, February, March, November and December).  Significant quantities of purchased natural
gas are placed in underground storage inventory during the off-peak season to
accommodate higher demand during the winter heating season.

On March 1, 2006, the Company entered into a
definitive agreement to acquire Dominion Resources, Inc.’s natural gas
distribution assets in Pennsylvania and in West Virginia for approximately $970
million, subject to adjustments, in a cash transaction for the stock of The
Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc. 
The transaction requires approvals from the PA PUC and the WV PSC and is
also under review by the Pennsylvania Attorney General and by the Federal Trade
Commission (FTC).  On February 9, 2007 an
administrative law judge for the PA PUC issued an initial decision approving
the stock acquisition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Joint
Petition for Settlement filed by the Company and a number of the intervening
parties.  The Joint Petition for


 7 






Settlement includes, among other things, an agreement by the Company
that Equitable Gas Company and The Peoples Natural Gas Company will not make
base rate case filings prior to January 1, 2009.  Under the Commission’s rules a period for
filing exceptions and reply exceptions has begun to run.  Based upon the thorough manner in which the
administrative law judge addressed the testimony of opposing parties, the
Company believes it likely that the PA PUC will approve the stock acquisition
when it reviews the application in March or April of 2007.  The WV PSC procedural schedule calls for
hearings in mid-May 2007.  The WV PSC
staff and consumer advocate, the Independent Oil and Gas Association of West
Virginia and the Utility Workers Union of America Local 69 Division 1 have
intervened in the West Virginia regulatory case.  The Company continues to engage in settlement
negotiations with these interveners.  The
Company is complying with the information requests of the Pennsylvania Attorney
General and the FTC and is targeting an approval timeframe not long after
receiving approval from the PA PUC.  No
assurance is given that the targeted timeframes will be achieved.  The Company’s acquisition agreement expires
on March 31, 2007 unless a closing has not occurred due to a failure to obtain
a required governmental consent or authorization and such is being diligently
pursued, in which case the expiration date is automatically extended to June
30, 2007.  The agreement will then
terminate if no closing occurs by June 30, 2007, unless the parties agree to an
extension.  The assets to be acquired
will increase: customers in the distribution operations by 475,000 or 173%;
total storage capacity by 33 Bcf or 60%, miles of gathering pipelines by 936
miles; gathered volumes by 40%; and miles of high pressure transmission by 466
miles or 42%.  Transition planning
activities have commenced at Equitable Utilities to plan for the integration of
the assets, resources, and business processes of The Peoples Natural Gas
Company and Hope Gas, Inc.’s into Equitable Resources.

Pipeline (Transportation and Storage) Operations

Equitable Utilities’ interstate pipeline operations
are carried out by Equitrans, L.P. (Equitrans). 
These operations offer gas gathering, transportation, storage and
related services to affiliates and third parties in the northeastern United States,
including but not limited to, Dominion Resources, Inc., Keyspan Corporation,
NiSource, Inc., PECO Energy Company and Amerada Hess Corporation.  In 2006, approximately 77% of transportation
volumes and approximately 62% of transportation revenues were from affiliates.

In the second quarter of 2006, the Company filed a certificate
application with the FERC for approval to build a 70-mile, 20-inch
diameter pipeline which will connect the Company-operated Kentucky hydrocarbon processing
plant in Langley, Kentucky, to the Tennessee Gas Pipeline in Carter County,
Kentucky, and will initially provide up to 130,000 dekatherms per day of firm
transportation service. The pipeline, known as The Big Sandy Pipeline, is owned
and operated by Equitrans and is targeted for completion in 2007.  Equitrans has secured most of the materials,
labor and rights-of-way necessary to complete the project.  Equitrans received a FERC certificate on
November 15, 2006, authorizing construction of the pipeline subject to certain
operational, commercial and environmental conditions.  Equitrans’ implementation plan addressed
those conditions and received FERC approval on November 29, 2006.  Capital expenditures incurred by the Company
in 2006 related to the Big Sandy Pipeline are included in the Equitable Supply
business segment.

Equitrans’
rates are subject to regulation by the FERC. 
On April 5, 2006, the FERC approved a settlement to Equitrans’
consolidated 2005 and 2004 rate case filings. 
The settlement became effective on June 1, 2006.  The settlement provided for the following:

·                  An expected annual revenue increase
of $6.0 million and an expected operating income increase of $3.2 million

·                  Replenishment of 7.1 Bcf of migrated
base gas from prior periods

·                  Consolidation of transmission assets
into a single transmission system with a system-wide rate

·                  Consolidation of gathering assets
into a single gathering system with a system-wide rate

·                  Tracking and recovery of costs
relating to compliance with the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002

·                  Redesigned contract storage services

·                  Five-year rate moratorium on
gathering rates

·                  Three-year
rate moratorium on transmission rates


 8 






Equitrans’ firm transportation contracts expire
between 2007 and 2009.  The Company
anticipates that the majority of the related volumes will be fully subscribed
when they become available.

Energy Marketing

Equitable Utilities’ unregulated marketing operations
include the non-jurisdictional marketing of natural gas at Equitable Gas,
marketing and risk management activities at Equitable Energy, LLC (Equitable
Energy), and the sale of energy-related products and services by Equitable
Homeworks, LLC.  Services and products
offered by the marketing operations include commodity procurement, delivery and
storage services, such as park and loan services, risk management and other
services for energy consumers including large industrial, utility, commercial
and institutional end-users.  Equitable
Energy also engages in trading and risk management activities for the
Company.  The objective of these
activities is to limit the Company’s exposure to shifts in market prices and to
optimize the use of the Company’s assets.

Equitable Supply

Equitable Supply’s production business develops,
produces and sells natural gas and, to a limited extent, crude oil and natural
gas liquids, in the Appalachian region of the United States.  Its gathering business consists of gathering
the Company’s and third party gas and the processing of natural gas
liquids.  Equitable Supply generated
approximately 64% of the Company’s net operating revenues in 2006.

Production

Equitable Supply’s production business, operating
through Equitable Production Company and several other affiliates (collectively
referred to as “Equitable Production”), is the largest owner of proved natural
gas reserves in the Appalachian Basin. 
The Company’s reserves are located entirely in the Appalachian Basin,
where Equitable Production currently operates approximately 12,000 producing
wells.

The Appalachian Basin is characterized by wells with
comparatively low rates of annual decline in production, long well lives, low
production costs per well and high energy content.  Many of the Company’s wells have been
producing for decades, and in some cases since the early 1900’s.  Management believes that virtually all of the
Company’s wells are low risk development wells because they are drilled in
areas known to be productive.  Many of
these wells are completed in more than one producing formation, including coal
formations in certain areas, and production from these formations may be
commingled.  The Company’s 2006 drilling
program was comprised dominantly of vertical wells, but also included
horizontal drilling.

In 2006, Equitable Production drilled 560 gross operated
wells (427 net operated wells), including 5 horizontal wells, and 95 gross
non-operated wells (28 net non-operated wells) at a success rate of nearly 100%.
 Drilling was concentrated within Equitable’s
core areas of southwestern Virginia, southeastern Kentucky and southern West
Virginia.  This activity resulted in proved
developed reserve additions of approximately 120 Bcfe.  Of the proved developed reserve additions,
approximately 60 Bcfe relates to proved undeveloped reserves that were
transferred to proved developed reserves and an equal amount relates to proved
developed extensions, discoveries and other additions that were not previously
classified as proved.

The natural gas produced by Equitable Supply is a
commodity and therefore the Company receives market-based pricing.  The market price for gas located in the
Appalachian Basin is generally higher than the price for gas located in the
Gulf Coast, largely due to the differential in the cost to transport gas to
customers in the northeastern United States.  The recent increase in production in the
Appalachian Basin by the Company and other producers is putting pressure on the
capacity of existing gathering and midstream transport systems.  As a result, the Company has entered into
certain discounted sales arrangements to ensure that its gas continues to flow.

The combination of long-lived production, low drilling
costs, high drilling completion rates and proximity to natural gas markets has
resulted in a highly fragmented operating environment in the Appalachian
Basin.  Natural gas drilling activity has
increased as suppliers in the Appalachian Basin attempt to take advantage of
higher than normal natural gas prices. 
While increased activity can place constraints on capacity of labor,
equipment, pipeline


 9 






availability and other resources in the Appalachian Basin, it also
provides opportunities for expansion of natural gas gathering activities and
potential for higher quality rigs and labor providers in the future.

Equitable Supply hedges a portion of its forecasted
natural gas production.  It also hedges
third party purchases and sales.  The
Company’s hedging strategy and information regarding its derivative instruments
are outlined in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk,” and in Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Gathering

Equitable Gathering derives its revenues from charges
to customers for use of its gathering system in the Appalachian Basin.  As of December 31, 2006, the system included
approximately 7,100 miles of gathering line located throughout West Virginia,
eastern Kentucky and southwestern Virginia. 
Over 85% of the gathering system volumes are transported to
interconnects with three major interstate pipelines: Columbia Gas Transmission,
East Tennessee Natural Gas Company and Dominion Transmission.  The gathering system also maintains
interconnects with Equitrans, the Company’s interstate pipeline affiliate.  Maintaining these interconnects provides the
Company with access to geographically diverse markets.

Gathering system sales volumes for 2006 totaled 108.6
Bcfe, of which approximately 64% related to the gathering of Equitable
Production’s gas volumes, 26% related to third party volumes, and the remainder
related to volumes in which interests were sold by the Company but which the
Company continued to operate for a fee. 
Approximately 82% of Equitable Gathering’s 2006 revenues were from
affiliates.  Due to increased operating
costs and capital investment, Equitable Gathering is, in certain cases, charging
gathering rates which are below its cost of service.  Equitable Gathering continues to pursue full
recovery of these costs by increasing rates charged to its customers.

Key competitors for new gathering systems include
independent gas gatherers and integrated Appalachian energy companies.  See “Outlook” under Equitable Supply’s
section of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” for discussion of the Company’s strategy in regards
to its midstream gathering operations.

Transfer of Gathering Assets

Effective January 1, 2006, certain gathering assets,
consisting of 1,400 miles of gathering line and related facilities with
approximately 13.3 Bcf of annual throughput, were transferred from Equitable Supply
to Equitable Utilities for segment reporting purposes.  The effect of the transfer is not material to
the results of operations or financial position of the Equitable Utilities or
Equitable Supply segments; segment results have not been restated for this
transfer.


 10 






Discontinued Operations

In the fourth
quarter of 2005, the Company sold its NORESCO domestic business for $82 million
before customary purchase price adjustments. 
In the second quarter of 2006, the Company completed the sale of the
remaining interest in its investment in IGC/ERI Pan-Am Thermal Generating
Limited (Pan Am), previously included in the NORESCO business segment, for
total proceeds of $2.6 million.  As a
result of these transactions, the Company has reclassified its financial statements
for all periods presented to reflect the operating results of the NORESCO
segment as discontinued operations.

Composition of Segment Operating Revenues

Presented below are operating revenues as a percentage
of total operating revenues for each class of products and services
representing greater than 10% of total operating revenues during the years
2006, 2005 and 2004.  


 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Equitable
  Utilities:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential natural gas sales
  
  
   
  
  
  24
  
  
  %
  
  
  26
  
  
  %
  
  
  29
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Marketed natural gas sales
  
  
   
  
  
  30
  
  
  %
  
  
  27
  
  
  %
  
  
  23
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Equitable
  Supply:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Natural gas
  equivalents sales
  
  
   
  
  
  29
  
  
  %
  
  
  30
  
  
  %
  
  
  29
  
  
  %
  
 


 

Financial Information About Segments

See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for financial information by business segment including, but not limited to,
revenues from external customers, operating income, and total assets.

Financial
Information About Geographic Areas

Substantially all of the Company’s
assets and operations are located in the continental United States.

Environmental

See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for information regarding environmental matters.


 11 






Item 1A. 
Risk Factors

Risks Relating
to Our Business

In addition to the other information contained in this
Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our
business.  Please note that additional
risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may
also have a negative impact on our business and operations.

Natural gas
price volatility may have an adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and
liquidity.

Our revenue, profitability and
liquidity depend on the price for natural gas. 
The markets for natural gas are volatile and fluctuations in prices will
affect our financial results.  Natural
gas prices are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which
include: weather conditions; the supply of and demand for natural gas; national
and worldwide economic and political conditions; the price and availability of
alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on,
transportation facilities; and government regulations, such as regulation of
natural gas transportation, royalties and price controls.

Increases in natural gas prices
may be accompanied by or result in increased well drilling costs,
increased deferral of purchased gas costs for our distribution operations,
increased production taxes, increased lease operating expenses, increased
exposure to credit losses resulting from potential increases in uncollectible
accounts receivable from our distribution customers, increased volatility in
seasonal gas price spreads for our storage assets, and increased customer
conservation or conversion to alternative fuels.  Significant price increases, such as occurred
in the fall and winter of 2005, subject us to margin calls on our commodity
price derivative contracts (hedging arrangements, including futures contracts,
swap agreements and exchange traded instruments) which require us to post
significant amounts of cash collateral with our hedge counterparties.  The cash collateral, which is
interest-bearing, provided to our hedge counterparties is returned to us in
whole or in part upon a reduction in forward market prices, depending on
the amount of such reduction, or in whole upon settlement of the related hedged
transaction.  In such cases we are,
however, exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties of
their obligations under the derivative contracts.  In addition, to the extent we have hedged our
current production at prices below the current market price, we are unable to
benefit fully from the increase in the price of natural gas.

Lower natural gas prices,
increases in our estimates of development costs or changes to our production
assumptions may result in our having to make downward adjustments to our
estimated proved reserves, change our production plans, and incur non-cash
charges to earnings.

Our failure to
assess production opportunities based on market conditions could negatively
impact our long-term growth prospects for our production business.

Our goal of sustaining long-term growth for our
production business is contingent upon our ability to identify production
opportunities based on market conditions. 
Successfully identifying production opportunities involves a high degree
of business experience, knowledge and careful evaluation of potential
opportunities, along with subjective judgments and assumptions which may prove
to be incorrect.

Our failure to develop and maintain the necessary
infrastructure to successfully deliver gas to market may adversely affect our
earnings, cash flows and results of operations.

Our gas delivery depends
on the availability of adequate transportation infrastructure.  We have announced a significant investment in
transportation infrastructure (the Big Sandy Pipeline) which is intended to
address a lack of capacity on and access to existing transportation pipelines
as well as curtailments on such pipelines. 
We are also planning an upgrade to the Company-operated hydrocarbon
processing plant in Langley, Kentucky for completion in early 2008.  Our infrastructure development program can
involve significant risks, including those related to timing and cost overruns
and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, materials, and
a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility,
government approvals, title problems, geology and other factors.  In addition, we may not be able to
obtain sufficient third party transportation contracts to recover the costs of
our infrastructure development program. 
We also deliver to and are served by third party gas gathering,
transportation,


 12 






processing and storage facilities which are limited in
number and geographically concentrated. 
An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities
could result in material adverse consequences to us.

The amount and timing of actual future gas
production is difficult to predict and may vary significantly from our
estimates which may reduce our earnings.

Our future success depends on our ability to develop
additional gas reserves that are economically recoverable and to maximize
existing well production, and our failure to do so may reduce our
earnings.  We have expanded our drilling
program in recent years, and we have subsequently announced further
expansion.  Our drilling of development
wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing and cost
overruns and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital,
leases, rigs and a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas
price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology and other
factors.  Drilling for natural gas can be
unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not
produce sufficient revenues to return a profit due to inadequate well operation
and compressor availability.  Without
continued successful development or acquisition activities, our reserves and
revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production.

We may engage in acquisition and disposition strategies that
involve a number of inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize
anticipated benefits and may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and
results of operations.

On March 1, 2006, we signed a purchase agreement to
acquire the capital stock of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc.
from Consolidated Natural Gas Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion
Resources, Inc.  In addition, we intend
to continue to strategically position our business in order to improve our
ability to compete.  Acquisitions, joint
ventures and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such
as assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities
and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the
potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; the constraints
imposed by regulators in approving such transactions; the potential for unions
of an acquired business to strike; our ability to achieve identified financial
and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other
transaction; demands on management related to the increase in size after an
acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and
economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction.  We may be unable to realize, or do so
within any particular time frame, the cost reductions, cash flow increases or
other synergies expected to result from such transactions.  In addition, various factors including
prevailing market conditions and the incursion of related contingent
liabilities could negatively impact the benefits we receive from transactions.

If we fail to achieve our strategic or financial goals
in any acquisition or disposition transaction, it could have a significant
adverse affect on our earnings, cash flows and results of operations.  Furthermore, if we borrow money to finance an
acquisition, which we plan to do in connection with the acquisition of The
Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc., our failure to achieve our
stated goals could impact our ability to repay such borrowings or other
borrowings and could weaken our financial condition.  Moreover, additional debt could increase our
vulnerability to the effects of interest rate movements.

We are subject to risks associated with the
operation of our pipelines and facilities.

Our business operations are subject to all of the
inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the production,
transportation, storage and distribution of natural gas.  These risks could result in substantial
losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and
destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage.  As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in
legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of
business.  There can be no assurance that
insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability of such losses will be
adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future
claims for personal and property damage or that such levels of insurance will
be available in the future at economical prices.


 13 






Our need to
comply with comprehensive, complex and sometimes unpredictable government
regulations may increase our costs and limit our revenue growth, which may
result in reduced earnings.

Significant portions of our
gathering, transportation, storage and distribution businesses are subject to
state and federal regulation including regulation of the rates which we
may assess our customers.  The
agencies that regulate our rates may prohibit us from realizing a level of
return which we believe is appropriate. 
These restrictions may take the form of imputed revenue
credits, cost disallowances (including purchased gas cost recoveries) and/or
expense deferrals.  Additionally, we
may be required to provide additional assistance to low income residential
customers to help pay their bills.

We are subject to laws,
regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state
and local, as well as foreign authorities relating to protection of the
environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements
that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and
disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated
sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection,
restoration of drilling properties after drilling is completed, pipeline safety
and work practices related to employee health and safety.  Complying with these requirements could have
a significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position.  If we fail to comply with these requirements,
even if caused by factors beyond our control, such failure could result in the
assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us.

The rates of federal, state and local taxes applicable to
the industries in which we operate, including production taxes paid by Equitable
Supply, which often fluctuate, could be increased by the respective taxing
authorities.  In addition, the tax laws,
rules and regulations that affect our business could change. Any such
increase or change could adversely impact our cash flows and profitability.

See Item 7A, “Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for further discussion
regarding the Company’s exposure to market risks, including the risks
associated with our use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices.

Item 1B