Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
 
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the Company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
In reviewing any agreements incorporated by reference in or filed with this Form 10-K, please remember such agreements are included to provide information regarding the terms of such agreements and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about the Company. The agreements may contain representations and warranties by the Company, which should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties should those statements prove to be inaccurate. The representations and warranties were made only as of the date of the relevant agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in such agreement and are subject to more recent developments.  Accordingly, these representations and warranties alone may not describe the actual state of affairs as of 
the date they were made or at any other time.
 
6






Table of Contents
 
PART I
 
Item 1.        Business
 
General
 
EQT Corporation (EQT or the Company) conducts its business through three business segments: EQT Production, EQT Midstream and Distribution. EQT Production is one of the largest natural gas producers in the Appalachian Basin with 5.2 Tcfe of proved reserves across 3.5 million acres as of December 31, 2010.  EQT Midstream provides gathering, transmission and storage services for the Company’s produced gas and to independent third parties in the Appalachian Basin. Until February 1, 2011, EQT Midstream also provided processing services. Distribution, through its regulated natural gas distribution subsidiary, Equitable Gas Company, LLC (Equitable Gas), distributes and sells natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers in southwestern Pennsylvania, West Virginia and eastern Kentucky, operates a small gathering system in Pennsylvania and pro
vides off-system sales activities which include the purchase and delivery of gas to customers.
 
EQT has 5.2 Tcfe of proved reserves across three major plays: Marcellus Shale, Huron Shale and CBM, all located in the Appalachian Basin.  The Company’s strategy is to maximize value by profitably developing its extensive acreage position.  EQT Production is focused on continuing its significant organic reserve and production growth through its drilling program and believes that it is a technological leader in drilling shale.
 
EQT’s proved reserves increased by 28% in 2010 and by 121% over the past five years, while the Company’s cost structure remained at an industry leading level.  EQT’s 2010 finding and development cost is among the lowest in the industry at $0.70 per Mcfe.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s proved reserves, including proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves, and the resource plays to which the reserves relate are as follows:
 



(Bcfe)    

     

Marcellus   Shale    

     

Huron *    

     

Coalbed   Methane    

     

Total    

        


Proved   Developed    

     

577    

     

1,797    

     

161    

     

2,535    

        


Proved   Undeveloped    

     

2,302    

     

383    

     

–    

     

2,685    

        


Total   Proved Reserves     

     

2,879    

     

2,180    

     

161    

     

5,220    

          
 
*  The Company includes the Lower Huron, Cleveland, Berea sandstone and other Devonian shales, except Marcellus, in its Huron play.  Also included in the Huron play is 705 Bcfe of reserves from non-shale formations accessed through vertical wells.
 
A key assumption in booking proved undeveloped reserves is the Company’s 5-year capital investment estimate. The five-year plan used in estimating the Company’s proved reserves anticipates drilling expenditures of  $2.5 billion, which is consistent with the pace of development that the Company believes can be funded using the Production segment’s portion of internally-generated cash flows and does not require additional capital infusions or asset sales. Assuming that future annual production from these reserves is consistent with 2010, the remaining reserve life of the Company’s total proved reserves as calculated by dividing total proved reserves by current year produced volumes is in excess of 37 years.
 
The Company’s natural gas wells are generally low-risk with long lives and low development and production costs. The gas produced from these wells has a high energy content and is within close proximity to natural gas markets. Many of these wells have been producing for decades, with several in production since early in the 20th century.  Also, the gas produced from most of the Company’s Huron wells and some of its Marcellus Shale wells is liquids-rich.
 
In the Marcellus Shale play, EQT applies proprietary extended lateral horizontal drilling technology to its approximate 520,000 acres and 2.9 Tcfe of proved reserves. Marcellus Shale wells target depths ranging from 7,000 to 8,000 feet with an average lateral spacing of 1,000 feet.
 
7






Table of Contents
 
EQT is also focusing its highly successful horizontal drilling program in the Huron play where the Company has approximately 2.7 million acres and 2.2 Tcfe of proved reserves.  This technology has been used in fractured horizontal single lateral wells, stacked horizontal wells and extended lateral wells. Wells in the Huron play are drilled to depths ranging from 2,500 to 6,500 feet with an average lateral spacing of 1,000 feet.
 
Less than 5% of the Company’s proved reserves are attributable to CBM as of December 31, 2010. Substantially all of the Company’s CBM wells are drilled vertically and do not contain natural gas liquids.
 
Horizontal wells drilled by the Company over the past five years are as follows:
 



     

     

     

     

For the years ended December 31,    

     

     

        


Gross   Horizontal Wells   Drilled     

     

2010    

     

2009    

     

2008    

     

2007    

     

2006    

        


Marcellus Shale    

     

90    

     

46    

     

7    

     

–    

     

–    

        


Huron    

     

236    

     

356    

     

381    

     

88    

     

5    

        


Other    

     

–    

     

1    

     

1    

     

–    

     

–    

        


Total Horizontal    

     

326    

     

403    

     

389    

     

88    

     

5    

          
 
The Company invested approximately $888 million on well development (primarily drilling) in 2010. Sales volumes increased 34% in 2010 over 2009.
 
During 2010, the Company acquired approximately 58,000 net acres in the Marcellus Shale from a group of private operators and landowners. The acreage is located primarily in Cameron, Clearfield, Elk and Jefferson counties in Pennsylvania. The purchase included a 200 mile gathering system, with associated rights of way, and approximately 100 producing vertical wells.
 
To support the growth of the Marcellus Shale play, the Company is increasing its available gathering and transmission system capacity in the region. During 2010, the Company completed construction of the Ingram Gathering system which added 4,800 horsepower of compression and 105 MMcfe per day of delivery capacity to Equitrans L.P. (Equitrans, EQT’s interstate pipeline subsidiary) piplines for EQT production in Greene County, Pennsylvania. Equitrans has a total Pennsylvania gathering capacity of 130 MMcfe. In northern West Virginia, EQT completed the Doddridge Gathering System Expansion which is capable of delivering 60 MMcfe per day of EQT’s production from north central West Virginia into the western leg of the Equitrans system. This brings total Marcellus Shale gathering capacity in West Virginia to approximately 85 MMcfe per day. Equitrans also completed Phase 
1 of the Equitrans Marcellus expansion project which added approximately 100,000 Dth per day of new delivery capacity to Equitrans’ interconnections with five interstate pipeline facilities: Texas Eastern Transmission, Columbia Gas Transmission, National Fuel Gas Supply, Tennessee Gas Pipeline and Dominion Transmission.
 
Also, the Company has approximately 10,900 miles of gathering lines and 770 miles of transmission lines. EQT’s 14 natural gas storage reservoirs provide approximately 500 MMcf per day of peak delivery capability and 63 Bcf of storage capacity, of which 32 Bcf is working gas.  EQT’s storage reservoirs are clustered in two geographic areas connected to its Equitrans pipeline, with eight in northern West Virginia and six in southwestern Pennsylvania.
 
Through EQT’s gas marketing subsidiary, EQT Energy, LLC, (EQT Energy), the Company provides optimization of capacity and storage assets, NGL sales and gas sales to commercial and industrial customers within its operational footprint through 8.2 Bcf of leased storage related assets and approximately 420,000 Dth per day of contractual pipeline capacity from third parties.
 
At December 31, 2010, EQT also owned and operated Kentucky Hydrocarbon, a gas processing facility in Langley, Kentucky. On February 1, 2011, EQT Midstream sold the processing facility and associated NGL pipeline
 
8






Table of Contents
 
to MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. (MarkWest) for $230 million subject to customary purchase price adjustments. MarkWest agreed to commence the installation of a new 60 MMcfd cryogenic processing plant to expand the Langley cryogenic processing capacity.  In conjunction with the closing of the sale of the Langley plant, EQT executed a long-term agreement with MarkWest to provide processing services for its Kentucky Huron Shale gas and extended its existing agreement with MarkWest for NGL transportation, fractionation, and marketing services until 2022. In addition, MarkWest has agreed to construct a natural gas processing facility in Logansport, WV by the second quarter of 2012. MarkWest will then provide natural gas processing services for EQT’s Marcellus Shale production in north central West Virginia, as well as NGL transportation, fractionation and marketing services.
 
In 2008, EQT Energy executed a binding precedent agreement with Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company (TGP), a wholly owned subsidiary of El Paso Corporation, for a 15-year term that awarded the Company capacity in TGP’s 300-Line expansion project.  EQT Energy’s capacity in the project is expected to be 350,000 Dth per day, giving EQT access to consumer markets from the Gulf Coast to the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast. TGP’s expected turn in line date for the 300-Line expansion project is late 2011.
 
Capital spending for well development (primarily drilling) in 2011 is expected to be approximately $691 million to support the drilling of up to 167 gross wells, including 86 gross Marcellus Shale wells, and approximately $244 million for midstream infrastructure. Sales volumes are expected to exceed 175 Bcfe for an anticipated natural gas sales volume growth of 30% in 2011. A substantial portion of the Company’s 2011 drilling efforts are expected to be focused on drilling extended lateral Marcellus Shale wells. The Company currently believes that the capital spending plan will not require the Company to access capital markets through the end of the year.
 
Strategy
 
EQT’s strategy is to maximize value by profitably developing the Company’s substantial acreage position enabled by the Company’s extensive gathering and transmission assets, low cost structure, close proximity to the northeastern United States markets and the high Btu content of much of its produced natural gas.  The Company is focused on continuing its significant organic reserve and production growth through its developmental drilling program, particularly in the Marcellus Shale. The Company is also investing in developmental geological and geophysical studies to optimize well placement.
 
The Company believes that it is a technological leader in drilling shale. In the Marcellus Shale play, EQT Production believes its state of the art drilling and completion techniques have produced industry leading results. In the Huron play, the use of air in horizontal drilling has proven to be a cost effective technology which the Company has efficiently deployed. In both plays, the Company has used technology to increase lateral length. Recoveries from extended laterals have been proportional to the length increase. These industry leading processes have also allowed the Company to reduce development costs.  Based on these favorable results, the Company has incorporated extended lateral wells into its preferred standard operating procedures for the Marcellus and Huron Shale plays.  The Company expects to continue increasing the average lateral length. In the Ma
rcellus Shale, lateral lengths will be limited by lease boundaries unless the Company is able to pool acreage with neighboring leaseholders.
 
Because substantially all of the Company’s acreage is held by production or in fee, EQT Production is able to develop its acreage in the most economic manner rather than focusing on drilling less economic wells in order to retain acreage. Additionally, the Company continues to demonstrate the quality of its Marcellus Shale acreage with recent successful wells in North Central West Virginia and Central Pennsylvania.  The Company’s core development area in Greene County, Pennsylvania continues to produce industry leading Marcellus Shale results in terms of initial production rates and finding and development costs.
 
The Company believes the location of the Company’s midstream assets across a wide area of the Marcellus Shale in southwestern Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia uniquely positions the Company for growth. In support of the Marcellus Shale growth, EQT Midstream strives to increase gathering capacity and improve capital efficiency by utilizing existing high pressure assets and completing modular compression construction. In West Virginia, completion of a compression facility has added significant capacity in the core Doddridge County area that the Company expects to develop in 2011.
 
9






Table of Contents
 
In 2011, EQT plans to continue its investment in gathering and transmission capacity in the high-potential Marcellus Shale area. This investment includes 130 MMcfe per day of incremental gathering capacity. In addition, over the next two years, the Equitrans Marcellus expansion project is expected to add approximately 550 MMcfe per day of incremental transmission capacity. The combination of these investments with the existing assets in the Huron region provide a platform for sales growth and will help to mitigate curtailments and increase the flexibility and reliability of the Company’s gathering systems in transporting gas to market.
 
In light of the anticipated Marcellus Shale production growth, the Company is also considering partnering with third parties and other arrangements, including a potential sale of the Big Sandy Pipeline, to unlock the value of mature assets and redeploy such value into higher-growth Marcellus Shale development.
 
The Company is also helping to build demand for natural gas. As a result of the $700,000 grant received from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, Equitable Gas will be constructing a public-access natural gas fueling station in Pittsburgh, PA. In conjunction with this project, the Company is promoting the use of NGV fleet vehicles. Distribution is actively increasing the supply of locally produced Marcellus Shale gas flowing to its customers and assisting customers to obtain incentives and rebates as a result of conversions to natural gas from other fuel sources.
 
See “Capital Resources and Liquidity” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K for details regarding the Company’s capital expenditures.
 
Markets and Customers
 
Natural Gas Sales:  EQT’s produced natural gas is sold to marketers, utilities and industrial customers located mainly in the Appalachian area.  Natural gas is a commodity and therefore the Company receives market-based pricing.  The market price for natural gas can be volatile as evidenced by the significant increase in natural gas prices in early through mid 2008 followed by decreases later in 2008 and in 2009.  The market price for gas located in the Appalachian Basin is generally higher than the price for gas located in the Gulf Coast, largely due to the differential in the cost to transport gas to customers in the northeastern United States.  In order to protect cash flow from undue exposure to the risk of changing commodity prices, the Company hedges a portion of it
s forecasted natural gas production.  The Company’s hedging strategy and information regarding its derivative instruments is outlined in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and in Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues in 2010 or 2009.  Sales to one third-party marketer accounted for approximately 13% of revenues for EQT Production for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
NGL Sales:  As of December 31, 2010, the Company processed natural gas in order to extract heavier liquid hydrocarbons (propane, iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline) from the natural gas stream, primarily from EQT Production’s produced gas.  NGLs were recovered at EQT’s Kentucky Hydrocarbon facility and transported to a fractionation plant owned by a third-party for separation into commercial components.  The third-party marketed these components for a fee. The Company also had contractual processing arrangements whereby the Company sold gas to a third-party processor at a weighted average liquids component price. Subsequent to the closing of the sale of the Kentucky Hydrocarbon facility to MarkWest, the processing of the Company’s produced natural gas has
 been performed by a third-party vendor.
 
10







Table of Contents
 
Average well-head sales price:
 



     

     

2010    

     

2009    

     

2008       


     

     

     

     

     

     

        


Average well-head sales   price per Mcfe sold (net of hedges)    

     

$    

3.93    

     

$    

4.11    

     

$    

5.51       


Average well-head sales   price per Mcfe sold (excluding hedges)    

     

$    

3.43    

     

$    

2.79    

     

$    

8.42         
 
Natural Gas Gathering:  EQT Midstream derives gathering revenues from charges to customers for use of its gathering system in the Appalachian Basin.  The gathering system volumes are transported to three major interstate pipelines: Columbia Gas Transmission, East Tennessee Natural Gas Company and Dominion Transmission.  The gathering system also maintains interconnects with Equitrans. Maintaining these interconnects provides the Company with access to geographically diverse markets.
 
Gathering system transportation volumes for 2010 totaled 195,642 BBtu, of which approximately 67% related to gathering for EQT Production, 19% related to third-party volumes and 2% related to volumes for other subsidiaries of the Company.  The remainder related to volumes in which interests were sold by the Company but which the Company continued to operate for a fee.  Revenues from other subsidiaries accounted for approximately 85% of 2010 gathering revenues.
 
Natural Gas Transmission and Storage: Services offered by EQT Energy include commodity procurement, sales, delivery, risk management and other services, including the processing of natural gas liquids for third parties.  These operations are executed using Company owned and operated or contracted transmission and underground storage facilities as well as other contractual capacity arrangements with major pipeline and storage service providers in the eastern United States.  EQT Energy uses leased storage capacity and firm transportation capacity to take advantage of price differentials and arbitrage opportunities.  EQT Energy also engages in risk management and energy trading activities for the Company.  The objective of these activities is to limit the Company’s exposure to shi
fts in market prices and to optimize the use of the Company’s assets.
 
Customers of EQT Midstream’s gas transportation, storage, risk management and related services are affiliates and third parties in the northeastern United States, including, but not limited to, Dominion Resources, Inc., Keyspan Corporation, NiSource, Inc., PECO Energy Company and UGI Energy Services, Inc.  EQT Energy’s commodity procurement, sales, delivery, risk management and other services are offered to natural gas producers and energy consumers, including large industrial, utility, commercial and institutional end-users.
 
Equitrans’ firm transportation contracts expire between 2011 and 2023.  The Company anticipates that the capacity associated with these expiring contracts will be remarketed or used by affiliates such that the capacity will remain fully subscribed.  In 2010, approximately 85% of transportation volumes and approximately 89% of transportation revenues were from affiliates.
 
Natural Gas Distribution: The Company’s Distribution segment provides natural gas distribution services to approximately 276,500 customers, consisting of 257,900 residential customers and 18,600 commercial and industrial customers in southwestern Pennsylvania, municipalities in northern West Virginia and field line sales, also referred to as farm tap service, in eastern Kentucky and West Virginia.  These service areas have a rather static population and economy.
 
Equitable Gas purchases gas through contracts with various sources including major and independent producers in the Gulf Coast, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers (including an affiliate).  The gas purchase contracts contain various pricing mechanisms, ranging from fixed prices to several different index-related prices. The cost of purchased gas is Equitable Gas’ largest operating expense and is passed through to customers utilizing mechanisms approved by the PA PUC and WV PSC. Equitable Gas is not permitted to profit from fluctuations in gas costs.
 
Because most of its customers use natural gas for heating purposes, Equitable Gas’ revenues are seasonal, with approximately 71% of calendar year 2010 revenues occurring during the winter heating season (the months of January, February, March, November and December). Significant quantities of purchased natural gas are placed in
 
11






Table of Contents
 
underground storage inventory during the off-peak season to accommodate higher demand during the winter heating season.
 
Competition
 
Natural gas producers compete in the acquisition of properties, the search for and development of reserves, the production and sale of natural gas and the securing of labor and equipment required to conduct operations. Competitors include independent oil and gas companies, major oil and gas companies and individual producers and operators.  Key competitors for new gathering systems include independent gas gatherers and integrated energy companies.  Natural gas marketing activities compete with numerous other companies offering the same services.  Some of these competitors are affiliates of companies with extensive pipeline systems that are used for transportation from producers to end-users.  As a regulated utility, the Company’s distribution operation experiences only limited competition with other local distribution companies in its operating area
, but experiences usuage pressures as a result of alternative fuels and conservation.
 
Regulation
 
Regulation of the Company’s Operations
 
EQT Production’s exploration and production operations are subject to various types of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including regulations related to the location of wells; the method of drilling, well construction and casing design; water withdrawal and procurement for well stimulation purposes; well production; spill prevention plans; the use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and materials incidental to oil and gas operations; surface usage and the reclamation of properties upon which wells or other facilities have been located; the plugging and abandoning of wells; the calculation, reporting and disbursement of taxes; and the gathering of production in certain circumstances, such as safety regulations.  These regulations may impact the costs of developing the Company’s natural gas resources.
 
EQT Production’s operations are also subject to conservation and correlative rights regulations, including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or field rule units; the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit or in close proximity to other wells; drilling in the vicinity of coal mining operations and certain other structures; and the unitization or pooling of natural gas properties.  Both Kentucky and Virginia allow the statutory pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development and exploration, while in West Virginia and Pennsylvania it is necessary to rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases.  In addition, state conservation laws generally limit the venting or flaring of natural gas.
 
EQT Midstream has both non-regulated and regulated operations.  The interstate natural gas transmission systems and storage operations are regulated by the FERC. For instance, the FERC approves tariffs that establish Equitrans’ rates, cost recovery mechanisms, and other terms and conditions of service to Equitrans’ customers. The fees or rates established under Equitrans’ tariffs are a function of its costs of providing services to customers, including a reasonable return on invested capital. The FERC’s authority also extends to: storage and related services; certification and construction of new facilities; extension or abandonment of services and facilities; maintenance of accounts and records; relationships between pipelines and certain affiliates; terms and conditions of service; depreciation and amortization policies; acquisition and dispositio
n of facilities; the safety of pipelines; and initiation and discontinuation of services.
 
EQT Production and EQT Midstream each engage in natural gas trading activities which are regulated by, among others, the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”).  In July 2010, federal legislation was enacted to implement various financial and governance reforms. Although many of the legislative provisions were focused on the financial and banking industries, portions of the legislation may impact the Company’s natural gas trading activities. The extent of the impact is uncertain at this time because various implementing regulations are yet to be adopted by the SEC and the CFTC.
 
Equitable Gas’ distribution rates, terms of service and contracts with affiliates are subject to comprehensive regulation by the PA PUC and the WV PSC.  The field line sales rates in Kentucky are subject to rate regulation by the Kentucky Public Service Commission.
 
12






Table of Contents
 
Equitable Gas must usually seek the approval of one or more of its regulators prior to changing its rates.  Currently, Equitable Gas passes through to its regulated customers the cost of its purchased gas and transportation activities.  Equitable Gas is allowed to recover a return in addition to the costs of its distribution and gathering delivery activities.  However, Equitable Gas’ regulators do not guarantee recovery and may require that certain costs of operation be recovered over an extended term.  On August 24, 2010, the WV PSC approved a settlement between Equitable Gas and certain parties with respect to a base rate increase in West Virginia. Equitable Gas implemented the new base rates in the third quarter of 2010.
 
As required by Pennsylvania law, Equitable Gas has a customer assistance program that assists low-income customers with paying their gas bills. The cost of this program is recovered through rates charged to other residential customers.
 
Regulators periodically audit the Company’s compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.  The Company anticipates that compliance with existing laws and regulations governing current operations will not have a material adverse effect upon its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.  However, laws and regulations applicable to the oil and gas industry are frequently amended or reinterpreted.    Moreover, the recent oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and explosion of a natural gas transmission line in California may lead to new regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations. Therefore, the Company is unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals that affect the oil and gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, regulatory agencies and the courts. The Company canno
t predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective.
 
Environmental, Health and Safety Regulation
 
The business operations of the Company are also subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations pertaining to, among other things, the release, emission or discharge of materials into the environment, the generation, storage, transportation, handling and disposal of materials (including solid and hazardous wastes), the safety of employees and the general public, or otherwise relating to pollution, preservation, remediation or protection of human health and safety, natural resources, wildlife or the environment. The Company must take into account environmental, health and safety regulations in, among other things, planning, designing, constructing, drilling, operating and abandoning wells and related surface facilities. In most instances, the regulatory frameworks relate to the handling of drilling and production materials, t
he disposal of drilling and production wastes, the protection of water and air and the protection of people.
 
The Company has established procedures for ongoing evaluation of its operations to identify potential environmental exposures and to assure compliance with regulatory policies and procedures.  Ongoing expenditures for compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including investments in plant and facilities to meet environmental requirements, have not been material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
Vast quantities of natural gas deposits exist in shale and other formations. It is customary in the Company’s industry to recover natural gas from these shale formations through the use of hydraulic fracturing, combined with sophisticated horizontal drilling. Hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations underground where water, sand and other additives are pumped under high pressure into a shale gas formation. These formations are geologically separated and isolated from fresh ground water supplies by protective rock layers. The Company’s well construction practices include installation of multiple layers of protective steel casing surrounded by cement that are specifically designed and installed to protect freshwater aquifers. Legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal level and in some states have sought
 to render more stringent permitting and compliance requirements for hydraulic fracturing. If passed into law, the additional permitting requirements for hydraulic fracturing may increase the cost to obtain permits for or to construct wells.
 
Climate Change
 
Legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of discussion or implementation. Effective January 1, 2011, the EPA began regulating greenhouse gas
 
13






Table of Contents
 
emissions by subjecting new facilities and major modifications to existing facilities that emit large amounts of greenhouse gases to the permitting requirements of the federal Clean Air Act.  In addition, the U.S. Congress has been considering bills that would establish a cap-and-trade program to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Legislation or regulation that restricts carbon emissions could increase the Company’s cost of environmental compliance by requiring the Company to install new equipment to reduce emissions from larger facilities and/or purchase emission allowances. Climate change and greenhouse gas legislation or regulation could also delay or otherwise negatively affect efforts to obtain permits and other regulatory approvals with regard to existing and new facilities, or impose additional monitoring and reporting requirements. Conversely, legislation or regulation th
at sets a price on or otherwise restricts carbon emissions could also benefit the Company by increasing demand for natural gas, because the combustion of natural gas results in substantially fewer carbon emissions per Btu of heat generated than other fuels, such as coal. The effect on the Company of any new legislative or regulatory measures will depend on the particular provisions that are ultimately adopted.
 
Employees
 
The Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 1,815 employees at the end of 2010. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 12% of the Company’s workforce is subject to collective bargaining agreements, and the collective bargaining agreement which covers approximately 9% of the Company’s workforce is scheduled to expire during September 2011.
 
Holding Company Reorganization
 
On June 30, 2008, the former Equitable Resources, Inc. (Old EQT) entered into and completed an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Plan) under which Old EQT reorganized into a holding company structure such that a newly formed Pennsylvania corporation, also named Equitable Resources, Inc. (New EQT), became the publicly traded holding company of Old EQT and its subsidiaries.  The primary purpose of this reorganization (the Reorganization) was to separate Old EQT’s state-regulated distribution operations into a new subsidiary in order to better segregate its regulated and unregulated businesses and improve overall financing flexibility.  To effect the Reorganization, Old EQT formed New EQT, a wholly-owned subsidiary, and New EQT, in turn, formed EGC Merger Co., a Pennsylvania corporation owned solely by New EQT (MergerSub).  Under the Plan, Me
rgerSub merged with and into Old EQT with Old EQT surviving (the Merger).  The Merger resulted in Old EQT becoming a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of New EQT.  New EQT changed its name to EQT Corporation effective February 9, 2009.  Throughout this Annual Report, references to EQT, EQT Corporation and the Company refer collectively to New EQT and its consolidated subsidiaries.
 
Availability of Reports
 
The Company makes certain filings with the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments and exhibits to those reports, available free of charge through its website, http://www.eqt.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after the date they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  The filings are also available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.  These filings are also available on the internet at http://www.sec.gov.  The Company’s press releases and recent analyst presentations are also available on the Company’s website.
 
14






Table of Contents
 
Composition of Segment Operating Revenues
 
Presented below are operating revenues as a percentage of total operating revenues for each class of products and services representing greater than 10% of total operating revenues during the years 2010, 2009 and 2008.
 



     

     

2010    

     

2009    

     

2008       


EQT Production:    

     

     

     

     

     

        


Natural gas sales    

     

25%    

     

24%    

     

20%       


EQT Midstream:    

     

     

     

     

     

        


Gathering revenue    

     

13%    

     

11%    

     

7%       


Marketed natural gas sales    

     

6%    

     

5%    

     

12%       


Distribution:    

     

     

     

     

     

        


Residential natural gas   sales    

     

21%    

     

26%    

     

23%         
 
Financial Information About Segments
 
On February 1, 2011, the Company sold its natural gas processing complex in Langley, Kentucky.  Subsequent to the closing of the sale, the processing of the Company’s produced natural gas has been performed by a third-party vendor. The revenue received as a result of the fractionation of NGLs which were extracted from the Company’s produced natural gas (frac spread) was previously reported in the EQT Midstream segment in conjunction with the results of the processing activities.  As a result of the sale of the Company’s processing assets, management determined that this frac spread would be reported in the EQT Production segment as additional revenue for its produced NGL sales. The segment disclosures and discussions contained in this report have been reclassified to reflect all periods presented under the new methodology.
 
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information by business segment including, but not limited to, revenues from external customers, operating income and total assets.
 
Financial Information About Geographic Areas
 
Substantially all of the Company’s assets and operations are located in the continental United States.
 
Environmental
 
See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding environmental matters.
 
15






Table of Contents
 
Item 1A.  Risk Factors
 
Risks Relating to Our Business
 
In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects.  Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have a negative impact on our business and operations.  If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline.
 
Natural gas price volatility may have an adverse effect upon our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and liquidity.
 
Our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and liquidity depend upon the price for natural gas.  The markets for natural gas are volatile and fluctuations in prices will affect our financial results.  Natural gas prices are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which include: weather conditions; the supply of and demand for natural gas; national and worldwide economic and political conditions; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on, transportation facilities; and government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls.
 
Lower natural gas prices may result in decreases in the revenue, margin and cash flow for each of our businesses, a reduction in the construction of new transportation capacity and downward adjustments to the value of our estimated proved reserves which may cause us to incur non-cash charges to earnings.  Moreover, if we fail to control our operating costs during periods of lower natural gas prices, we could further reduce our margin. A reduction in margin or cash flow will reduce our funds available for capital expenditures and, correspondingly, our opportunities for growth.  We are also exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties in the event that changes, positive or negative, in natural gas prices result in derivative contracts with a positive fair value.
 
Increases in natural gas prices may be accompanied by or result in increased well drilling costs, increased deferral of purchased gas costs for our distribution operations, increased production taxes, increased lease operating expenses, increased exposure to credit losses resulting from potential increases in uncollectible accounts receivable from our distribution customers, increased volatility in seasonal gas price spreads for our storage assets and increased customer conservation or conversion to alternative fuels.  Significant price increases subject us to margin calls on our commodity price derivative contracts (hedging arrangements, including futures contracts, swap, collar and option agreements and exchange traded instruments) which would potentially require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral with our hedge counterparties. The cash collateral
, which is interest-bearing, provided to our hedge counterparties is returned to us in whole or in part upon a reduction in forward market prices, depending on the amount of such reduction, or in whole upon settlement of the related hedged transaction.  In addition, to the extent we have hedged our current production at prices below the current market price, we are unable to benefit fully from an increase in the price of natural gas.
 
We are subject to risks associated with the operation of our wells, pipelines and facilities.
 
Our business operations are subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the production, transportation, storage and distribution of natural gas and natural gas liquids.  These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage.  As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business.  There can be no assurance that the insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability for such losses will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or to cover all risks.<
/p>
 
16






Table of Contents
 
Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry could have an adverse effect on our operations.
 
Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry resulting from, among other things, the recent oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the explosion of a natural gas transmission line in California and concerns raised by advocacy groups about hydraulic fracturing, may lead to new state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations, which may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation.  Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits we need to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed, or burdened by requiremen
ts that restrict our ability to profitably conduct our business.
 
Strategic determinations, including the allocation of capital and other resources to strategic opportunities are challenging, and our failure to appropriately allocate capital and resources among our strategic opportunities may adversely affect our financial condition and reduce our growth rate.
 
Our future growth prospects are dependent upon our ability to identify optimal strategies for our business. In developing our 2011 business plan, we considered allocating capital and other resources to various aspects of our businesses including well-development (primarily drilling), reserve acquisitions, exploratory activity, midstream infrastructure, distribution infrastructure, corporate items and other alternatives.  We also considered our likely sources of capital.  Notwithstanding the determinations made in the development of our 2011 plan, business opportunities not previously identified periodically come to our attention, including possible acquisitions and dispositions. If we fail to identify optimal business strategies, or fail to optimize our capital investment and capital raising opportunities and the use of our other resources in furtherance of our bu
siness strategies, our financial condition and growth rate may be adversely affected.
 
Our failure to assess production opportunities based on market conditions could negatively impact our long-term growth prospects for our production business.
 
Our goal of sustaining long-term growth for our production business is contingent upon our ability to identify production opportunities based on market conditions.  Our decision to drill a prospect is subject to a number of factors which may alter our drilling schedule or our plans to drill at all. We may have difficulty drilling all of the wells before the lease term expires which could result in the loss of certain leasehold rights or we could drill wells in locations where we do not have the necessary infrastructure to deliver the gas to market.  Successfully identifying production opportunities involves a high degree of business experience, knowledge and careful evaluation of potential opportunities, along with subjective judgments and assumptions which may prove to be incorrect.  In addition, our exploration projects increase the risks inherent in our na
tural gas activities.  Specifically, seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our operations. Because we have a limited operating history in certain areas, our future operating results may be difficult to forecast, and our failure to sustain high growth rates in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.
 
We have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all.
 
We rely upon access to both short-term bank and money markets and longer-term capital markets as sources of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from operations or other sources.  Future challenges in the global financial system, including the capital markets, may adversely affect our business and our financial condition.  Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we desire, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Adverse economic and market conditions could adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables and cause our commodity hedging counterparties to be unable to perform their obligations or to seek bankruptcy protection.  Future challenges in the economy could also lead to reduced demand fo
r natural gas which could have a negative impact on our revenues and our credit ratings.
 
17






Table of Contents
 
Any downgrade of our credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities or other borrowing arrangements, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity.  We cannot be sure that our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that our rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency.  An increase in the level of our indebtedness in the future may result in a downgrade in the ratings that are assigned to our debt.  Any downgrade in our ratings could result in an increase in our borrowing costs, which would diminish financial results.
 
The amount and timing of actual future gas production is difficult to predict and may vary significantly from our estimates which may reduce our earnings.
 
Our future success depends upon our ability to develop additional gas reserves that are economically recoverable and to optimize existing well production, and our failure to do so may reduce our earnings.  Our drilling and subsequent maintenance of wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, cost overruns and operational efficiency, and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, leases, rigs and a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology and other factors.  Drilling for natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit.  Additionally, a failure to effectively and efficiently operate existing wells may cause production volumes to fall short 
of our projections.  Without continued successful development or acquisition activities, together with effective operation of existing wells, our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production.
 
Our need to comply with comprehensive, complex and sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase our costs and limit our revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings.
 
Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels.  Laws, regulations and other legal requirements have increased the cost to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon wells, gathering systems, pipelines and distribution systems.  Environmental, health and safety legal requirements govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, restoration of drilling properties after drilling is completed, pipeline safety and work practices related to employee health and safety.  Compliance with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our businesses may increase our cost of doing business.   These requirements could also subject
 us to claims for personal injuries, property damage and other damages.  Our failure to comply with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our businesses, even if as a result of factors beyond our control, could result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties and damages.
 
The rates charged to customers by our gathering, transportation, storage and distribution businesses are, in many cases, subject to state or federal regulation.  The agencies that regulate our rates may prohibit us from realizing a level of return which we believe is appropriate.  These restrictions may take the form of imputed revenue credits, cost disallowances (including purchased gas cost recoveries) and/or expense deferrals.  Additionally, we may be required to provide additional assistance to low income residential customers to help pay their bills without the ability to recover some or all of the additional assistance in rates.
 
Laws, regulations and other legal requirements are constantly changing and implementation of compliant processes in response to such changes could be costly and time consuming.  For instance, effective January 1, 2011, the EPA began regulating greenhouse gas emission by subjecting new facilities and major modifications to existing facilities that emit large emissions of greenhouse gas emissions to the permitting requirements of the Federal Clean Air Act.
 
In addition, the U.S. Congress and various states have been evaluating climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases, including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide (a byproduct of burning natural gas). Such restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to, or taxes on and the release, capture and use of greenhouse gases that could have an adverse effect on our operations.
 
18






Table of Contents
 
In addition, hydraulic fracturing is utilized to complete most of our natural gas wells. Certain environmental and other groups have suggested that additional laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed by some members of Congress to provide for such regulation. We cannot predict whether any such federal or state legislation or regulation will be enacted and if enacted how they may impact our operations, but enactment of additional laws or regulations could increase our operating costs.
 
Recent federal budget proposals have included provisions which could potentially increase and accelerate the payment of federal income taxes of independent producers of natural gas and oil. Proposals that would significantly affect us would repeal the expensing of intangible drilling costs, repeal the percentage depletion allowance and increase the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses. These changes, if enacted, will make it more costly for us to explore for and develop our natural gas resources.
 
The rates of federal, state and local taxes applicable to the industries in which we operate, including production taxes paid by EQT Production, which often fluctuate, could be increased by the various taxing authorities.  In addition, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect our business, such as the imposition of a new severance tax (a tax on the extraction of natural resources) in states in which we produce gas, could change. Any such increase or change could adversely impact our cash flows and profitability.
 
In July 2010, federal legislation was enacted to implement various financial and governance reforms. Although many of the legislative provisions were focused on the financial and banking industries, portions of the legislation will impact our businesses. The extent of the impact is uncertain at this time, due to the requirement that various implementing regulations must be adopted by the SEC and the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 
Our failure to develop or obtain, and maintain, the necessary infrastructure to successfully deliver gas to market may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations.
 
Our delivery of gas depends upon the availability of adequate transportation infrastructure.  The Company’s investment in midstream infrastructure is intended to address a lack of capacity on, and access to, existing gathering and transportation pipelines as well as processing adjacent to and curtailments on such pipelines.  The lack of midstream infrastructure could become more important in the geographic area in which the Marcellus Shale is being developed.  Our infrastructure development and maintenance programs can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, cost overruns and operational efficiency, and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, materials and qualified contractors and work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology, compliance by th
ird parties with their contractual obligations to us and other factors.  We also deliver to and are served by third-party gas gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities which are limited in number and geographically concentrated.  An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities could result in adverse consequences to us.  In addition, some of our third-party contracts may involve significant financial commitments on our part and may make us dependent upon others to get our produced natural gas to market.
 
The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our strategic, operational and financial plans.
 
Our operations are dependent upon key management and technical personnel, and one or more of these individuals could leave our employment. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. In addition, the success of our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, develop and retain experienced personnel. There is competition within our industry for experienced personnel and certain other professionals. If we cannot attract, develop and retain our technical and professional personnel or attract additional experienced technical and professional personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed.
 
See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for further discussion regarding the Company’s exposure to market risks, including the risks associated with our use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices.
 
 
19







Table of Contents
 
Item 1B