Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

 

Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such
statement is made and the Company undertakes no obligation to correct or update
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise.

 

General

 

In this Form 10-K, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Equitable,” “Equitable
Resources” and “the Company” refer collectively to Equitable Resources, Inc.
and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified.

 

Equitable Resources, Inc. is an integrated energy company, with an
emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas supply activities including production
and gathering and natural gas distribution and transmission. The Company and
its subsidiaries offer energy (natural gas, and a limited amount of natural gas
liquids and crude oil) products and services to wholesale and retail customers
through two business segments: Equitable Utilities and Equitable Supply. In December 2005,
the Company discontinued and sold the operations of its NORESCO segment, which
provides energy efficiency solutions to customers including governmental,
military, institutional, commercial and industrial end-users.

 

The Company was formed under the laws of Pennsylvania by the
consolidation and merger in 1925 of two constituent companies, the older of
which was organized in 1888. In 1984, the corporate name was changed to
Equitable Resources, Inc.

 

The Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 1,250 employees at
the end of 2005, of which 364 employees were subject to collective bargaining
agreements. Although one union representing 13 employees has been operating
without a contract since April 19, 2004, the Company believes that its
employee relations are generally good.

 

The Company makes certain filings with the SEC, including its annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports, available
free of charge through its website, http://www.eqt.com, as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The filings are also available
through the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, these filings are
available on the internet at http://www.sec.gov. The Company’s annual reports
to shareholders, press releases and recent analyst presentations are also
available on the Company’s website.

 

6












 

Business Segments

 

Equitable
Utilities

 

Equitable Utilities’ operations comprise the gathering, transportation,
storage, distribution and sale of natural gas. Equitable Utilities has both
regulated and nonregulated operations. The regulated group consists of the Company’s
federally-regulated pipeline and storage operations and the state-regulated distribution
operations, while the nonregulated group is involved in the non-jurisdictional
marketing of natural gas, risk management activities for the Company and the
sale of energy-related products and services. Equitable Utilities generated
approximately 34% of the Company’s net operating revenues in 2005.

 

Distribution Operations

 

Equitable Utilities’ Distribution Operations are carried out by Equitable
Gas Company (Equitable Gas), a division of the Company. The service territory
includes southwestern Pennsylvania, municipalities in northern West Virginia
and field line sales, also referred to as farm tap service, in eastern Kentucky
and West Virginia. The Distribution Operations provide natural gas services to
approximately 274,400 customers, comprising 255,600 residential customers and 18,800
commercial and industrial customers. Equitable Gas purchases gas through supply
contracts from various sources including major and independent producers in the
Gulf Coast, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers (including
an affiliate). Equitable Gas’ supply purchases include various pricing
mechanisms, ranging from fixed prices to several different index-related
prices.

 

Equitable Utilities’ distribution rates, terms of service, contracts
with affiliates and issuance of securities are subject to comprehensive
regulation by the PA PUC and the Public Service Commission of West Virginia. The
field line sales rates in Kentucky are also subject to rate regulation by the
Kentucky Public Service Commission. Equitable Gas also operates a small
gathering system in Pennsylvania, which is not subject to comprehensive
regulation.

 

In most cases, the Company must seek approval of one or more of these
regulatory bodies prior to increasing (or decreasing) its rates. Currently,
Equitable Gas passes through to its regulated customers the cost of its
purchased gas and is allowed to recover a return in addition to its costs of
operations. However, the Company’s regulators do not guarantee recovery and may require
that certain costs of operation be recovered over an extended term. Equitable
Gas has worked with, and continues to work with regulators to implement
alternative performance-based rates. Equitable Gas’ tariffs for industrial and
commercial customers allow for negotiated rates in appropriate circumstances. Equitable
Gas has not filed a rate case since 1997, and its predominant approach to
maximizing profits is cost control. Regulators periodically audit the Company’s
compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. The Company is not aware of
any significant non-compliance as a result of any completed audits.

 

Because most of its customers use natural gas for heating purposes,
Equitable Gas’ revenues are seasonal, with approximately 72% of calendar year
2005 revenues occurring during the winter heating season (the months of January,
February, March, November and December). Significant quantities of
purchased natural gas are placed in underground storage inventory during
off-peak season to accommodate higher demand during the winter heating season.

 

The Distribution Operations’ service territory is a relatively small
geographic area, with a high percentage of gas users within a static population
and economy. Management believes there are limited continuing growth
opportunities in the service area, where competition exists with two other major
local distribution companies.

 

Pipeline (Transportation and
Storage) Operations

 

Equitable Utilities’ interstate pipeline operations are carried out by
Equitrans, L.P. (Equitrans). These operations offer gas gathering, transportation,
storage and related services to affiliates and third parties in the northeastern
United States including, but not limited to, Dominion Resources, Inc., Keyspan
Corporation, NiSource, Inc., PECO Energy Company and Amerada Hess
Corporation. In 2005, approximately 76% of transportation volumes and
approximately 80% of transportation revenues were from affiliates.

 

7












 

Equitrans’ rates are subject to regulation by the FERC. Throughout 2004
and 2005, Equitrans has filed multiple rate case applications with the FERC
which have been consolidated and seek to resolve several issues including
establishing an appropriate return on the Company’s capital investments, the Company’s
pension funding levels and accruing for post-retirement benefits other than
pensions. A comprehensive and unopposed settlement to the consolidated rate
case was submitted to the FERC on December 9, 2005. The settlement, if
approved by the FERC, will allow the Company to fully recover its cost of
providing service, including the recovery of fuel and lost and unaccounted-for
gas, provide for the replenishment of migrated storage base gas, increase
service flexibility and improve the Company’s ability to recover costs
associated with maintaining pipeline integrity. Equitrans began charging the
proposed rates, subject to refund, during the second half of 2004, consistent
with orders issued by the FERC. Accordingly, Equitrans has established a
reserve, which will be adjusted upon ultimate resolution of the consolidated
rate case. The Company is awaiting a FERC order with respect to the settlement.
While the Company expects that approval of the settlement agreement as filed
will enable the Company to realize benefits in the future, the immediate impact
on pipeline operating income is not expected to be significant.

 

While all of Equitrans’ firm transportation contracts are currently set
to expire in either 2006 or 2007, the Company anticipates that the majority of
the related volumes will be fully subscribed, and therefore, any resulting decrease
in operating income is not expected to be significant.

 

Energy Marketing

 

Equitable Utilities’ unregulated marketing operations include the
non-jurisdictional marketing of natural gas at Equitable Gas, marketing and
risk management activities at Equitable Energy, LLC (Equitable Energy), and the
sale of energy-related products and services by Equitable Homeworks, LLC. Services
and products offered by the marketing operations include commodity procurement,
delivery and storage, risk management and customer services for energy
consumers including large industrial, utility, commercial and institutional
end-users. Equitable Energy also engages in trading and risk management
activities for the Company. The objective of these activities is to limit the
Company’s exposure to shifts in market prices and to optimize the use of the
Company’s assets.

 

The marketing operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, the FERC and the PA PUC.

 

Equitable
Supply

 

Equitable Supply’s production business develops, produces and sells
natural gas and, to a limited extent, crude oil and natural gas liquids, in the
Appalachian region of the United States. Its gathering business consists of
gathering the Company’s and third party gas and the processing of natural gas
liquids. Equitable Supply generated approximately 66% of the Company’s net
operating revenues in 2005.

 

Production

 

Equitable Supply’s production business, operating through Equitable
Production Company and several smaller affiliates (collectively referred to as “Equitable
Production”), is among the largest owners of proved natural gas reserves in the
Appalachian Basin. Equitable Production currently operates approximately 12,000
producing wells in the Appalachian Basin.

 

The Company’s reserves are located entirely in the Appalachian Basin. The
Appalachian Basin is characterized by wells with comparatively low rates of
annual decline in production (wells generally produce for periods longer than
50 years), low production costs per well and high energy content. Once drilled
and completed, wells in the Appalachian Basin typically have low ongoing
operating and maintenance requirements. Many of the Company’s wells have been
producing for decades, and in some cases since the early 1900’s. Management
believes that virtually all of the Company’s wells are low risk development
wells in part because they are drilled in areas known to be relatively
productive and to relatively shallow depths ranging from 1,000 to 7,000 feet
below the surface. Many of these wells are completed in more than one producing
formation, including coal formations in certain areas, and production from
these formations may be commingled.

 

8












 

In 2005, Equitable Production drilled 455 gross wells (345 net wells)
at a success rate of nearly 100%. Drilling was concentrated within Equitable’s
core areas of southwestern Virginia, southeastern Kentucky and southern West
Virginia. This activity resulted in an average of 17.2 MMcf per day of gas
sales and proved developed reserve additions of approximately 100 Bcfe. The 100
Bcfe of proved developed reserve additions include approximately 30 Bcfe of
proved developed extensions, discoveries and other additions that were not
previously classified as undeveloped. The remaining 70 Bcfe of proved developed
reserve additions relate to proved undeveloped reserves that were transferred
to proved developed reserves.

 

Equitable Supply does not actively engage in activities to
differentiate its products and therefore receives market-based pricing. The
market price for gas located in the Appalachian Basin is generally higher than
the price for gas located in the Gulf Coast, however, because of the relative
differences in the supply of and demand for natural gas in those areas and in the
relative cost to transport to customers in the northeastern United States. As a
consequence, Equitable Production’s location provides a price advantage over
companies located in the Gulf Coast region of the country.

 

The Company has noticed some relative value erosion of Mid-Atlantic
basis as a result of new base load gas supplies. If the rate of supply growth
in Appalachia exceeds the Mid-Atlantic region’s growth in demand, there may be
further weakening in basis, especially in the summer months. At this time, this
erosion has not had a significant impact on the Company’s results.

 

The combination of long-lived production, low drilling costs, high drilling
completion rates at shallow depths and proximity to natural gas markets has
resulted in a highly fragmented operating environment in the Appalachian Basin.
Natural gas drilling activity has increased as suppliers in the Appalachian
Basin attempt to take advantage of higher than normal natural gas prices. While
increased activity can place constraints on capacity of labor, equipment,
pipeline availability and other resources in the Appalachian Basin, it also
provides opportunities for expansion of natural gas gathering activities and
potential for higher quality rigs and labor providers in the future.

 

Equitable Supply hedges a portion of its forecasted natural gas
production and third party purchases and sales at specified prices for a
specified period of time. The Company’s hedging strategy and information
regarding its derivative instruments are outlined in Item 7A, “Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and in Notes 1 and 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

Gathering

 

Equitable Gathering derives its revenues from charges it assesses to
customers on a gathering and production pipeline system in the Appalachian
Basin. As of December 31, 2005, the system included approximately 8,500 miles
of pipeline located throughout West Virginia, eastern Kentucky, southwestern
Virginia and portions of Pennsylvania. Over 80% of the volumes through the
pipeline system interconnect with three major interstate pipelines: Columbia
Gas Transmission, East Tennessee Natural Gas Company and Dominion Transmission.
The gathering system also maintains interconnects with Equitrans, the Company’s
interstate transmission affiliate that affords access to natural gas markets in
southwestern Pennsylvania and the northeastern United States. Maintaining these
interconnects provides the Company with access to multiple markets and the
flexibility to redirect deliveries when flow interruptions occur.

 

Gathered sales volumes for 2005 totaled 121.0 Bcf, of which
approximately 57% related to the gathering of Equitable Production’s sales
volumes, 34% related to third party volumes, and the remainder related to
volumes in which interests were sold by the Company but which the Company continued
to operate for a fee. Approximately 80% of the Company’s 2005 gathering revenues
were from affiliates. Effective January 1, 2005, the Company reorganized
its businesses in order to better identify the operating and capital costs
associated with the gathering business. The information derived from this
reorganization and upward pressure on operating costs resulting from the
expansion of activity in the Appalachian Basin have led Equitable Gathering to
determine that it is, in many cases, currently charging gathering rates which
are below its cost of service. Equitable Gathering will pursue full recovery of
its costs of providing services by increasing the rates charged to its
customers.

 

Certain portions of the gathering system are subject to rate regulation
by the FERC and the Company has sought to have rates established for those
gathering systems as part of the consolidated rate case described under

 

9












 

“Equitable
Utilities – Pipeline (Transportation and Storage) Operations.”  The consolidated rate case includes the
operations of gathering facilities that were recorded in Equitable Supply’s
gathering operations during 2005, 2004 and 2003. Effective January 1,
2006, these gathering systems, which consist of 1,400 miles of pipeline and
related facilities with approximately 13.3 Bcf of annual throughput, were
transferred to Equitable Utilities for segment reporting purposes. The effect
of the transfer is not material to the results of operations or financial
position of the Equitable Utilities or Equitable Supply segments; segment results
have not been restated for this transfer.

 

Competition in natural gas gathering is based mainly on gathering
system capacity, price and location. Key competitors in Equitable Supply’s
gathering operations include independent gas gatherers and integrated Appalachian
energy companies. See “Outlook” under Equitable Supply’s section of Item
7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” for discussion of the Company’s strategy in regards to its
midstream gathering operations.

 

Discontinued
Operations

 

In December 2005, the Company sold the domestic operations of its
NORESCO business segment for $82 million before customary purchase price adjustments of $2
million, which resulted in the Company receiving $80 million of proceeds in December 2005
for this sale. The sales price is also subject to future customary purchase
price adjustments per the terms of the agreement. Also in December 2005,
the Company entered into a purchase and sale agreement, subject to closing conditions,
to sell the remaining interest in its investment in IGC/ERI Pan-Am Thermal
Generating Limited for $2.5 million. This sale is expected to close in 2006 and
as such, the Company considers the investment to be held for sale. As a result
of these transactions, the Company has reclassified its financial statements
for all periods presented to reflect the operating results of the NORESCO
segment as discontinued operations.

 

Composition
of Segment Operating Revenues

 

Presented below are operating revenues as a percentage of total
operating revenues for each class of products and services representing
greater than 10% of total operating revenues during the years 2003 through 2005.

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Equitable
  Utilities:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential
  natural gas sales
  
  
   
  
  
  26
  
  
  %
  
  
  29
  
  
  %
  
  
  32
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Marketed
  natural gas
  
  
   
  
  
  27
  
  
  %
  
  
  23
  
  
  %
  
  
  18
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Equitable
  Supply:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Produced
  natural gas equivalents
  
  
   
  
  
  30
  
  
  %
  
  
  29
  
  
  %
  
  
  28
  
  
  %
  
 


 

Financial Information About Segments

 

See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for financial information by business segment.

 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

 

Substantially all of the Company’s assets and operations are located in
the continental United States.

 

Environmental

 

See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information
regarding environmental matters.

 

10












 

Item
1A. Risk Factors

 

Risks
Relating to Our Business

 

In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K,
the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Please
note that additional risks not presently known to the Company or that are
currently considered immaterial may also have a negative impact on the
Company’s business and operations.

 

Natural gas price
volatility may have an adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and
liquidity.

 

Our revenue,
profitability and liquidity depend on the price and demand for natural gas. The
markets for natural gas are volatile and fluctuations in prices will affect our
financial results. Recently, natural gas prices have increased substantially. Such
price increases have subjected us, and may continue to subject us to,
margin calls which require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral
with our hedge counterparties. The cash collateral, which is interest-bearing,
provided to our hedge counterparties is returned to us in whole or in part upon
a reduction in forward market prices, depending on the amount of such
reduction, or in whole upon settlement of the related hedged transaction. Increases
in natural gas prices may also be accompanied by or result in increased
well drilling costs, increased deferral of purchased gas costs for our distribution
operations, increased production taxes, increased lease operating expenses,
increased exposure to credit losses resulting from potential increases in
uncollectible accounts receivable from our distribution customers and increased
customer conservation or conversion to alternative fuels. Lower natural gas
prices, increases in our estimates of development costs or changes to our
production assumptions may result in our having to make downward
adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and incur non-cash charges to
earnings. Natural gas prices are affected by a number of factors beyond our
control, which include: weather conditions; the supply of and demand for
natural gas; national and worldwide economic and political conditions; the
price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability
of capacity on, transportation facilities; and government regulations, such as
regulation of natural gas transportation, royalties and price controls.

 

We are dependent on
our ability to cost-effectively access capital markets. Our inability to obtain
capital on acceptable terms may adversely affect our business. A reduction
in our debt issuer credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs.

 

We rely on access to both short-term debt markets and longer-term
capital markets as a source of liquidity and to satisfy our capital
requirements in excess of cash flow from our operations. Each of the agencies who
periodically assign credit ratings on our debt has stated that our rating is
based on their expectations with respect to certain financial performance
measures and ratios. A rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at
any time by the assigning credit rating agency. Any inability to maintain our
current credit ratings could affect, especially during times of uncertainty in
the capital markets, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms which, in
turn, could impact our ability to manage our business. Any downgrades in these
ratings could have a negative impact on our liquidity, our access to capital
markets and our costs of financing and could increase the amount of collateral
required by our hedge counterparties. Capital market disruptions could also
adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets.

 

Our need to comply
with comprehensive, complex and sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase
our costs and limit our revenue growth, which may result in reduced
earnings.

 

Significant portions of our gathering, transportation, storage and
distribution businesses are subject to state and federal regulation including
regulation of the rates which we may assess our customers. The agencies
that regulate our rates may prohibit us from realizing a level of return
which we believe is appropriate. These restrictions may take the form of
imputed revenue credits, cost disallowances (including purchased gas cost
recoveries) and/or expense deferrals. Additionally, we may be required to
provide additional assistance to low income residential customers to help pay their
bills.

 

We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements
enacted or adopted by federal, state and local, as well as foreign authorities
relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters,
including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into
the air and water, the management and disposal of

 

11












 

hazardous
substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality
and availability, plant and wildlife protection, restoration of drilling
properties after drilling is completed, pipeline safety and work practices
related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements could
have a significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position.

 

The rates of federal, state and local taxes applicable to the
industries in which we operate, including production taxes paid by Equitable
Supply, which often fluctuate, could be increased by the respective taxing authorities.
In addition, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect our business
could change. Any such increase or change could adversely impact our cash flows
and profitability.

 

The actual quantities
and present value of our proved gas reserves may prove to be lower than we
have estimated, which could negatively impact our long-term growth prospects.

 

The proved gas reserve information included in this Form 10-K
represents only estimates calculated using gas prices in effect on the date
indicated in the reports. Any significant price changes will have a material
effect on the present value of our reserves. For example, an increase in gas
prices of approximately $0.50 per Mcfe from those prices used to calculate our
reserves would increase the present value of our proved reserves by
approximately $322 million, and the same decrease in gas prices would
decrease the present value of our proved reserves by the same amount.

 

Estimating underground accumulations of gas involves significant
decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological,
geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Future economic
and operating conditions are uncertain which could cause a revision to our
future reserve estimates. Estimates of economically recoverable gas reserves
and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and
assumptions, including historical production from the area compared with
production from other comparable producing areas and the assumed effects of
regulations by governmental agencies. Some of these assumptions, including the
10% discount factor used to calculate discounted future net reserves in this Form 10-K,
are required by the SEC.

 

Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of
the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating
reserves: the quantities of gas that are ultimately recovered, the timing of
the recovery of gas reserves, the production and operating costs incurred, the
amount and timing of future development expenditures and the gas price
received.

 

The amount and timing
of actual future gas production and the cost and timing of our infrastructure
development program are difficult to predict and may vary significantly
from our estimates which may reduce our earnings.

 

Our future success depends on our ability to develop additional gas
reserves that are economically recoverable and to transport the production from
those reserves to market, and our failure to do so may reduce our earnings.
In 2005, we expanded our drilling program, and we have subsequently announced
further expansion. We have also announced a significant investment in
transportation infrastructure (the Big Sandy Pipeline) which is intended to
address a lack of capacity on and access to existing transportation pipelines
as well as curtailments on such pipelines. Our drilling of development wells
and our infrastructure development program can involve significant risks,
including those related to timing and cost overruns and these risks can be
affected by the availability of capital, leases, rigs and a qualified work
force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government
approvals, title problems, geology and other factors. In addition, we may not
be able to obtain sufficient third party transportation contracts to recover
the costs of our infrastructure development program. Drilling for natural gas
can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do
not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Without continued
successful development or acquisition activities, our reserves and revenues
will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production.

 

Our operations are
weather sensitive.

 

Weather conditions
directly influence the demand for natural gas, affect the price of energy
commodities and may hinder our gathering, transportation and drilling
operations. For example, mild winter temperatures can cause a

 

12












 

decrease in the volume or
affect the price of gas we sell in any year and colder winter temperatures can
cause an increase in the amount or in the price of gas we sell in any year. In
addition, severe weather, including hurricanes, can be destructive, causing
natural gas prices to be volatile, our drilling operations to be curtailed,
delayed or canceled, our gathering and transportation assets to be damaged and
our operating expenses to increase.

 

We are subject to
operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance.

 

Our business’
operations are subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally
incidental to the production, transportation, storage and distribution of
natural gas. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal
injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and
equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. As a result, we are
sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the
ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that insurance policies
we maintain to limit our liability of such losses will be adequate to protect
us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal
and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the
future at economical prices.

 

We may engage in
acquisition and disposition strategies that involve a number of inherent risks,
any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits and may adversely
affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations.

 

We intend to
continue to strategically position our business in order to improve our ability
to compete. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combinations
involve various inherent risks, such as assessing the value, strengths,
weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of
acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key
personnel of an acquired business; our ability to achieve identified financial
and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other
transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions
affecting an acquisition or other transaction. We may be unable to
realize, or do so within any particular time frame, the cost reductions, cash
flow increases or other synergies expected to result from such transactions. In
addition, various factors including prevailing market conditions and the
incursion of related contingent liabilities could negatively impact the
benefits we receive from disposition transactions.

 

If we fail to achieve our strategic or financial goals in any
acquisition or disposition transaction, it could have a significant adverse
affect on our earnings, cash flows and results of operations. Furthermore, if
we borrow money to finance an acquisition, our failure to achieve our stated
goals could impact our ability to repay such borrowings or other borrowings and
could weaken our financial condition.

 

See Item 7A, “Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for further discussion
regarding the Company’s exposure to market risks, including the risks
associated with our use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices.

 

Item 1B