Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

 

            Any
forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is
made and the Company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

 

PART I

 

Item 1.        Business

 

        General

 

            In
this Form 10-K, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Equitable,” “Equitable
Resources” and “the Company” refer collectively to Equitable Resources, Inc.
and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified.

 

            Equitable
Resources, Inc. is an integrated energy company, with an emphasis on
Appalachian area natural gas activities, including production, gathering and
processing, and distribution, transmission, storage and marketing.  The Company and its subsidiaries offer energy
(natural gas, and a limited amount of natural gas liquids and crude oil)
products and services to wholesale and retail customers.

 

            The
results of operations of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007
are reported in this Form 10-K through two business segments: Equitable Supply
and Equitable Utilities.  These reporting
segments reflect the Company’s lines of business and are reported in the same
manner the Company evaluated its operating performance through December 31,
2007.

 

            The
Company was formed under the laws of Pennsylvania by the consolidation and
merger in 1925 of two companies, the older of which was organized in 1888.  In 1984, the corporate name was changed to
Equitable Resources, Inc.

 

            The Company and its subsidiaries had approximately
1,400 employees at the end of 2007, of which 292 employees were subject to
collective bargaining agreements.  In January 2007,
the Company and one union reached agreement on a three-year renewal contract
for various clerical employees represented by the union.  The labor agreement with the United
Steelworkers (USW), Local 12050 will expire on September 25, 2008 and the
labor agreement with USW, Local 8-512 will expire on October 15,
2008.  In October 2007, one
USW bargaining unit, which had been operating without a contract
since April 19, 2004, voted to decertify the USW as its collective
bargaining representative.  As a result, these employees are no longer
represented by a union.  The Company believes that its employee relations
are generally good.

 

 

6












 

            The
Company makes certain filings with the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all
amendments and exhibits to those reports, available free of charge through its
website, http://www.eqt.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 
The filings are also available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.  Also, these filings are available on the
internet at http://www.sec.gov.  The
Company’s annual reports to shareholders, press releases and recent analyst
presentations are also available on the Company’s website.

 

        Business  Segments

 

Equitable Supply

 

Equitable Supply’s
production business develops, produces and sells natural gas and, to a limited
extent, crude oil and natural gas liquids, in the Appalachian region of the
United States. Its
gathering business consists of the gathering of gas produced
by the Company and third parties and the processing of natural gas
liquids.  Equitable Supply generated
approximately 64% of the Company’s net operating revenues in 2007.

 

Production

 

Equitable Supply’s
production business, operating through Equitable Production Company and several
other affiliates (collectively referred to as “Equitable Production”), is one
of the largest owners of proved natural gas reserves in the Appalachian
Basin.  Equitable Production’s key
operating assets include:

 

·                  1,016,960 gross
(954,010 net) productive acres

 

·                  2,286,759 gross (2,145,175 net) undeveloped
acres

 

·                  total proved reserves at December 31,
2007 of 2,682 Bcfe; 65% of which were proved developed

 

·                  12,889 gross (9,309 net) producing wells

 

            The
Company’s proved reserves had discounted future net cash flows before income
taxes of $3,989 million ($2,473 million after tax) at December 31,
2007.  This standardized measure of discounted future net
cash flows is calculated using adjusted year-end prices in accordance with SFAS
No. 69. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information.  These reserves are located
entirely in the Appalachian Basin, which is characterized by wells with
comparatively low rates of annual decline in production, long lives, low
production costs and natural gas containing high energy content.  Many of the Company’s wells have been
producing for decades, in some cases since the early 1900’s.  Management believes that virtually all of the
Company’s wells are low risk development wells because they are drilled in
areas and into reservoirs which are known to be productive.

 

            The Company is focused on continuing its
significant organic reserve and production growth through its drilling program
and believes that this plan will increase its proved reserves based on the
quality of the underlying asset base.  From 2005
through 2007, Equitable has drilled 997 wells on locations not classified as
proved in the reserves report, with less than 3 dry holes drilled.  The Company has announced a significant capital commitment plan to
support its reserve growth.  Capital
spending for well development (primarily drilling) is expected to increase to
$619 million in 2008 from $298 million in 2007. 
A substantial portion of the Company’s 2008 drilling efforts will be
focused on drilling horizontal wells in shale formations in Kentucky and West
Virginia.  The Company is targeting
completion of between 250 and 300 horizontal wells in 2008 and expects an
average cost per horizontal well of approximately $1.2 million, below its
estimates when it began the horizontal drilling program in the latter part of
2006.  The Company expects average
recovery results in the range of 0.75 Bcfe to 1.50 Bcfe per horizontal well.

 

The Company drilled 634
gross wells (456 net) in 2007 consisting of 88 horizontal shale wells, 266 coal
bed methane wells and 280 other vertical wells. 
Included in this total are 36 infill wells.  Drilling was concentrated within Equitable’s
core areas of southwestern Virginia, southeastern Kentucky and southern West
Virginia.

 

 

7












 

The Company’s drilling activity
resulted in proved developed reserve additions of approximately 165 Bcfe in
2007.  Of the proved developed reserve
additions, approximately 43 Bcfe related to proved undeveloped reserves that
were transferred to proved developed reserves. 
The company’s 2007 extensions, discoveries and other additions of 321.0
Bcfe exceeded the 2007 production of 83.1 Bcfe (a drill bit reserves replacement
ratio of 386%).

 

            Equitable
Supply’s production for 2007 increased to 83.1 Bcfe, yielding an average proved reserves-to-production
ratio (average reserve life) of approximately 32.3 years at year-end 2007 when compared
to the Company’s year-end proved reserves of 2,682 Bcfe.  Equitable
Supply’s fourth quarter 2007 average daily sales were 210 MMcfe per day.  Daily sales volumes are expected to reach 235 MMcfe by
year-end 2008 with total production sales volumes expected to reach 80-81 Bcfe
for the year.

 

            See
Note 24 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for information on
reserves, reserve activity, costs and the standard measure of discounted future
cash flows.

 

            The
natural gas produced by Equitable Supply is a commodity and therefore the Company
receives market-based pricing.  The
market price for gas located in the Appalachian Basin is generally higher than
the price for gas located in the Gulf Coast, largely due to the differential in
the cost to transport gas to customers in the northeastern United States.  The recent increase in production in the
Appalachian Basin by the Company and other producers is putting pressure on the
capacity of existing gathering and midstream processing and transport systems.  As a result, the Company has entered into
certain discounted sales arrangements to obtain transportation capacity, so
that its gas continues to flow.

 

The combination of
long-lived production, low drilling costs, high drilling completion rates and
proximity to natural gas markets has resulted in a highly fragmented operating
environment in the Appalachian Basin. 
Natural gas drilling activity has increased as suppliers in the
Appalachian Basin attempt to take advantage of natural gas prices which continue
to be higher than historical levels. 
While increased activity can place constraints on availability of labor,
equipment, pipeline transport and other resources in the Appalachian Basin, it
also provides opportunities for expansion of natural gas gathering activities
and potential to attract higher quality rigs and labor providers in the future.

 

Equitable Supply hedges a
portion of its forecasted natural gas production.  It also hedges third party purchases and
sales.  The Company’s hedging strategy
and information regarding its derivative instruments is outlined in Item 7A, “Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and in Notes 1 and 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

Gathering

 

Equitable Gathering
operating through several subsidiaries of the Company derives its revenues from
charges to customers for use of its gathering system in the Appalachian
Basin.  As of December 31, 2007, the
system included approximately 7,500 miles of gathering lines located throughout
West Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southwestern Virginia.  Over 90% of the gathering system volumes are
transported to interconnects with three major interstate pipelines: Columbia
Gas Transmission, East Tennessee Natural Gas Company and Dominion Transmission.  The gathering system also maintains interconnects
with Equitrans, L.P. (Equitrans), the Company’s interstate pipeline
affiliate.  Maintaining these
interconnects provides the Company with access to geographically diverse
markets.

 

Gathering system sales
volumes for 2007 totaled 94.2 Bcfe, of which approximately 65% related to the
gathering of Equitable Production’s gas volumes, 24% related to third party
volumes, and the remainder related to volumes in which interests were sold by
the Company but which the Company continued to operate for a fee.  Approximately 84% of Equitable Gathering’s
2007 revenues were from affiliates.  As a
result of the gathering asset contribution to Nora Gathering, LLC in 2007
discussed in Note 4 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements,
operations related to the Nora area gathering activities are no longer included
in Equitable Gathering’s operating results. 
Equitable Gathering records its 50% equity interest in the earnings of
Nora Gathering, LLC under the equity method of accounting.

 

 

8












 

Key competitors for new
gathering systems include independent gas gatherers and integrated Appalachian
energy companies.  See “Outlook” under
Equitable Supply’s section of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for discussion of the Company’s
strategy in regard to its midstream gathering operations.

 

Equitable Utilities

 

            Equitable
Utilities’ operations comprise gathering, transportation, storage, distribution
and marketing of natural gas.  Equitable
Utilities has both regulated and nonregulated operations.  The regulated activities consist of the
Company’s state-regulated distribution operations and federally-regulated
pipeline and storage operations.  The
nonregulated activities include the nonregulated pipeline operations,
non-jurisdictional marketing of natural gas, risk management activities for the
Company and the sale of energy-related products and services.  Equitable Utilities generated approximately
36% of the Company’s net operating revenues in 2007.

 

        Distribution
Operations

 

            Equitable
Utilities’ distribution operations are carried out by Equitable Gas Company
(Equitable Gas), a division of the Company. 
The service territory for the distribution operations includes southwestern
Pennsylvania, municipalities in northern West Virginia and field line sales,
also referred to as farm tap service, in eastern Kentucky and West
Virginia.  These areas have a rather
static population and economy.  The
distribution operations provide natural gas services to approximately 275,000
customers, consisting of 256,400 residential customers and 18,600 commercial
and industrial customers.  Equitable Gas
purchases gas through contracts with various sources including major and
independent producers in the Gulf Coast, local producers in the Appalachian
area and gas marketers (including an affiliate).  These contracts contain various pricing
mechanisms, ranging from fixed prices to several different index-related
prices.

 

            Equitable Gas’ distribution rates, terms
of service, and contracts with affiliates are subject to
comprehensive regulation by the PA PUC and the WV PSC and the issuance of
securities is subject to regulation by the PA PUC.  The field line sales rates in Kentucky are
also subject to rate regulation by the Kentucky Public Service Commission.  Equitable Gas also operates a small gathering
system in Pennsylvania, which is not subject to comprehensive regulation.

 

            The
Company must usually seek approval of one or more of its regulators prior to
increasing (or decreasing) its rates. 
Currently, Equitable Gas passes through to its regulated customers the
cost of its purchased gas and transportation activities.  It is allowed to recover a return in addition
to the costs of its transportation activities. 
However, the Company’s regulators do not guarantee recovery and may
require that certain costs of operation be recovered over an extended
term.  Equitable Gas has worked with, and
continues to work with, regulators to implement alternative cost recovery
programs.  Equitable Gas’ tariffs for
commercial and industrial customers allow for negotiated rates in limited
circumstances.  Regulators periodically
audit the Company’s compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.  The Company is not aware of any significant
non-compliance as a result of any completed audits.

 

            Because
most of its customers use natural gas for heating purposes, Equitable Gas’
revenues are seasonal, with approximately 72% of calendar year 2007 revenues
occurring during the winter heating season (the months of January, February,
March, November and December). 
Significant quantities of purchased natural gas are placed in
underground storage inventory during the off-peak season to accommodate higher
demand during the winter heating season.

 

            Pennsylvania law requires
that local distribution companies develop and implement programs to assist low
income customers with paying their gas bills. The costs of these programs are
recovered through rates charged to other residential customers.  Equitable Gas has several such programs,
including the CAP.  In October 2006,
Equitable Gas submitted a request for PA PUC approval to increase funding to
support the increasing costs of its CAP. 
On September 27, 2007, the PA PUC issued an order approving an
increase to Equitable’s surcharge, which is designed to offset the costs of the
CAP.  The revised surcharge went into
effect on October 2, 2007.  See Item
7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
for more information.

 

            On March 1, 2006, the Company entered into a
definitive agreement to acquire Dominion’s natural gas distribution assets in
Pennsylvania and in West Virginia for approximately $970 million, subject to
adjustments, in a 

 

 

9












 

cash transaction for the
stock of Peoples and Hope.  In light of
the continued delay in achieving the final legal approvals for this
transaction, the Company and Dominion agreed to terminate the definitive
agreement pursuant to a mutual termination agreement entered into on January 15,
2008.  See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”
for a description of proceedings initiated by the Federal Trade Commission for
the purpose of challenging the proposed acquisition.

 

        Pipeline (Transportation and Storage) Operations

 

            Equitable
Utilities’ interstate pipeline operations are carried out by Equitrans.  These operations offer gas gathering,
transportation, storage and related services to affiliates and third parties in
the northeastern United States, including but not limited to, Dominion
Resources, Inc., Keyspan Corporation, NiSource, Inc., PECO Energy
Company and UGI Energy Services, Inc. 
In 2007, approximately 66% of transportation volumes and approximately
77% of transportation revenues were from affiliates.  Equitrans’ rates are subject to regulation by
the FERC.

 

            In the second quarter of 2006, the
Company filed a certificate application with the FERC for approval to build a
70-mile, 20-inch diameter pipeline which will connect the Company-operated
Kentucky hydrocarbon processing plant in Langley, Kentucky to the Tennessee Gas
Pipeline in Carter County, Kentucky, and will initially provide up to 130,000
dekatherms per day of firm transportation service. The pipeline, known as the
Big Sandy Pipeline, is owned and will be operated by Equitrans.  On October 16, 2007, the FERC granted Equitrans’
request for an extension of time until March 31, 2008 to complete
construction of the Big Sandy Pipeline.  Capital expenditures incurred by the Company
related to the Big Sandy Pipeline are included in the Equitable Supply business
segment.

 

            On April 5, 2006, the FERC approved a
settlement to Equitrans’ consolidated 2005 and 2004 rate case filings.  The settlement became effective on June 1,
2006.  This settlement allows Equitrans to institute
an annual surcharge for the tracking and recovery of all costs (operations,
maintenance and return on invested capital) incurred on and after September 1,
2005, related to Equitrans’ Pipeline Safety Program under the Pipeline Safety
Improvement Act of 2002.  Filings to
modify the surcharge must be made on or before March 1st of each year for
approval by the FERC.  On March 29,
2007, the Company received approval, subject to refund, to institute the
surcharge, and on April 1, 2007, the Company commenced billing the
surcharge.   On November 26, 2007,
the FERC removed the refund condition and approved the surcharge effective April 1,
2007.  The Company anticipates that
additional filings to modify the surcharge will continue to be made in future
years to recover costs incurred in connection with its Pipeline Safety Program.

 

            Equitrans’ firm
transportation contracts on its mainline system expire between 2009 and 2011
and the firm transportation contracts on its Big Sandy Pipeline expire in
2018.  The Company anticipates that the
capacity associated with these expiring contracts will be remarketed such that
the capacity will remain fully subscribed.

 

        Energy
Marketing

 

            Equitable
Utilities’ unregulated marketing operations include the non-jurisdictional
marketing of natural gas at Equitable Gas, marketing and risk management
activities at Equitable Energy, LLC (Equitable Energy), and the sale of
energy-related products and services by Equitable Homeworks, LLC.  Services and products offered by the
marketing operations include commodity procurement, delivery and storage
services, such as park and loan services, risk management and other services
for energy consumers including large industrial, utility, commercial and
institutional end-users.  Equitable
Energy also engages in energy trading and risk management activities for the
Company.  The objective of these
activities is to limit the Company’s exposure to shifts in market prices and to
optimize the use of the Company’s assets.

 

        Transfer
of Gathering Assets

 

            Effective
January 1, 2006, certain gathering assets, consisting of 1,400 miles of
gathering line and related facilities with approximately 13.3 Bcf of annual
throughput, were transferred from Equitable Supply to Equitable Utilities for
segment reporting purposes.  The effect
of the transfer is not material to the results of operations or financial
position of the Equitable Utilities or Equitable Supply segments; segment
results have not been restated for this transfer.

 

10












 

Change in Segments

 

            In January 2008, the Company
announced a change in organizational structure and several changes to executive
management to better align the Company to execute its growth strategy for
development and infrastructure expansion in the Appalachian Basin.  These changes resulted in changes to the
Company’s reporting segments effective for fiscal year 2008.  The Company’s 2008 results will be reported
through three business segments: Equitable Production, Equitable Midstream and
Equitable Distribution.  Historical
results will also be restated beginning in 2008 to reflect this new
structure.  Under the new reporting
structure, the Equitable Production segment will include the Company’s
exploration for, and development and production of, natural gas and a limited
amount of crude oil in the Appalachian Basin. 
Equitable Midstream’s operations will include the natural gas gathering,
processing, transportation, storage and marketing activities of the Company as
well as sales of a limited amount of natural gas liquids.  Equitable Distribution’s operations will be
comprised primarily of the state-regulated distribution activities of the
Company.

 

Discontinued Operations

 

            In the fourth
quarter of 2005, the Company sold its NORESCO domestic business for $82 million
before customary purchase price adjustments. 
In the second quarter of 2006, the Company completed the sale of the
remaining interest in its investment in IGC/ERI Pan-Am Thermal Generating
Limited (Pan Am), previously included in the NORESCO business segment, for
total proceeds of $2.6 million.  As a
result of these transactions, the Company has reclassified its financial
statements for all periods presented to reflect the operating results of the
NORESCO segment as discontinued operations.

 

Composition of Segment Operating
Revenues

 

Presented below are
operating revenues as a percentage of total operating revenues for each class
of products and services representing greater than 10% of total operating
revenues during the years 2007, 2006 and 2005.

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Equitable Supply:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Natural gas equivalents sales
  
  
   
  
  
  28
  
  
  %
  
  
  29
  
  
  %
  
  
  30
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Equitable Utilities:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Marketed natural gas sales
  
  
   
  
  
  26
  
  
  %
  
  
  20
  
  
  %
  
  
  27
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Residential natural gas sales
  
  
   
  
  
  23
  
  
  %
  
  
  24
  
  
  %
  
  
  26
  
  
  %
  
 


 

Financial
Information About Segments

 

See Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information by business segment
including, but not limited to, revenues from external customers, operating
income, and total assets.

 

Financial
Information About Geographic Areas

 

Substantially
all of the Company’s assets and operations are located in the continental
United States.

 

Environmental

 

See Note 20 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding environmental
matters.

 

11












 

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

Risks Relating to Our Business

 

            In
addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the
following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and
future prospects.  Please note that
additional risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered
immaterial may also have a negative impact on our business and operations.  If any of the events or circumstances described
below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of
operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could
decline.

 

            Natural
gas price volatility may have an adverse effect on our revenue, profitability
and liquidity.

 

            Our revenue, profitability and liquidity depend on the
price for natural gas.  The markets for
natural gas are volatile and fluctuations in prices will affect our financial
results.  Natural gas prices are affected
by a number of factors beyond our control, which include: weather conditions;
the supply of and demand for natural gas; national and worldwide economic and
political conditions; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the
proximity to, and availability of capacity on, transportation facilities; and
government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation,
royalties and price controls.

 

            Increases in natural gas prices may be accompanied
by or result in increased well drilling costs, increased deferral of purchased
gas costs for our distribution operations, increased production taxes,
increased lease operating expenses, increased exposure to credit losses
resulting from potential increases in uncollectible accounts receivable from
our distribution customers, increased volatility in seasonal gas price spreads
for our storage assets, and increased customer conservation or conversion to
alternative fuels.  Significant price
increases subject us to margin calls on our commodity price derivative
contracts (hedging arrangements, including futures contracts, swap agreements
and exchange traded instruments) which would potentially require us to post
significant amounts of cash collateral with our hedge counterparties.  The cash collateral, which is
interest-bearing, provided to our hedge counterparties is returned to us in
whole or in part upon a reduction in forward market prices, depending on
the amount of such reduction, or in whole upon settlement of the related hedged
transaction.  In such cases we are,
however, exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties of
their obligations under the derivative contracts.  In addition, to the extent we have hedged our
current production at prices below the current market price, we are unable to
benefit fully from the increase in the price of natural gas.

 

 Lower natural
gas prices may result in downward adjustments to the value of our
estimated proved reserves and cause us to incur non-cash charges to
earnings.  In addition, our reserves may
be impacted by increases in our estimates of development costs or changes to
our production assumptions which may change our production plans or
may result in downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and
cause us to incur non-cash charges to earnings.

 

            Our
failure to assess production opportunities based on market conditions could
negatively impact our long-term growth prospects for our production business.

 

            Our goal of sustaining long-term growth
for our production business is contingent upon our ability to identify
production opportunities based on market conditions.  Successfully identifying production
opportunities involves a high degree of business experience, knowledge and
careful evaluation of potential opportunities, along with subjective judgments
and assumptions which may prove to be incorrect.

 

            The amount
and timing of actual future gas production is difficult to predict and may vary
significantly from our estimates which may reduce our earnings.

 

            Our
future success depends on our ability to develop additional gas reserves that
are economically recoverable and to maximize existing well production, and our
failure to do so may reduce our earnings. 
We have expanded our drilling program in recent years and have announced plans to drill up to
750 wells in 2008, including a target of 250 to 300 horizontal wells.  Our drilling of development wells can involve
significant risks, including those related to timing and cost overruns and
these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, leases, rigs and 

 

12












 

a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price
volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology and other
factors.  Drilling for natural gas can be
unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not
produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. 
Additionally, a failure to effectively operate existing wells may cause
production volumes to fall short of our projections.  Without continued successful development or
acquisition activities, together with effective operation of existing wells,
our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves
being depleted by production.

 

            Our failure to develop and maintain
the necessary infrastructure to successfully deliver gas to market may
adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations.

 

            Our gas delivery depends on the
availability of adequate transportation infrastructure.  As we previously announced, $568 million of
our 2008 capital commitment budget is planned for investment in midstream
infrastructure, which we expect will include significant new investment in
transportation infrastructure as well as our continuing investment in the Big
Sandy Pipeline and the Langley hydrocarbon processing plant.  Investment in midstream infrastructure is intended to address a lack
of capacity on, and access to, existing gathering and transportation pipelines
as well as processing adjacent to and curtailments on such pipelines.  Our infrastructure development program can
involve significant risks, including those related to timing and cost overruns,
and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, materials, and
qualified contractors and  work force, as
well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title
problems, geology, compliance by third parties with their contractual
obligations to us and other factors.  We
also deliver to and are served by third party gas gathering, transportation,
processing and storage facilities which are limited in number and
geographically concentrated.  An extended
interruption of access to or service from these facilities could result in
material adverse consequences to us.

 

            Volatility in the capital markets or
downgrades to our credit ratings could increase our costs of borrowing
adversely affecting our business, results of operations and liquidity.

 

We rely on access to both
short-term bank and money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source
of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from
operations.  Market disruptions or any downgrade of our credit rating may
increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to raise capital
through the issuance of debt or equity securities or other borrowing
arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and liquidity.  These disruptions could include an
economic downturn, changes in capital market conditions generally and deterioration
in the overall health of our industry.

 

We cannot be sure that
our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that
our rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency.
 An increase in the level of our indebtedness in the future may result in
a downgrade in the ratings that are assigned to our debt.  Any downgrade
in our rating could result in an increase in our borrowing costs, which would
diminish financial results.

 

            We are subject to risks associated
with the operation of our wells, pipelines and facilities.

 

            Our
business operations are subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks
normally incidental to the production, transportation, storage and distribution
of natural gas.  These risks could result
in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage
to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other
environmental damage.  As a result, we
are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the
ordinary course of business.  There can
be no assurance that insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability for
such losses will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related
to potential future claims for personal and property damage or that such levels
of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices.

 

                Our need to comply with comprehensive, complex and
sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase our costs and limit
our revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings.

 

            Significant portions
of our gathering, transportation, storage and distribution businesses are
subject to state and federal regulation including regulation of the rates which
we may assess our customers.  The agencies
that regulate our rates may prohibit us from realizing a level of return
which we believe is appropriate.  These
restrictions may take the form of imputed revenue credits, cost
disallowances (including purchased gas cost 

 

13












 

recoveries) and/or expense deferrals.  Additionally, we may be required to
provide additional assistance to low income residential customers to help pay
their bills without the ability to recover some or all of the additional
assistance in rates.

 

            We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal
requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local, as well as foreign
authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety
matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of
substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous
substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality
and availability, plant and wildlife protection, restoration of drilling properties
after drilling is completed, pipeline safety and work practices related to
employee health and safety.  Complying
with these requirements could have a significant effect on our costs of
operations and competitive position.  If
we fail to comply with these requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our
control, such failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal
penalties and damages against us.

 

            The rates of federal, state and
local taxes applicable to the industries in which we operate, including
production taxes paid by Equitable Supply, which often fluctuate, could be
increased by the various taxing authorities. 
In addition, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect our
business could change. Any such increase or change could adversely impact our
cash flows and profitability.

 

                See
Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for
further discussion regarding the Company’s exposure to market risks, including
the risks associated with our use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity
prices.

 

Item 1B