Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

 

Any forward-looking statement applies only as
of the date on which such statement is made and the Company does not intend to
correct or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.

 

PART I

 

Item 1.        Business

 

General

 

EQT Corporation, formerly Equitable Resources, Inc.,
(EQT or the Company) is one of Appalachia’s largest exploration and production
companies with over three trillion cubic feet of proved reserves at December 31,
2008.  The Company and its subsidiaries
offer energy products (natural gas, NGLs and a limited amount of crude oil) and
services to wholesale and retail customers in the United States.  The Company conducts its business through
three business segments: EQT Production, EQT Midstream and Equitable
Distribution.

 

The Company’s proved reserves grew 16% from
2007 to 3,110 Bcfe at December 31, 2008. 
Over the past five years the Company’s proved reserves have grown 47% as
a result of the Company’s drilling program and investment in drilling
technology.

 


 
  
  Proved Natural Gas and Oil
  Reserves(MMcfe)
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Proved Developed
  
  
   
  
  
  1,894,516
  
  
   
  
  
  1,758,641
  
  
   
  
  
  1,725,585
  
  
   
  
  
  1,673,038
  
  
   
  
  
  1,631,409
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Proved Undeveloped
  
  
   
  
  
  1,215,492
  
  
   
  
  
  923,770
  
  
   
  
  
  771,770
  
  
   
  
  
  692,210
  
  
   
  
  
  477,244
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Proved Reserves
  
  
   
  
  
  3,110,008
  
  
   
  
  
  2,682,411
  
  
   
  
  
  2,497,355
  
  
   
  
  
  2,365,248
  
  
   
  
  
  2,108,653
  
  
   
  
 


 

The Company’s reserves are located entirely
in the Appalachian Basin, a production area characterized by wells with long
lives, low production costs, natural gas containing high energy content and
close proximity to 

 

7












Table of Contents

 

natural gas markets.  Many of the Company’s wells have been
producing for decades, in some cases since the early 1900s.

 

The Company’s proved reserves have discounted
future net cash flows before income taxes of $3,245 million ($2,012 million
after tax) at December 31, 2008.  This standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows is calculated using adjusted year-end prices in
accordance with SFAS No. 69.  See Note 24
(unaudited) to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for information
regarding reserves, reserve activity, costs and the standard measure of
discounted future cash flows.

 

While the natural gas exploration and production industry can be
volatile as market prices fluctuate, management believes that the following
factors position the Company to achieve solid relative returns for shareholders
over time:

 


 
  
  ·
  
  
  Over 3.3
  million acres, much of which is held in fee or held by production;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
  3,110 Bcfe
  of proved reserves at December 31, 2008 making EQT one of the largest
  owners of reserves in the Appalachian Basin;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
  The
  Company’s Appalachian reserves are geographically situated between the high
  use natural gas markets in the Northeast and Midwestern United States;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
  EQT’s low
  cost structure, which makes the Company’s drilling efforts resilient to lower
  natural gas prices;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
  Extensive
  midstream infrastructure to deliver gas to markets, including over 10,000
  miles of pipeline;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
  Innovation
  is encouraged as evidenced by the Company’s success in applying air to
  horizontal drilling techniques;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
  Best-in-state
  customer service at Equitable Distribution; and
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
  58 year
  history of paying dividends to shareholders.
  
 


 

Production:  EQT’s strategy is to
maximize value by profitably developing the Company’s extensive acreage
position enabled by a low cost structure. 
The Company is
focused on continuing its significant organic reserve and production growth
through its drilling program and believes that it is a
technological leader in drilling in low pressure shale.  In particular, the use of air in horizontal
drilling has proven to be a cost effective technology which the Company has
efficiently deployed to various geological formations in the Appalachian
mountain terrain and may be deployed to other Company assets in the Basin to
maximize production.

 

In addition to horizontal
air drilling, an activity in which the Company believes it is a technological
leader, the Company’s drilling innovations include drilling re-entry wells
where low pressured vertical shale wells were previously drilled, drilling
multilateral and stacked multilateral horizontal wells and refracing existing
vertical wells.

 

EQT Production’s drilling
has been concentrated within the core areas of southwestern Virginia,
southeastern Kentucky, West Virginia and Pennsylvania and in four major plays:
Huron, coalbed methane, Berea and Marcellus. 
In each of its plays, the Company drills low risk development wells into
reservoirs that are known to be productive.

 

The Company has recently
focused drilling in the Huron play, which includes the Lower Huron, Cleveland
and Rhinestreet formations, and on the coalbed methane play.  EQT has approximately 2.2 million acres in
the Huron play.  In 2008, the Company
ramped up its development programs for the emerging Berea sandstone and
Marcellus plays.  The Company has
approximately 800,000 acres in the Berea play where it expects to drill 40
wells in 2009 and over 400,000 acres in the Marcellus play where it expects to
drill 45 wells, including 20 horizontal wells, in 2009.

 

The Company believes that it will continue to increase
production volumes and proved reserves based on the quality of the underlying
asset base.  Drilling activities resulted
in proved developed reserve additions of approximately 293 Bcfe in 2008.  Of the proved developed reserve additions,
approximately 49 Bcfe related to proved undeveloped reserves that were
transferred to proved developed reserves. 
The Company’s 2008 extensions, discoveries and other additions of 585
Bcfe was 646% of 2008 production of 90.6 Bcfe.

 

8












Table
of Contents

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  For the year ended December 31,
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Gross Wells Drilled
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Horizontal:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Marcellus
  
  
   
  
  
  7
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Berea
  
  
   
  
  
  24
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Huron
  
  
   
  
  
  357
  
  
   
  
  
  88
  
  
   
  
  
  5
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Coalbed Methane
  
  
   
  
  
  1
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Horizontal
  
  
   
  
  
  389
  
  
   
  
  
  88
  
  
   
  
  
  5
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Vertical:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Vertical Commingled
  
  
   
  
  
  103
  
  
   
  
  
  280
  
  
   
  
  
  413
  
  
   
  
  
  294
  
  
   
  
  
  209
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Marcellus
  
  
   
  
  
  16
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Coal Bed Methane
  
  
   
  
  
  160
  
  
   
  
  
  266
  
  
   
  
  
  237
  
  
   
  
  
  161
  
  
   
  
  
  105
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Wells Drilled
  
  
   
  
  
  668
  
  
   
  
  
  634
  
  
   
  
  
  655
  
  
   
  
  
  455
  
  
   
  
  
  314
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Infill Wells Included Above
  
  
   
  
  
  25
  
  
   
  
  
  36
  
  
   
  
  
  16
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
 


 

The Company spent
approximately $701 million on well development (primarily drilling) in
2008.  Sales volumes increased 12% in
2008 (adjusted for the 2007 sale of interests which provided sales of 1,966
MMcfe during 2007).

 

Capital spending for well development (primarily
drilling) in 2009 is
expected to be approximately $600 million to support the drilling of up to 675
gross wells, including 375 gross horizontal wells.  Sales volumes are expected
to reach 96-97 Bcfe in 2009.  A substantial portion of the Company’s
2009 drilling efforts will be focused on drilling horizontal wells in the Huron
play where midstream pipeline and processing capacity are largely in
place.  Current capital market conditions
were considered when the 2009 capital program was developed.  The Company currently
anticipates that the capital spending plan will not require the Company to
access capital markets through the end of 2010. 
Even so, the Company anticipates natural gas sales volume growth of 15%
in 2009.  If the capital markets become
unconstrained, the Company believes it has a long-term sales volume growth
potential of greater than 20% per year.

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  For the year ended December 31,
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  (MMcfe)
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Natural gas and oil production
  
  
   
  
  
  90,585
  
  
   
  
  
  83,114
  
  
   
  
  
  81,371
  
  
   
  
  
  78,755
  
  
   
  
  
  72,760
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Company usage, line loss
  
  
   
  
  
  (6,577
  
  
  )
  
  
  (6,035
  
  
  )
  
  
  (5,215
  
  
  )
  
  
  (4,897
  
  
  )
  
  
  (5,090
  
  
  )
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Natural gas inventory usage, net
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  51
  
  
   
  
  
  61
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total sales volumes
  
  
   
  
  
  84,008
  
  
   
  
  
  77,079
  
  
   
  
  
  76,156
  
  
   
  
  
  73,909
  
  
   
  
  
  67,731
  
  
   
  
 


 

9












Table
of Contents

 

Midstream:  EQT Midstream provides gathering, processing,
transmission and storage services to EQT Production and independent third
parties.  In 2008, EQT Midstream focused
on building a long-term growth platform, highlighted by the construction of the
Big Sandy Pipeline, the Kentucky Hydrocarbon processing plant and the Mayking
corridor.  This infrastructure
development facilitates the development of EQT Production’s growing reserve
base in the Huron play and provides opportunities to sell capacity to third
parties.  In 2009, EQT Midstream will
focus on continuing to expand its gathering system through well connections to
existing midstream infrastructure and thereby filling existing capacity.  Additionally, initial infrastructure
expansion in the Marcellus play in southwestern Pennsylvania and northern West
Virginia is slated for 2009.

 

As of December 31,
2008, EQT Midstream’s gathering system included approximately 10,450 miles of
gathering lines located in western Pennsylvania, West Virginia, eastern
Kentucky and southwestern Virginia.  The Company
also has a gas processing facility, Kentucky Hydrocarbon, located in Langley,
Kentucky.  Transmission and storage
operations include approximately 970 miles of lines located throughout eastern
Kentucky, north central West Virginia and southwestern Pennsylvania.  The transmission and storage system
interconnects with five major interstate pipelines: Texas Eastern Transmission,
Columbia Gas Transmission, National Fuel Gas Supply, Tennessee Gas Pipeline and
Dominion Transmission.  EQT Midstream
also has 14 natural gas storage reservoirs with approximately 496 MMcf per day
of peak delivery capability and 63 Bcf of storage capacity of which 32 Bcf is
working gas.  These storage reservoirs
are geographically clustered, with eight in northern West Virginia and six in
southwestern Pennsylvania.  In addition,
EQT Midstream, through Equitrans,
L.P. (Equitrans, the Company’s interstate pipeline affiliate) and Equitable
Energy, LLC (Equitable Energy, the Company’s gas marketing affiliate) leased 6.3 Bcf of contractual storage and 138,500 Dth per day of
contractual pipeline capacity from third parties as of December 31,
2008.

 

In 2008, Equitable Energy
executed a binding precedent agreement with Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company
(TGP), a wholly owned subsidiary of El Paso Corporation, for a 15-year term
that awarded the Company 300,000 Dth per day of capacity in TGP’s 300-Line
expansion project.  When completed, this
expansion project will consist of approximately 128 miles of 30-inch pipe loop
and approximately 52,000 horsepower of additional compression facilities to be
constructed in TGP’s existing pipeline corridor in Pennsylvania and New
Jersey.  The awarded capacity will
provide EQT access to consumer markets from the Gulf Coast to the Mid-Atlantic
and the Northeast and will also provide back-haul capacity of 300,000 Dth per day
to the Gulf Coast.

 

Capital expenditures for
Midstream infrastructure were $594 million in 2008.  During 2008, the Company turned in line the
Mayking Corridor project (Mayking), which consists of three compressor units
and 38 miles of pipe; completed an expansion of the Kentucky Hydrocarbon
facility, which increased its gas processing capacity from 70 MMcfe per day to
170 MMcfe per day; and turned in line the Big Sandy Pipeline, which connects
the Kentucky Hydrocarbon processing plant to the Tennessee Gas Pipeline in
Carter County, Kentucky, and currently provides up to 130,000 Dth per day of
firm transportation service.  The Big
Sandy Pipeline capacity is expandable with additional compression.

 

Capital expenditures on
Midstream infrastructure projects in 2009 will be reduced to $360 million as a
result of the shift in focus from completing major infrastructure projects to
expanding the gathering system in areas with existing midstream
infrastructure.  This will facilitate
moving a greater volume of EQT Production’s gas to market.  If the capital markets become less
constrained, EQT Midstream will consider increasing investment in corridor
infrastructure projects to provide additional capacity needed to facilitate
production growth.

 

Distribution:  Equitable Distribution’s business strategy is to earn
a competitive return on its asset base through regulatory mechanisms and
operational efficiency.  Equitable
Distribution is focused on enhancing the value of its existing assets by establishing
a reputation for excellent customer service, effectively managing its capital
spending, improving the efficiency of its workforce through superior work
management and continuing to leverage technology throughout its
operations.  In 2008, Equitable Gas filed
a base rate case in Pennsylvania to recover an increased return on assets
placed in service since the previous rate case and to fully recover costs
associated with the customer assistance programs.  Equitable Distribution expects to spend
approximately $30 million on capital expenditures in 2009.

 

10












Table
of Contents

 

Equitable Gas Company
(Equitable Gas, EQT’s regulated natural gas distribution subsidiary)
distributes and sells natural gas to local residential, commercial and
industrial customers in southwestern Pennsylvania, West Virginia and eastern
Kentucky.  Equitable Gas also operates a
small gathering system in Pennsylvania and provides off-system sales
activities.  The off-system sales
activities include the purchase and delivery of gas to customers at mutually
agreed-upon points on facilities not owned by the Company.

 

Equitable Gas has made great strides over
recent years towards achieving its operational goals.  For instance, Equitable Gas pioneered the use
of monthly automated meter readings throughout its Pennsylvania service
territory which has improved monthly billings and customer satisfaction.  The customer call center has demonstrated
significantly improved operating performance in responding to customer
inquiries and has added self-service functionality.  On-time scheduled appointment performance has
increased to its highest levels in recent years.  In a recent survey by the American Gas
Association, Equitable Gas’s damage prevention program scored in the top
quartile of gas utility companies nationwide.

 

Markets and Customers

 

Natural Gas Sales:  EQT Production’s produced natural gas is sold
to marketers (including Equitable Energy), utilities and industrial customers
located mainly in the Appalachian area. 
For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales to one marketer
accounted for approximately 13% of revenues for EQT Production.  No customers accounted for more than 10% of
revenues in 2007 or 2006.  Natural gas is
a commodity and therefore the Company receives market-based pricing.  The market price for natural gas can be
volatile as evidenced by the high natural gas prices in early through mid 2008
followed by dramatic decreases later in the year.  The market price for gas located in the
Appalachian Basin is generally higher than the price for gas located in the
Gulf Coast, largely due to the differential in the cost to transport gas to
customers in the northeastern United States. 
The Company hedges a portion of its forecasted natural gas
production.  The Company’s hedging
strategy and information regarding its derivative instruments is outlined in
Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and in
Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

Natural gas drilling
activity in the Appalachian Basin increased during 2007 and the first half of
2008 as suppliers attempted to take advantage of higher natural gas prices and
reacted to reported successes in the Marcellus play.  This increased drilling activity placed
constraints on the availability of labor, equipment, pipeline transport and
other resources in the Appalachian Basin, but also attracted higher quality
rigs and additional service providers to the region and provided opportunities
for expansion of natural gas gathering activities.  Lower sales prices for natural gas in the
latter part of 2008 reduced drilling activity in the Appalachian Basin but did
not have a significant impact on the availability or cost of resources.  EQT Production has qualified numerous vendors
and service providers for key resources and is not dependent upon any single
vendor or service provider to meet production or sales goals.

 

The increase in Appalachian
Basin production intensified pressure on the already stretched capacity of
existing gathering and midstream processing and transport systems in the
Appalachian Basin.  As a result, the
Company entered into third party firm contractual capacity
arrangements amounting to 188,318 Dth per day as of December 31, 2008
and discounted sales arrangements approximating 9,500 Dth per day as of December 31,
2008 to obtain transportation capacity so that its gas continues to flow to
market.

 

Natural Gas Gathering:  EQT Midstream derives gathering revenues from
charges to customers for use of its gathering system in the Appalachian
Basin.  The gathering system volumes are
transported to three major interstate pipelines: Columbia Gas Transmission,
East Tennessee Natural Gas Company and Dominion Transmission.  The gathering system also maintains
interconnects with Equitrans. 
Maintaining these interconnects provides the Company with access to
geographically diverse markets.

 

Gathering system
transportation volumes for 2008 totaled 145,031 BBtu, of which approximately
53% related to gathering for EQT Production, 28% related to third party volumes
and 10% related to volumes for other affiliates of the Company.  The remainder related to volumes in which
interests were sold by the Company but which the Company continued to operate
for a fee.  Revenues from affiliates
accounted for approximately 80% of 2008 gathering revenues.

 

11












Table of Contents

 

Natural Gas Processing:  The Company processes
natural gas in order to extract heavier liquid hydrocarbons (propane,
iso-butane, normal butane and natural gasoline) from the natural gas stream,
primarily from EQT Production’s produced gas. 
On a per energy unit basis, these liquid hydrocarbons can typically be
sold at a price premium versus natural gas; the value of this premium is
referred to as the frac spread.  As a
result of market conditions, the Company experienced reduced frac spreads in
the second half of 2008.

 

NGLs are recovered at EQT’s Kentucky
Hydrocarbon facility and transported to a fractionation plant owned by a third
party for separation into commercial components.  The third party markets these components and
in exchange retains an agreed-upon percentage of NGLs delivered by the
Company.  The Company also has
contractual processing arrangements whereby the Company sells gas to a third
party processor at a weighted average liquids component price.

 

While natural gas processing produces
independent revenues, the Company’s primary reason for these activities is to
comply with the product quality specifications of the pipelines on which the
Company’s produced natural gas is transported and sold.  As a result, the Company typically engages in
gas processing at locations where its produced gas would not satisfy the
downstream interstate pipeline’s gas quality specifications.  Without sufficient processing, the Company’s
natural gas production could be interrupted as a result of an inability to
achieve required interstate pipeline specifications.  Thus, as the Company’s production continues
to grow, its gas processing capacity must also grow.

 

Natural Gas Transmission and
Storage:  Services offered by Equitable Energy include
commodity procurement, sales, delivery, risk management, and other
services.  These operations are executed
using Company owned and operated or contracted transmission and underground
storage facilities as well as other contractual capacity arrangements with
major pipeline and storage service providers in the eastern United States.  Equitable Energy uses leased storage capacity
and firm transportation capacity, including the Company’s Big Sandy Pipeline
capacity, to take advantage of price differentials and arbitrage
opportunities.  Equitable Energy also
engages in energy trading and risk management activities for the Company.  The objective of these activities is to limit
the Company’s exposure to shifts in market prices and to optimize the use of
the Company’s assets.  As a result of
declining natural gas prices, Equitable Energy experienced reduced storage and
commercial margins in the second half of 2008.

 

Customers of EQT Midstream’s
gas transportation, storage, risk management and related services are
affiliates and third parties in the northeastern United States, including but
not limited to, Dominion Resources, Inc., Keyspan Corporation, NiSource, Inc.,
PECO Energy Company and UGI Energy Services, Inc.  Equitable Energy’s commodity procurement,
sales, delivery, risk management, and other services are offered to natural gas
producers and energy consumers including large industrial, utility, commercial
and institutional end-users.

 

Equitrans’ firm
transportation contracts on its mainline system expire between 2009 and 2017,
and the firm transportation contracts on its Big Sandy Pipeline expire in
2018.  The Company anticipates that the
capacity associated with these expiring contracts will be remarketed or used by
affiliates such that the capacity will remain fully subscribed.  In 2008, approximately 78% of transportation
volumes and approximately 83% of transportation revenues were from affiliates.

 

Natural Gas Distribution: Equitable
Distribution provides natural gas distribution services to approximately
275,800 customers, consisting of 257,200 residential customers and 18,600
commercial and industrial customers in southwestern Pennsylvania,
municipalities in northern West Virginia and field line sales, also referred to
as farm tap service, in eastern Kentucky and West Virginia.  These service areas have a rather static
population and economy.

 

Customer conservation as
a result of product efficiency and increased natural gas prices has reduced
residential customer usage over time despite the increasing availability of
natural gas based products.  The Company
has not experienced a significant decrease in weather adjusted throughput or
deterioration in customer collections due to the recent economic downturn.  If this downturn persists, Equitable
Distribution may experience a reduction in commercial and industrial throughput
as well as an increase in bad debt expense, which would reduce the return on
its asset base.

 

12












Table of Contents

 

Equitable Gas purchases gas
through contracts with various sources including major and independent
producers in the Gulf Coast, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas
marketers (including an affiliate).  The
gas purchase contracts contain various pricing mechanisms, ranging from fixed
prices to several different index-related prices.

 

Because most of its
customers use natural gas for heating purposes, Equitable Gas’ revenues are
seasonal, with approximately 71% of calendar year 2008 revenues occurring
during the winter heating season (the months of January, February, March, November and
December).  Significant quantities of
purchased natural gas are placed in underground storage inventory during the
off-peak season to accommodate higher demand during the winter heating season.

 

Competition

 

The combination of
long-lived production, low drilling costs, high drilling completion rates and proximity to natural gas markets has
resulted in a highly fragmented operating environment in the Appalachian
Basin.  Natural gas producers compete in
the acquisition of properties, the search for and development of reserves, the
production and sale of natural gas and the securing of labor and equipment
required to conduct operations.  Competitors include major oil and gas
companies, other independent oil and gas companies and individual producers and
operators.  Key competitors for new
gathering and processing systems include independent gas gatherers and
integrated Appalachian energy companies. 
Natural gas marketing activities compete with numerous other companies
offering the same services.  Some of these competitors are affiliates of
companies with extensive pipeline systems that are used for transportation from
producers to end-users.  The Company’s
distribution operations face competition from other local distribution
companies, alternative fuels and reduced usage among customers as a result of
conservation.

 

Regulation

 

EQT
Production’s natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state, and
local laws and regulations, including regulations related to the location of
wells; drilling, stimulating and casing of wells; water withdrawal and
disbursement for well stimulation purposes; well production; spill prevention
plans; the use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and materials
incidental to oil and gas operations; surface usage and the reclamation of
properties upon which wells or other facilities have been located; the
calculation and disbursement of royalty payments and taxes; the plugging and
abandoning of wells; and the gathering of production in certain circumstances.

 

EQT
Production’s operations are also subject to conservation regulations, including
the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or field rule units;
the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit; and the unitization or
pooling of natural gas properties.  EQT
Production’s operating states allow in certain circumstances the forced pooling
or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration, while in other
circumstances it is necessary to rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases
which may make it more difficult to develop natural gas properties.  In addition, state conservation laws
generally limit the venting or flaring of natural gas.  The effect of these regulations is to limit
the amounts of natural gas we produce from our wells and to limit the number of
wells or the locations at which we drill.

 

EQT Midstream has both
regulated and non-regulated operations. 
The regulated activities consist of federally-regulated transmission and
storage operations and certain state-regulated gathering operations.  The non-regulated activities include certain
gathering and transportation operations, processing of NGLs and risk management
activities.  Equitrans’ rates and
operations are subject to regulation by the FERC.  The
2006 FERC rate case settlement allows Equitrans, among other things, to
institute an annual surcharge for the tracking and recovery of all costs (operations,
maintenance and return on invested capital) incurred on and after September 1,
2005, related to Equitrans’ Pipeline Safety Program under the Pipeline Safety
Improvement Act of 2002.  The Company has
continued to utilize the surcharge mechanism each year to recover costs
incurred in connection with its Pipeline Safety Program.  Under the terms of the 2006 settlement,
Equitrans may not seek new base transmission and storage rates prior to June 1,
2009 or new gathering base rates prior to November 1, 2010.  In 2008, the Big Sandy Pipeline was placed in
service in eastern Kentucky.  Big Sandy’s
initial rate agreements provide for a firm reservation charge of $19.77 per
maximum daily quantity for a term of ten years.

 

13












Table
of Contents

 

Equitable Gas’ distribution
rates, terms of service and contracts with affiliates are subject to
comprehensive regulation by the PA PUC and the WV PSC.  In addition, the issuance of securities by Equitable Gas is
subject to regulation by the PA PUC.  The field line sales rates in Kentucky are
subject to rate regulation by the Kentucky Public Service Commission.

 

Equitable Gas
must usually seek the approval of one or more of its regulators prior to
changing its rates.  Currently, Equitable
Gas passes through to its regulated customers the cost of its purchased gas and
transportation activities.  Equitable Gas
is allowed to recover a return in addition to the costs of its transportation
activities.  However, Equitable Gas’
regulators do not guarantee recovery and may require that certain costs of
operation be recovered over an extended term. 
Equitable Gas filed a base rate case in the second quarter of 2008 and
reached a settlement in principal with the active parties to the proceeding in November 2008.  The settlement must be
approved by the PA PUC to be effective. 
On January 20, 2009, a PA PUC Administrative Law Judge recommended
that the PA PUC approve of the rate case settlement.  The PA PUC is expected to act before March 31,
2009.

 

Pennsylvania law requires
that local distribution companies develop and implement programs to assist
low-income customers with paying their gas bills. The costs of these programs
are recovered through rates charged to other residential customers.  Equitable Gas has several such programs,
including the CAP.  On September 27,
2007, the PA PUC issued an order approving an increase to Equitable Gas’ CAP
surcharge, which is designed to offset the higher costs of the CAP.  The revised surcharge went into effect on October 2,
2007.  If the rate case settlement is approved, Equitable Gas
will increase the CAP surcharge from $0.58/mcf to $1.30/mcf and will receive an
annual reconciliation of CAP costs to ensure complete recovery beginning in the
first quarter of 2009.

 

Equitable Gas
has worked with, and continues to work with, regulators to implement
alternative cost recovery programs. 
Equitable Gas’ tariffs for commercial and industrial customers allow for
negotiated rates in limited circumstances. 
Regulators periodically audit the Company’s compliance with applicable
regulatory requirements.  The Company is
not aware of any significant non-compliance as a result of any completed audits.

 

Employees

 

The Company and its subsidiaries had approximately
1,680 employees at the end of 2008.

 

Holding
Company Reorganization

 

On June 30, 2008, the
former Equitable Resources, Inc. (Old EQT) entered into and completed an
Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Plan) under which Old EQT reorganized into a
holding company structure such that a newly formed Pennsylvania corporation,
also named Equitable Resources, Inc. (New EQT), became the publicly traded
holding company of Old EQT and its subsidiaries.  The primary purpose of this reorganization
(the Reorganization) was to separate Old EQT’s state-regulated distribution
operations into a new subsidiary in order to better segregate its regulated and
unregulated businesses and improve overall financing flexibility.  To effect the Reorganization, Old EQT formed
New EQT, a wholly-owned subsidiary, and New EQT, in turn, formed EGC Merger
Co., a Pennsylvania corporation owned solely by New EQT (MergerSub).  Under the Plan, MergerSub merged with and
into Old EQT with Old EQT surviving (the Merger).  The Merger resulted in Old EQT becoming a
direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of New EQT. 
New EQT changed its name to EQT Corporation effective February 9,
2009.  Throughout this Annual Report,
references to EQT, EQT Corporation and the Company refer collectively to New
EQT and its consolidated subsidiaries.

 

Availability
of Reports

 

The Company makes certain
filings with the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments
and exhibits to those reports, available free of charge through its website,
http://www.eqt.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after the date they are
filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 
The filings are also available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.  Also, these filings are available on the
internet at http://www.sec.gov.  The
Company’s annual reports to shareholders, press releases and recent analyst
presentations are also available on the Company’s website.

 

14











Table of Contents

 

Discontinued Operations

 

The Company sold its NORESCO
domestic business in 2005 and completed the sale of the remaining interest in
its investment in IGC/ERI Pan-Am Thermal Generating Limited (Pan Am),
previously included in the NORESCO business segment, in 2006. As a result of
these transactions, the Company has reclassified its financial statements for
all periods presented to reflect the operating results of the NORESCO segment
as discontinued operations.

 

Composition of Segment
Operating Revenues

 

Presented below are
operating revenues as a percentage of total operating revenues for each class
of products and services representing greater than 10% of total operating
revenues during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006.

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  EQT Production:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Natural gas equivalents sales
  
  
   
  
  
  20
  
  
  %
  
  
  23
  
  
  %
  
  
  24
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  EQT Midstream:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Marketed natural gas sales
  
  
   
  
  
  12
  
  
  %
  
  
  18
  
  
  %
  
  
  13
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Equitable Distribution:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential natural gas sales
  
  
   
  
  
  23
  
  
  %
  
  
  23
  
  
  %
  
  
  24
  
  
  %
  
 


 

Financial
Information About Segments

 

In January 2008, the
Company announced a change in organizational structure to better align the
Company to execute its growth strategy for development and infrastructure expansion
in the Appalachian Basin. These changes resulted in changes to the Company’s
reporting segments effective for fiscal year 2008. The segment disclosures and
discussions contained in this report have been reclassified to reflect all
periods presented under the current organizational structure.

 

See Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information by business segment
including, but not limited to, revenues from external customers, operating
income, and total assets.

 

Financial Information
About Geographic Areas

 

Substantially all of the
Company’s assets and operations are located in the continental United States.

 

Environmental

 

See Note 20 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding environmental
matters.

 

15












Table of Contents

 

Item 1A.            Risk Factors

 

Risks Relating to Our Business

 

In addition to the other information contained in this
Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating
our business and future prospects. Please note that additional risks not
presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have
a negative impact on our business and operations. If any of the events or
circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial
condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our
common stock could decline.

 

Natural gas price volatility may have an adverse effect on
our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and liquidity.

 

Our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and
liquidity depend upon the price for natural gas. The markets for natural gas
are volatile and fluctuations in prices will affect our financial results. Natural
gas prices are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which
include: weather conditions; the supply of and demand for natural gas; national
and worldwide economic and political conditions; the price and availability of
alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on,
transportation facilities; and government regulations, such as regulation of
natural gas transportation and price controls.

 

Lower natural gas prices
may result in decreases in the construction of new transportation
capacity, decreased margin opportunities for our marketing and gathering
services businesses and downward adjustments to the value of our estimated
proved reserves which may cause us to incur non-cash charges to earnings. We
are also exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties in
the event that changes, positive or negative, in natural gas prices result in
derivative contracts with a positive fair value. Finally, lower natural gas prices affect the amount of cash flow
available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money and raise
additional capital.

 

Increases in natural gas prices may be
accompanied by or result in increased well drilling costs, increased deferral
of purchased gas costs for our distribution operations, increased production
taxes, increased lease operating expenses, increased exposure to credit losses
resulting from potential increases in uncollectible accounts receivable from
our distribution customers, increased volatility in seasonal gas price spreads
for our storage assets and increased customer conservation or conversion to
alternative fuels. Significant price increases subject us to margin calls on
our commodity price derivative contracts (hedging arrangements, including
futures contracts, swap agreements and exchange traded instruments) which would
potentially require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral with our
hedge counterparties. The cash collateral, which is interest-bearing, provided
to our hedge counterparties is returned to us in whole or in part upon a
reduction in forward market prices, depending on the amount of such reduction,
or in whole upon settlement of the related hedged transaction. In addition, to
the extent we have hedged our current production at prices below the current
market price, we are unable to benefit fully from an increase in the price of
natural gas.

 

The
global financial challenges may adversely affect our business and financial
condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Downgrades to our credit
ratings could increase our costs of borrowing adversely affecting our business,
results of operations and liquidity.

 

We rely upon access to
both short-term bank and money markets and longer-term capital markets as
sources of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash
flow from operations.  Continued challenges in the global financial
system, including the capital markets, may adversely affect our business and
our financial condition and we may face challenges if conditions in the
financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may
be restricted at a time when we desire, or need, to raise capital, which could
have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business
conditions. The economic situation could adversely affect the collectability of
our trade receivables. Market conditions could cause our commodity hedging
counterparties to be unable to perform their obligations or to seek bankruptcy
protection. The current economic situation could lead to reduced demand for
natural gas which could have a negative impact on our revenues and our credit
ratings.

 

16












Table of Contents

 

Any downgrade of our credit ratings may increase the
cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to raise capital through the
issuance of debt or equity securities or other borrowing arrangements, which
could adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity. We
cannot be sure that our current ratings will remain in effect for any given
period of time or that our rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by
a rating agency.  An increase in the level of our indebtedness in the
future may result in a downgrade in the ratings that are assigned to our
debt.  Any downgrade in our ratings could result in an increase in our
borrowing costs, which would diminish financial results.

 

Our need to comply with comprehensive, complex and sometimes
unpredictable government regulations may increase our costs and limit our
revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings.

 

Significant portions of our gathering, transportation,
storage and distribution businesses are subject to state and federal regulation
including regulation of the rates which we may assess our customers. The
agencies that regulate our rates may prohibit us from realizing a level of
return which we believe is appropriate. These restrictions may take the
form of imputed revenue credits, cost disallowances (including purchased
gas cost recoveries) and/or expense deferrals. Additionally, we may be
required to provide additional assistance to low income residential customers
to help pay their bills without the ability to recover some or all of the
additional assistance in rates.

 

We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal
requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local, as well as foreign
authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety
matters. These laws and regulations currently include legal requirements that
govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and
disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated
sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection,
restoration of drilling properties after drilling is completed, pipeline safety
and work practices related to employee health and safety. New and modified laws
and regulations could include regulations regarding carbon cap and trade, a
carbon tax or other climate change matters and could cause the distribution
business to expend capital not included in its budget to move and relocate
lines in support of any federal stimulus package. Complying with existing and
changing legal requirements could have a significant effect on our costs of
operations and competitive position. The failure to comply with these
requirements, even if as a result of factors beyond our control, could result
in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us.

 

The rates of federal, state and local taxes applicable
to the industries in which we operate, including production taxes paid by EQT
Production, which often fluctuate, could be increased by the various taxing
authorities. In addition, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect
our business could change. Any such increase or change could adversely impact
our cash flows and profitability.

 

Strategic
determinations regarding the allocation of capital and other resources in the
current economic environment are challenging and our failure to appropriately
allocate capital and resources among our businesses may adversely affect our
financial condition and reduce our growth rate.

 

In developing our 2009
business plan, we considered allocating capital and other resources to various
aspects of our businesses including well-development (primarily drilling),
reserve acquisitions, exploratory activity, midstream infrastructure,
distribution infrastructure, corporate items and other alternatives. We also
considered our likely sources of capital. Notwithstanding the determinations
made in the development of our 2009 plan, business opportunities not previously
identified periodically come to our attention, including possible acquisitions
and dispositions. If we don’t optimize our capital investment and capital
raising opportunities and the use of our other resources, our financial
condition and growth rate may be adversely affected.

 

The amount and timing of actual future gas
production is difficult to predict and may vary significantly from our
estimates which may reduce our earnings.

 

Our future success depends upon our ability to develop
additional gas reserves that are economically recoverable and to optimize
existing well production, and our failure to do so may reduce our earnings.
We have expanded our drilling program in recent years and have announced plans
to drill approximately 675 wells in 2009, including a target of 375 horizontal
wells. Our drilling and subsequent maintenance of wells can involve significant


 

17












Table of Contents

 

risks, including those related
to timing, cost overruns and operational efficiency, and these risks can be
affected by the availability of capital, leases, rigs and a qualified work
force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals,
title problems, geology and other factors. Drilling for natural gas can be
unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not
produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Additionally, a failure to
effectively and efficiently operate existing wells may cause production volumes
to fall short of our projections. Without continued successful development or
acquisition activities, together with effective operation of existing wells,
our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves
being depleted by production.

 

Our
failure to develop and maintain the necessary infrastructure to successfully
deliver gas to market may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results
of operations.

 

Our delivery of gas depends upon the availability of
adequate transportation infrastructure. As previously announced, $360 million
of our 2009 capital expenditures are planned for investment in midstream
infrastructure. Investment in midstream infrastructure is intended to address a lack
of capacity on, and access to, existing gathering and transportation pipelines
as well as processing adjacent to and curtailments on such pipelines.
Our infrastructure development and maintenance programs can involve significant
risks, including those related to timing, cost overruns and operational
efficiency, and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital,
materials, and qualified contractors and work force, as well as weather
conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title problems,
geology, compliance by third parties with their contractual obligations to us
and other factors. We also deliver to and are served by third party gas
gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities which are limited
in number and geographically concentrated. An extended interruption of access
to or service from these facilities could result in adverse consequences to us.

 

We are
subject to risks associated with the operation of our wells, pipelines and
facilities.

 

Our business operations are subject to all of the
inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the production,
transportation, storage and distribution of natural gas. These risks could
result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe
damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other
environmental damage. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal
proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. There
can be no assurance that insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability
for such losses will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses
related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or
that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical
prices.

 

Our failure to assess production opportunities based on
market conditions could negatively impact our long-term growth prospects for
our production business.

 

Our goal of sustaining
long-term growth for our production business is contingent upon our ability to
identify production opportunities based on market conditions. Our decision to
drill a prospect is subject to a number of factors which may alter our drilling
schedule or our plans to drill at all. We may have difficulty drilling all of
the wells before the lease term expires which could result in the loss of
certain leasehold rights or we could drill wells in locations where we do not
have the necessary infrastructure to deliver the gas to market. Successfully
identifying production opportunities involves a high degree of business
experience, knowledge and careful evaluation of potential opportunities, along
with subjective judgments and assumptions which may prove to be incorrect. Our
recent addition of exploration projects increases the risks inherent in our
natural gas activities. Specifically, seismic data is subject to interpretation
and may not accurately identify the presence of natural gas, which could
adversely affect the results of our operations. Because we have a limited
operating history in certain exploratory areas, our future operating results
are difficult to forecast, and our failure to sustain high growth rates in the
future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

 

See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk,” for further discussion regarding the Company’s
exposure to market risks, including the risks associated with our use of
derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices.

 

18












Table of Contents

 

Item 1B