Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this
Form 10-K.

 

Any forward-looking statement applies only as of the date on which such
statement is made and the Company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

 

PART I

 

Item 1.            Business

 

General

 

EQT Corporation
(EQT or the Company) conducts its business through three business segments: EQT
Production, EQT Midstream and Distribution. 
EQT Production is one of the largest natural gas producers in the
Appalachian Basin with 4.1 trillion cubic feet of proved reserves across 3.4
million acres as of December 31, 2009. 
EQT offers energy products (natural gas, NGLs and a limited amount of
crude oil) and services to wholesale and retail customers in the United States
via EQT Midstream and Distribution.  

 

Overall, EQT’s
increased production, increased reserves, low cost structure and record results
for EQT Midstream and Distribution operations resulted in an outstanding
2009.  Some highlights for the year
included:

 

▪              Sales
of produced natural gas of 100.1 Bcfe, a 19% increase over 2008;

 

6












Table of Contents

 


 
  
  ▪
  
  
  A 31% increase in proved reserves to 4.1 Tcfe;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  ▪
  
  
  EQT drilled its 800th horizontal
  Huron/Berea well, and nearly one third of fourth quarter sales were produced
  from horizontal Huron/Berea wells;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  ▪
  
  
  The Company drilled 702 gross wells during 2009 of
  which 403 were horizontal wells, 347 targeting the Huron/Berea play and 46
  targeting the Marcellus play;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  ▪
  
  
  The company was successful on more than 99% of the
  wells drilled in 2009;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  ▪
  
  
  Achieved 14% decrease in unit lease operating
  expense (LOE), excluding production taxes, to $0.30 per Mcfe. Including
  production taxes, LOE was $0.59 per Mcfe, an industry leading result;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  ▪
  
  
  Record EQT Midstream throughput and operating
  income; and
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  ▪
  
  
  Record Distribution operating income of $78.9 million, 32% higher
  than in 2008.
  
 


 

Production 

 

EQT Production has 4.1 Tcfe of proved reserves across
three major plays: Huron/Berea, Marcellus and CBM, all located in the
Appalachian Basin.  The Company’s
strategy is to maximize value by profitably developing its extensive acreage
position enabled by a low cost structure. 
EQT Production is focused on continuing its significant organic reserve
and production growth through its drilling program and believes that it is a
technological leader in drilling in low pressure shale.  In particular, the use of air in horizontal
drilling has proven to be a cost effective technology which the Company has
efficiently deployed in its Huron/Berea play.

 

The Company’s well
profile is generally low-risk wells with long lives, low development and
production costs, high energy content natural gas and close proximity to
natural gas markets.  Many of these wells
have been producing for decades, with several in production since early in the
20th century. 


 

To date, EQT has focused
its highly successful horizontal air drilling program in the Huron/Berea play
where the Company has approximately 2.7 million acres and 2.8 Tcfe of proved
reserves.  This technology has been used
in fractured horizontal single lateral wells, non-fractured horizontal
multilateral wells, stacked horizontal wells and extended lateral wells.  EQT is also employing horizontal drilling
technology to its 450,000 acres and 1.1 Tcfe of proved reserves in the
Marcellus play. 

 

Horizontal wells drilled
by the Company over the past five years are as follows:

 


 
  
   
  
  
  For the
  years ended December 31,
  
 
 
  
  Gross
  Horizontal  Wells 
  Drilled 
  
  
  2009
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
 
 
  
      Huron/Berea
  
  
  356
  
  
   
  
  
  381
  
  
   
  
  
  88
  
  
   
  
  
  5
  
  
   
  
  
  –
  
 
 
  
      Marcellus
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  7
  
  
   
  
  
  –
  
  
   
  
  
  –
  
  
   
  
  
  –
  
 
 
  
      Other
  
  
  1
  
  
   
  
  
  1
  
  
   
  
  
  –
  
  
   
  
  
  –
  
  
   
  
  
  –
  
 
 
  
       Total Horizontal
  
  
  403
  
  
   
  
  
  389
  
  
   
  
  
  88
  
  
   
  
  
  5
  
  
   
  
  
  –
  
 


 

EQT’s proved reserves increased by 31% in 2009 and by
72% over the past five years while the Company’s cost structure remained at an
industry leading level.  EQT’s 2009
3-year finding and development costs are among the lowest in the industry at
$0.94 per Mcfe with 2009 costs at a low of $0.68 per Mcfe.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s proved
reserves, including proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves, and the
resource plays to which the reserves relate are as follows:

 

7












Table of Contents

 


 
  
  (Bcfe)
  
  
  Huron/Berea*
  
  
  Marcellus
  
  
  Coalbed Methane
  
  
  Total
  
 
 
  
  Proved
  Developed
  
  
  1,758
  
  
     153
  
  
  162
  
  
  2,073
  
 
 
  
  Proved
  Undeveloped
  
  
  1,033
  
  
     908
  
  
    54
  
  
  1,995
  
 
 
  
  Total
  Proved Reserves 
  
  
  2,791
  
  
  1,061
  
  
  216
  
  
  4,068
  
 


*  The Company includes the Lower Huron,
Cleveland, Berea sandstone and other Devonian shales, except Marcellus, in its
Huron/Berea play.  Also included in the
Huron/Berea play is 775 Bcfe of reserves from non-shale formations accessed
through vertical wells.

 

Midstream  

 

EQT Midstream provides
gathering, processing, transmission and storage services to EQT Production and
to independent third parties in the Appalachian Basin.  The Company has approximately 10,650 miles of
gathering lines and 970 miles of transmission lines.  EQT also owns and operates Kentucky
Hydrocarbon, a gas processing facility in Langley, Kentucky.  Through Equitrans L.P. (Equitrans, EQT’s
interstate pipeline affiliate), EQT’s transmission and storage system interconnects
with five major interstate pipelines: Texas Eastern Transmission, Columbia Gas
Transmission, National Fuel Gas Supply, Tennessee Gas Pipeline, and Dominion
Transmission.  EQT Midstream’s 14 natural
gas storage reservoirs provide approximately 500 MMcf per day of peak delivery
capability and 63 Bcf of storage capacity, of which 32 Bcf is working gas.  EQT’s storage reservoirs are clustered in two
geographic areas, with eight in northern West Virginia and six in southwestern
Pennsylvania.  As of December 31, 2009,
EQT Midstream, through Equitrans and EQT Energy, LLC (EQT Energy, EQT’s gas
marketing affiliate), leased an additional 8.2 Bcf of contractual storage
capacity and 118,834 Dth per day of contractual pipeline capacity from third
parties.  In addition, in 2008, EQT Energy executed a binding precedent agreement with
Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company (TGP), a wholly owned subsidiary of El Paso
Corporation, for a 15-year term that awarded the Company capacity in TGP’s
300-Line expansion project.  EQT
Energy’s capacity in the project is expected to be 350,000 Dth per day, giving
EQT access to consumer markets from the Gulf Coast to the Mid-Atlantic and the
Northeast.

 

Distribution  

 

EQT’s regulated natural gas distribution subsidiary, Equitable Gas Company,
LLC (Equitable
Gas, EQT’s local distribution affiliate), distributes and
sells natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers in
southwestern Pennsylvania, West Virginia and eastern Kentucky.  Equitable Gas also operates a small gathering
system in Pennsylvania and provides off-system sales activities which include
the purchase and delivery of gas to customers at mutually agreed-upon points on
facilities not owned by the Company.  

 

The Distribution
segment’s business strategy is to earn an appropriate return on its asset base
through operational efficiency and innovative regulatory mechanisms.  Distribution is focused on enhancing the
value of its existing assets by establishing a reputation for excellent
customer service, effectively managing capital spending, improving the
efficiency of its workforce and continuing to leverage technology throughout
its operations.  In 2009,
Equitable Gas received approval for a base rate increase in Pennsylvania to
recover an increased return on assets placed in service since the previous rate
case and to fully recover costs associated with customer assistance programs.

 

Markets
and Customers

 

Natural Gas Sales:  EQT Production’s produced natural gas is sold
to marketers (including EQT
Energy), utilities and industrial customers located mainly in the Appalachian
area.  No individual
customers accounted for more than 10% of revenues in 2009 or
2007.  Sales to one marketer accounted
for approximately 13% of revenues for EQT Production for the year ended
December 31, 2008.  Natural gas is
a commodity and therefore the Company receives market-based pricing.  The market price for natural gas can be
volatile as evidenced by the high natural gas prices in early through mid 2008
followed by dramatic decreases later in 2008 and in 2009.  The market price for gas located in the
Appalachian Basin is generally higher than the price for gas located in the
Gulf Coast, largely due

 

8












Table of Contents

 

to the differential in the cost to transport gas to customers in the
northeastern United States.  The Company
hedges a portion of its forecasted natural gas production.  The Company’s hedging strategy and
information regarding its derivative instruments is outlined in Item 7A,
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and in Notes 1
and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 

Natural Gas
Gathering: 
EQT Midstream derives gathering revenues from charges to customers for
use of its gathering system in the Appalachian Basin.  The gathering system volumes are transported
to three major interstate pipelines: Columbia Gas Transmission, East Tennessee
Natural Gas Company and Dominion Transmission. 
The gathering system also maintains interconnects with Equitrans.  Maintaining these interconnects provides the
Company with access to geographically diverse markets. 

 

Gathering system transportation volumes for 2009 totaled 161,480 BBtu, of
which approximately 60% related to gathering for EQT Production, 30% related to
third party volumes and 3% related to volumes for other affiliates of the
Company.  The remainder related to
volumes in which interests were sold by the Company but which the Company
continued to operate for a fee.  Revenues
from affiliates accounted for almost 80% of 2009 gathering revenues.    

 

Natural Gas Processing:  The Company processes natural gas in order to
extract heavier liquid hydrocarbons (propane, iso-butane, normal butane and
natural gasoline) from the natural gas stream, primarily from EQT Production’s
produced gas.  NGLs are recovered at
EQT’s Kentucky Hydrocarbon facility and transported to a fractionation plant
owned by a third party for separation into commercial components.  The third party markets these components and
in exchange retains an agreed-upon percentage of NGLs delivered by the
Company.  The Company also has contractual
processing arrangements whereby the Company sells gas to a third party processor
at a weighted average liquids component price. 


 

While natural gas processing produces independent revenues, the
Company’s primary reason for these activities is to comply with the product
quality specifications of the pipelines on which the Company’s produced natural
gas is transported and sold.  As a
result, the Company typically engages in gas processing at locations where its
produced gas would not satisfy the downstream interstate pipeline’s gas quality
specifications.  Without sufficient
processing, the Company’s natural gas production could be interrupted as a
result of an inability to achieve required interstate pipeline
specifications.  Thus, as the Company’s
production continues to grow, access to gas processing capacity must also grow.

 

Natural Gas Transmission and Storage:  Services offered by EQT Energy include
commodity procurement, sales, delivery, risk management and other
services.  These operations are executed
using Company owned and operated or contracted transmission and underground
storage facilities as well as other contractual capacity arrangements with
major pipeline and storage service providers in the eastern United States.  EQT Energy uses leased storage capacity and
firm transportation capacity, including the Company’s Big Sandy Pipeline
capacity, to take advantage of price differentials and arbitrage
opportunities.  EQT Energy also engages
in risk management and energy trading activities for the Company.  The objective of these activities is to limit
the Company’s exposure to shifts in market prices and to optimize the use of
the Company’s assets.  

 

Customers of EQT Midstream’s gas transportation, storage, risk
management and related services are affiliates and third parties in the
northeastern United States, including but not limited to, Dominion Resources,
Inc., Keyspan Corporation, NiSource, Inc., PECO Energy Company and UGI Energy
Services, Inc.  EQT Energy’s commodity
procurement, sales, delivery, risk management and other services are offered to
natural gas producers and energy consumers including large industrial, utility,
commercial and institutional end-users.  

 

Equitrans’ firm transportation contracts expire between 2010 and
2018.  The Company anticipates that the
capacity associated with these expiring contracts will be remarketed or used by
affiliates such that the capacity will remain fully subscribed.  In 2009, approximately 80% of transportation
volumes and approximately 87% of transportation revenues were from affiliates.  

 

Natural
Gas Distribution: The Company’s Distribution segment provides natural
gas distribution services to approximately 275,900 customers, consisting of
257,300 residential customers and 18,600 commercial and

 

9












Table
of Contents

 

industrial customers in southwestern Pennsylvania, municipalities in
northern West Virginia and field line sales, also referred to as farm tap
service, in eastern Kentucky and West Virginia. 
These service areas have a rather static population and economy.  

 

Equitable Gas purchases gas through contracts with various sources
including major and independent producers in the Gulf Coast, local producers in
the Appalachian area and gas marketers (including an affiliate).  The gas purchase contracts contain various
pricing mechanisms, ranging from fixed prices to several different
index-related prices.

 

Because most of its customers use natural gas for heating purposes,
Equitable Gas’ revenues are seasonal, with approximately 74% of calendar year
2009 revenues occurring during the winter heating season (the months of
January, February, March, November and December).  Significant quantities of purchased natural
gas are placed in underground storage inventory during the off-peak season to
accommodate higher demand during the winter heating season.   

 

Competition

 

Natural
gas producers compete in the acquisition of properties, the search for and
development of reserves, the production and sale of natural gas and the
securing of labor and equipment required to conduct operations.  Competitors include major oil and gas
companies, other independent oil and gas companies and individual producers and
operators.  Key competitors for new
gathering and processing systems include independent gas gatherers and
integrated energy companies.  Natural gas
marketing activities compete with numerous other companies offering the same
services.  Some of these competitors are
affiliates of companies with extensive pipeline systems that are used for
transportation from producers to end-users. 
The Company’s distribution operations face competition from other local
distribution companies, alternative fuels and reduced usage among customers as
a result of conservation.

 

Regulation 

 

EQT Production’s natural gas operations are subject to various federal,
state, and local laws and regulations, including regulations related to the
location of wells; drilling, stimulating and casing of wells; water withdrawal
and disbursement for well stimulation purposes; well production; spill
prevention plans; the use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and
materials incidental to oil and gas operations; surface usage and the
reclamation of properties upon which wells or other facilities have been
located; the calculation and disbursement of royalty payments and taxes; the
plugging and abandoning of wells; and the gathering of production in certain
circumstances.  These regulations may
increase the costs of drilling.

 

EQT Production’s operations are also subject to conservation
regulations, including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units
or field rule units; the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit; and the
unitization or pooling of natural gas properties.  EQT Production’s operating states allow in
certain circumstances the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate
development and exploration, while in other circumstances it is necessary to
rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases which may make it more difficult
to develop natural gas properties.  In
addition, state conservation laws generally limit the venting or flaring of
natural gas.  The effect of these
regulations is to limit the amounts of natural gas we produce from our wells
and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we drill.

 

EQT Midstream has both regulated and non-regulated
operations.  The regulated activities
consist of federally-regulated transmission and storage operations and certain
state-regulated gathering operations. 
The non-regulated activities include certain gathering and
transportation operations, processing of NGLs and risk management
activities.  Equitrans’ rates and
operations are subject to regulation by the FERC.  The 2006 FERC rate case settlement allowed Equitrans,
among other things, to institute an annual surcharge for the tracking and
recovery of all costs (operations, maintenance and return on invested capital)
incurred on and after September 1, 2005, related to Equitrans’ Pipeline Safety
Program under the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002.  The Company has continued to utilize the
surcharge mechanism each year to recover costs incurred in connection with its
Pipeline Safety Program.  Under the terms
of the 2006 settlement, Equitrans was prohibited from seeking new base

 

10












Table of Contents

 

transmission and
storage rates prior to June 1, 2009 and is prohibited from seeking new
gathering base rates prior to November 1, 2010. 
In 2008, the Big Sandy Pipeline was placed in service in eastern
Kentucky.  

 

Equitable Gas’ distribution rates, terms of service and contracts with
affiliates are subject to comprehensive regulation by the PA PUC and the WV
PSC.  In addition, the issuance of securities by Equitable
Gas is subject to regulation by the PA PUC.  The field line sales rates in Kentucky are
subject to rate regulation by the Kentucky Public Service Commission.  

 

Equitable Gas must usually seek the approval of one or more of its
regulators prior to changing its rates. 
Currently, Equitable Gas passes through to its regulated customers the
cost of its purchased gas and transportation activities.  Equitable Gas is allowed to recover a return
in addition to the costs of its distribution and gathering delivery
activities.  However, Equitable Gas’
regulators do not guarantee recovery and may require that certain costs of
operation be recovered over an extended term. 
On February 26, 2009, the PA PUC approved a settlement between
Equitable Gas and the active parties to the filing for a base rate case
increase in Pennsylvania.  The Company implemented the new base rates upon
approval of the settlement.  On October 29, 2009, Equitable Gas filed a request
with the WV PSC to increase the rates it charges its customers for delivery of
natural gas in West Virginia.  It is the first delivery rate increase that
Equitable Gas has requested in West Virginia since 1991.  The rate case proceedings are expected to be
resolved no later than the third quarter of 2010.  

 

Pennsylvania law requires that local distribution companies develop and
implement programs to assist low-income customers with paying their gas bills.
The costs of these programs are recovered through rates charged to other
residential customers.  Equitable Gas has
several such programs, including the customer assistance program (CAP).  Effective with the approval of the
Pennsylvania rate case settlement, the Company received approval to implement
an increased CAP surcharge, for recovery of its costs for assisting low-income
customers with paying their gas bills and will receive an annual reconciliation of CAP
costs to ensure complete recovery of these costs.  

 

Equitable Gas continues to work with regulators to implement
alternative cost recovery programs. 
Equitable Gas’ tariffs for commercial and industrial customers allow for
negotiated rates in limited circumstances. 


 

Regulators periodically audit the Company’s compliance with applicable
regulatory requirements.  The Company is
not aware of any significant non-compliance as a result of any completed
audits. 

 

Employees

 

The Company and
its subsidiaries had approximately 1,800 employees at the end of 2009.

 

Holding Company Reorganization

 

On June 30, 2008, the former Equitable Resources, Inc. (Old EQT)
entered into and completed an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Plan) under
which Old EQT reorganized into a holding company structure such that a newly
formed Pennsylvania corporation, also named Equitable Resources, Inc. (New
EQT), became the publicly traded holding company of Old EQT and its
subsidiaries.  The primary purpose of
this reorganization (the Reorganization) was to separate Old EQT’s
state-regulated distribution operations into a new subsidiary in order to
better segregate its regulated and unregulated businesses and improve overall
financing flexibility.  To effect the
Reorganization, Old EQT formed New EQT, a wholly-owned subsidiary, and New EQT,
in turn, formed EGC Merger Co., a Pennsylvania corporation owned solely by New
EQT (MergerSub).  Under the Plan,
MergerSub merged with and into Old EQT with Old EQT surviving (the
Merger).  The Merger resulted in Old EQT
becoming a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of New EQT.  New EQT changed its name to EQT Corporation
effective February 9, 2009.  Throughout this Annual Report, references
to EQT, EQT Corporation and the Company refer collectively to New EQT and its
consolidated subsidiaries.

 

Availability of Reports

 

The Company makes certain filings with the SEC,
including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports,
available free of charge through its website, http://www.eqt.com, as soon as
reasonably practicable after the date they are filed with,

 

11












Table of Contents

 

or furnished to,
the SEC.  The filings are also available
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. 
Also, these filings are available on the internet at http://www.sec.gov.  The Company’s annual reports to shareholders,
press releases and recent analyst presentations are also available on the
Company’s website.   

 

Composition of Segment Operating
Revenues

 

Presented
below are operating revenues as a percentage of total operating revenues for
each class of products and services representing greater than 10% of total
operating revenues during the years 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2009
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  EQT Production:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Natural gas equivalents
  sales
  
  
   
  
  
  24%
  
  
   
  
  
  20%
  
  
   
  
  
  23%
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  EQT Midstream:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Gathering revenue
  
  
   
  
  
  11%
  
  
   
  
  
   7%
  
  
   
  
  
   8%
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Marketed natural gas sales
  
  
   
  
  
   5%
  
  
   
  
  
  12%
  
  
   
  
  
  18%
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Distribution:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential natural gas
  sales
  
  
   
  
  
  26%
  
  
   
  
  
  23%
  
  
   
  
  
  23%
  
  
   
  
 


 

Financial
Information About Segments

 

In
January 2008, the Company announced a change in organizational structure to
better align the Company to execute its growth strategy for development and
infrastructure expansion in the Appalachian Basin.  These changes resulted in changes to the
Company’s reporting segments effective for fiscal year 2008.  The segment disclosures and discussions
contained in this report have been reclassified to reflect all periods
presented under the current organizational structure.  

 

See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information by
business segment including, but not limited to, revenues from external
customers, operating income, and total assets. 

 

Financial
Information About Geographic Areas

 

Substantially all of the Company’s assets and
operations are located in the continental United States.

 

Environmental

 

See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information regarding environmental matters.

 

12











Table of Contents

 

Item
1A.  Risk Factors 

 

Risks Relating to Our Business

 

In addition to the
other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors
should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects.  Please note that additional risks not
presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have
a negative impact on our business and operations.  If any of the events or circumstances
described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results
of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could
decline.

 

Natural gas price volatility may have an adverse effect
on our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and liquidity. 

 

Our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth and liquidity depend
upon the price for natural gas.  The
markets for natural gas are volatile and fluctuations in prices will affect our
financial results.  Natural gas prices
are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which include: weather
conditions; the supply of and demand for natural gas; national and worldwide
economic and political conditions; the price and availability of alternative
fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on, transportation
facilities; and government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas
transportation and price controls.   

 

Lower natural gas prices may result in decreases in the revenue,
margin and cash flow for each of our businesses, a reduction in the
construction of new transportation capacity and downward adjustments to the
value of our estimated proved reserves which may cause us to incur non-cash
charges to earnings.  A reduction in cash flow will reduce our funds available for capital
expenditures and, correspondingly, our opportunities for growth.  We are
also exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties in the
event that changes, positive or negative, in natural gas prices result in
derivative contracts with a positive fair value.  

 

Increases in natural gas prices may be accompanied by or result in
increased well drilling costs, increased deferral of purchased gas costs for
our distribution operations, increased production taxes, increased lease
operating expenses, increased exposure to credit losses resulting from
potential increases in uncollectible accounts receivable from our distribution
customers, increased volatility in seasonal gas price spreads for our storage
assets and increased customer conservation or conversion to alternative
fuels.  Significant price increases
subject us to margin calls on our commodity price derivative contracts (hedging
arrangements, including futures contracts, swap, collar and option agreements
and exchange traded instruments) which would potentially require us to post
significant amounts of cash collateral with our hedge counterparties. The cash
collateral, which is interest-bearing, provided to our hedge counterparties is
returned to us in whole or in part upon a reduction in forward market
prices, depending on the amount of such reduction, or in whole upon settlement
of the related hedged transaction.  In
addition, to the extent we have hedged our current production at prices below
the current market price, we are unable to benefit fully from an increase in
the price of natural gas. 

 

Our need to comply with comprehensive, complex and
sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase our costs and limit
our revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings. 

 

Our operations are
regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels.  Laws, regulations and other legal
requirements have increased the cost to plan, design, drill, install, operate
and abandon wells, gathering systems, pipelines and distribution systems.  Environment,
health and safety legal requirements govern discharges of substances into the
air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes,
the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant
and wildlife protection, restoration of drilling properties after drilling is
completed, pipeline safety and work practices related to employee health and
safety.  Compliance with the laws,
regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our businesses may be
costly. These requirements could subject us to liability for personal
injuries, property damage and other damages. 
Our failure to comply with the laws, regulations and other legal
requirements applicable to our businesses, even if as a result of factors
beyond our control, may result in the suspension or termination of our
operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties and
damages.   

 

13












Table of Contents

 

The rates charged to customers by our gathering, transportation, storage
and distribution businesses are, in many cases, subject to state or federal regulation.  The agencies that regulate our rates
may prohibit us from realizing a level of return which we believe is
appropriate.  These restrictions
may take the form of imputed revenue credits, cost disallowances
(including purchased gas cost recoveries) and/or expense deferrals.  Additionally, we may be required to
provide additional assistance to low income residential customers to help pay
their bills without the ability to recover some or all of the additional
assistance in rates.

 

Laws, regulations and other legal requirements are constantly changing
and implementation of compliant processes in response to such changes could be
costly and time consuming.  For instance,
the U.S. Congress and
various states have been evaluating climate-related legislation and other
regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases,
including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide (a
byproduct of burning natural gas). Such restrictions may result in additional
compliance obligations with respect to, or taxes on, and the release, capture
and use of greenhouse gases that could have an adverse effect on our
operations. Changes to well fracturing or
waste water regulations or existing legal requirements could also have a
significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position.  

 

The rates of federal, state and local taxes applicable to the industries
in which we operate, including production taxes paid by EQT Production, which
often fluctuate, could be increased by the various taxing authorities.  In addition, the tax laws, rules and
regulations that affect our business, such as the imposition of a new severance
tax (a tax on the extraction of natural resources) in states in which we
produce gas, could change. Any such increase or change could adversely impact
our cash flows and profitability.

 

Strategic
determinations regarding the allocation of capital and other resources in the
current economic environment are challenging and our failure to appropriately
allocate capital and resources among our businesses may adversely affect our
financial condition and reduce our growth rate. 


 

In developing our
2010 business plan, we considered allocating capital and other resources to
various aspects of our businesses including well-development (primarily
drilling), reserve acquisitions, exploratory activity, midstream
infrastructure, distribution infrastructure, corporate items and other
alternatives.  We also considered our
likely sources of capital. 
Notwithstanding the determinations made in the development of our 2010
plan, business opportunities not previously identified periodically come to our
attention, including possible acquisitions and dispositions. If we don’t
optimize our capital investment and capital raising opportunities and the use
of our other resources, our financial condition and growth rate may be
adversely affected. 

 

Global financial
challenges may adversely affect our business and financial condition in ways
that we currently cannot predict. 
Downgrades to our credit ratings could increase our costs of borrowing
adversely affecting our business, results of operations and liquidity.

 

We rely upon access to both short-term bank
and money markets and longer-term capital markets as sources of liquidity for
any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from operations. 
Challenges in the global financial system, including the capital markets, may
adversely affect our business and our financial condition and we may face
challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve.  Our ability to access the capital markets may
be restricted at a time when we desire, or need, to raise capital, which could
have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business
conditions. The economic situation could adversely affect the collectability of
our trade receivables.  Market conditions
could cause our commodity hedging counterparties to be unable to perform their
obligations or to seek bankruptcy protection. 
Continuing challenges in the economy could lead to reduced demand for
natural gas which could have a negative impact on our revenues and our credit
ratings.   

 

Any downgrade of
our credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect our
ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities or
other borrowing arrangements, which could adversely affect our business,
results of operations and liquidity.  We
cannot be sure that our current ratings will remain in effect for any given
period of time or that our rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by
a rating agency.  An increase in the level of our indebtedness in the
future may result in a downgrade in the ratings that are assigned to our
debt.  Any downgrade in our ratings could result in an increase in our
borrowing costs, which would diminish financial results.

 

14












Table of Contents

 

Our
failure to develop or obtain, and maintain, the necessary infrastructure to
successfully deliver gas to market may adversely affect our earnings, cash
flows and results of operations.  

 

Our delivery of gas depends upon the availability of adequate
transportation infrastructure.  The
Company’s investment in midstream infrastructure  is intended to address a
lack of capacity on, and access to, existing gathering and transportation
pipelines as well as processing adjacent to and curtailments on such pipelines.  The lack of midstream infrastructure is
particularly acute in the geographic area in which the Marcellus shale is being
developed.  Our infrastructure
development and maintenance programs can involve significant risks, including
those related to timing, cost overruns and operational efficiency, and these
risks can be affected by the availability of capital, materials, and qualified
contractors and work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price
volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology, compliance by third
parties with their contractual obligations to us and other factors.  We also deliver to and are served by third
party gas gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities which
are limited in number and geographically concentrated.  An extended interruption of access to or
service from these facilities could result in adverse consequences to us.  In addition, some of our third party
contracts may involve significant financial commitments on our part and may make
us dependent upon others to get our produced natural gas to market.  

 

We are
subject to risks associated with the operation of our wells, pipelines and
facilities. 

 

Our business
operations are subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally
incidental to the production, transportation, storage and distribution of
natural gas.  These risks could result in
substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to
and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental
damage.  As a result, we are sometimes a
defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of
business.  There can be no assurance that
the insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability for such losses will
be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential
future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of
insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or to cover all
risks.

 

The
amount and timing of actual future gas production is difficult to predict and
may vary significantly from our estimates which may reduce our earnings.

 

Our future success
depends upon our ability to develop additional gas reserves that are
economically recoverable and to optimize existing well production, and our
failure to do so may reduce our earnings. 
Our drilling and subsequent maintenance of wells can involve significant
risks, including those related to timing, cost overruns and operational
efficiency, and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital,
leases, rigs and a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas
price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology and other
factors.  Drilling for natural gas can be
unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not
produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. 
Additionally, a failure to effectively and efficiently operate existing
wells may cause production volumes to fall short of our projections.  Without continued successful development or
acquisition activities, together with effective operation of existing wells,
our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves
being depleted by production.

 

Our failure to assess production opportunities based on
market conditions could negatively impact our long-term growth prospects for
our production business.  

 

Our goal of
sustaining long-term growth for our production business is contingent upon our
ability to identify production opportunities based on market conditions.  Our decision to drill a prospect is subject
to a number of factors which may alter our drilling schedule or our plans to
drill at all. We may have difficulty drilling all of the wells before the lease
term expires which could result in the loss of certain leasehold rights or we
could drill wells in locations where we do not have the necessary
infrastructure to deliver the gas to market. 
Successfully identifying production opportunities involves a high degree
of business experience, knowledge and careful evaluation of potential
opportunities, along with subjective judgments and assumptions which may prove
to be incorrect.  Our recent addition of
exploration projects increases the risks inherent in our natural gas
activities.  Specifically, seismic data
is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of
natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our operations.
Because we have a limited operating history in certain exploratory areas, our 

 

15












Table of Contents

 

future
operating results are difficult to forecast, and our failure to sustain high
growth rates in the future could adversely affect the market price of our
common stock.

 

See Item 7A, “Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for further discussion regarding
the Company’s exposure to market risks, including the risks associated with our
use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices.

 

Item 1B