Item 1A.
Risk Factors 

In addition to the matters set forth under "Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" included directly prior to Item 1, Business, above, we are subject to a variety of significant risks.  Our susceptibility to certain risks, including those discussed in detail below, could exacerbate other risks.  These risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our risk profile.

The actions of regulators can significantly affect our earnings, liquidity and business activities.

The rates that our Regulated companies charge their respective retail and wholesale customers are determined by their state utility commissions and by FERC.  These commissions also regulate the companies’ accounting, operations, the issuance of certain securities and certain other matters.  FERC also regulates their transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at wholesale, accounting, issuance of certain securities and certain other matters.  The commissions’ policies and regulatory actions could have a material impact on the Regulated companies’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Our transmission, distribution and generation systems may not operate as expected, and could require unplanned expenditures, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Our ability to properly operate of our transmission, distribution and generation systems is critical to the financial performance of our business.  Our transmission, distribution and generation businesses face several operational risks, including the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes (especially due to age); labor disputes; disruptions in the delivery of electricity, including impacts on us or our customers; increased capital expenditure requirements, including those due to environmental regulation; information security risk, such as a breach of our systems on which sensitive utility customer data and account information are stored; catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, or other similar occurrences; and other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities.  The failure of our transmission, distributions and generation systems to operate as planned 
may result in increased capital investments, reduced earnings or unplanned increases in operation and maintenance costs.  At PSNH, outages at generating stations may be deemed imprudent by state regulators resulting in disallowance of replacement power costs. Such costs that are not recoverable from our customers would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Limits on our access to and increases in the cost of capital may adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan.

We use short-term debt and the long-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not obtained from our operating cash flow.  If access to these sources of liquidity becomes constrained, our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected.  In addition, higher interest rates would increase our cost of borrowing, which could adversely impact our results of operations.  A downgrade of our credit ratings or events beyond our control, such as a disruption in global capital and credit markets, could increase our cost of borrowing and cost of capital or restrict our ability to access the capital markets and negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses.

Our counterparties may not meet their obligations to us.

We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, or have contracted to supply us with energy, coal, or other commodities or services, or who work with us as strategic partners, including on significant capital projects, will not be able to perform their obligations or, with respect to our credit facilities, fail to honor their commitments.  Should any of these counterparties fail to perform their obligations, we might be forced to replace the underlying commitment at higher market prices and/or have to delay the completion of a capital project.  Should any lenders under our credit facilities fail to perform, the level of borrowing capacity under those arrangements could decrease.  In any such events, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected.



14

Changes in regulatory or legislative policy and/or regulatory decisions, difficulties in obtaining siting, design or other approvals, global demand for critical resources, environmental or other concerns, or construction of new generation may delay completion of or displace our planned transmission projects or adversely affect our ability to recover our investments or result in lower than expected rates of return.

Our transmission construction plans could be affected by new legislation, regulations or judicial or regulatory interpretations of applicable law or regulations or regulatory decisions, delays in obtaining approvals or difficulty in obtaining critical resources required for construction.  Any of such events could cause delays in our construction schedule adversely affecting our ability to achieve forecasted earnings.

The regulatory approval process for our transmission projects requires extensive permitting, design and technical activities.  Various factors could result in increased costs and delay construction schedules.  These include environmental and community concerns and design and siting issues.  Recoverability of all such investments in rates may be subject to prudence review at the FERC.  While we believe that all such costs have been and will be prudently incurred, we cannot predict the outcome of future reviews should they occur.

In addition, our transmission projects may be delayed or displaced by new generation facilities, which could result in reduced transmission capital investments, reduced earnings, and limited future growth prospects.

Many of our transmission projects are expected to help alleviate identified reliability issues and reduce customers' costs.  However, if, due to further regulatory or other delays, the in-service date for one or more of these projects is delayed, there may be increased risk of failures in the electricity transmission system and supply interruptions or blackouts, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings.

The FERC has followed a policy of providing incentives designed to encourage the construction of new transmission facilities, including higher returns on equity and allowing facilities under construction to be placed in rate base. Our projected earnings and growth could be adversely affected were FERC to reduce these incentives in the future below the level presently anticipated.

Increases in electric and gas prices and/or a weak economy, can lead to changes in legislative and regulatory policy promoting energy efficiency, conservation, and self-generation and/or a reduction in our customers’ ability to pay their bills, which may adversely impact our business.

Energy consumption is significantly impacted by the general level of economic activity and cost of energy supply.  Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically can lead to the development of legislative and regulatory policy designed to promote reductions in energy consumption and increased energy efficiency and self-generation by customers.  This focus on conservation, energy efficiency and self-generation may result in a decline in electricity and gas sales in our service territories.  If any such declines were to occur without corresponding adjustments in rates, then our revenues would be reduced and our future growth prospects would be limited. 

In addition, a period of prolonged economic weakness could impact customers’ ability to pay bills in a timely manner and increase customer bankruptcies, which may lead to increased bad debt expenses or other adverse effects on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Connecticut, New Hampshire and Massachusetts have each investigated revenue decoupling as a mechanism to align the interests of customers and utilities relative to conservation.  In Connecticut, the DPUC authorized decoupling through a rate design that is intended to recover greater distribution revenue through fixed charges, and proportionately less distribution revenue through usage-based charges.  In New Hampshire, the NHPUC conducted a decoupling docket and determined that utilities were free to propose decoupling in the context of a rate case and demonstrate the effect decoupling would have on its risk profile and ROE.  PSNH has not yet commenced such a proceeding.  In Massachusetts, the DPU has required WMECO to adopt full decoupling in its January 31, 2011 rate decision.  At this time it is uncertain what impact these decoupling mechanisms will have on our companies. 

As a way to promote self-generation and reduce energy costs, Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire have taken a greater interest in allowing customers to receive credit for generation produced at a customer-owned generating facility that exceeds their energy needs.  In Massachusetts, in accordance with the Green Communities Act, the DPU adopted rules and regulations concerning net metering that will have this effect. Such rules provide a cost recovery mechanism for affected utilities to recover lost revenues.  The Massachusetts DPU is expected to hold further proceedings to address net metering in early 2011.  In Connecticut, the DPUC opened a docket to review existing state statutes and determine what limitations currently exist in state law concerning net metering.  In addition, any legislation in Connecticut to promote self-generation and net metering could impact CL&P’s financial position, results
 of operations or cash flows.  In New Hampshire, new legislation dramatically changed the net metering rules in 2010.  This new legislation is meant to encourage net metering from customers with small generators and also provides PSNH a cost recovery mechanism for lost distribution revenue.   

Changes in regulatory and/or legislative policy could negatively impact regional transmission cost allocation rules.

The existing FERC-approved New England transmission tariff allocates the costs of transmission facilities that provide regional benefits to all customers of participating transmission-owning utilities.  As new investment in regional transmission infrastructure occurs in any one state, its cost is shared across New England in accordance with relative benefits received.  This regional cost allocation is set forth in the Transmission Operating Agreement signed by all of the New England transmission owning utilities.  Effective February 1, 2010, this agreement can be modified with the approval of a majority of the transmission owning utilities and FERC.  In addition, other parties, such as state regulators, may seek certain changes to the regional cost allocation formula, which could have adverse effects on the 


15

rates our distribution companies charge their retail customers.  FERC is also considering policies to encourage the construction of transmission for renewable generation that could have the effect of imposing costs of inter-regional investment on New England customers.

Changes in regulatory or legislative policy or unfavorable outcomes in regulatory proceedings could jeopardize our full and/or timely recovery of costs incurred by our regulated distribution and generation businesses.

Under state law, our Regulated companies are entitled to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their reasonable operating and capital costs, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests.  Each of these companies prepares and submits periodic rate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions for review and approval.  There is no assurance that these state commissions will approve the recovery of all such costs incurred by our Regulated companies, such as for construction, operation and maintenance, as well as a return on investment on their respective regulated assets.  Increases in these costs, coupled with increases in fuel and energy prices could lead to consumer or regulatory resistance to the timely recovery of such costs, thereby adversely affecting our financial position, results of operations or cash
 flows.  Additionally, state legislators may enact laws that significantly impact our Regulated companies’ revenues, including by mandating electric or gas rate relief and/or by requiring surcharges to customer bills to support state programs not related to the utilities or energy policy.  Such increases could pressure overall rates to our customers and our routine requests to regulators for rate relief.

In addition, CL&P and WMECO procure energy for a substantial portion of their customers’ needs via requests for proposal on an annual, semi-annual or quarterly basis.  CL&P and WMECO receive approval to recover the costs of these contracts from the DPUC and DPU, respectively.  While both regulatory agencies have consistently approved the solicitation processes, results and recovery of costs, management cannot predict the outcome of future solicitation efforts or the regulatory proceedings related thereto.

PSNH meets most of its energy requirements through its own generation resources and fixed-price forward purchase contracts.  PSNH’s remaining energy needs are met primarily through spot market purchases.  Unplanned forced outages of its generating plants could increase the level of energy purchases needed by PSNH and therefore increase the market risk associated with procuring the energy to meet its requirements.  PSNH recovers these costs through its ES rate, subject to a prudence review by the NHPUC.  We cannot predict the outcome of future regulatory proceedings related to recovery of these costs.

Migration of customers from PSNH energy service to competitive energy suppliers could increase the cost to the remaining customers of energy produced by PSNH generation assets and decrease our revenues.

PSNH’s ES rates have been higher than competitive energy prices offered to some customers in recent years, primarily due to lower natural gas prices.  As a result, by the end of 2010, approximately 2 percent of PSNH’s retail customers (representing approximately 32 percent of load), mostly large commercial and industrial customers, were buying their energy from competitive suppliers rather than from PSNH.  The remaining retail customers are experiencing an increase in the cost of energy service supplied by PSNH by 5 percent to 7 percent due to migration of large commercial and industrial customers and the lower base in which to recover PSNH's fixed generation costs.  This increase may in turn cause further migration and further increasing of PSNH energy service rates.  This trend could lead to PSNH continuing to lose retail customers and increasing the burden of supporting the cost of its generation faciliti
es on remaining customers and being unable to support the cost of its generation facilities through an ES rate.  

The NHPUC is examining this issue in a proceeding in which hearings ended on December 1, 2010.  PSNH has suggested transferring some fixed costs of the generation facilities into a nonbypassable charge while intervening competitive suppliers have proposed taking over the purchased power portion of the load not supplied by PSNH’s generation.  Others have also proposed having PSNH bid all of its generation facilities into the market while an RFP process supplies all of the power for PSNH’s energy service.  The NHPUC is considering further proceedings to explore these and other issues as well as the NHPUC authority to require PSNH to divest its generation facilities.  It is not known what the results of such a proceeding would be, what PSNH may realize as a result of the sale or retirement of one or more of its generation facilities, or to what extent or manner the NHPUC would provide for recovery of any invest
ment in its generation facilities.  

Judicial or regulatory proceedings or changes in regulatory or legislative policy could jeopardize completion of, or full recovery of costs incurred by PSNH in constructing, the Clean Air Project.

Pursuant to New Hampshire law, PSNH is building the Clean Air Project at its Merrimack Station in Bow, New Hampshire.  Several parties initiated legal proceedings challenging the project.  These proceedings, or new legislation, regulations or judicial or regulatory interpretations of applicable law or regulations could result in increased costs to the project.

In addition, PSNH’s investment in the project after it is completed is subject to prudence review by the NHPUC at the time the project is placed in service.  A material prudence disallowance could adversely affect PSNH’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  While we believe we have prudently incurred all expenditures to date, we cannot predict the outcome of any prudency reviews should they occur.  Our projected earnings and growth could be adversely affected were the NHPUC to deny recovery of some or all of PSNH’s investment in the project.

The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our employees.  Retaining key employees and maintaining the ability to attract new employees are important to both our operational and financial performance.  We cannot guarantee that any member of our 


16

management or any key employee at the NU parent or subsidiary level will continue to serve in any capacity for any particular period of time.  In addition, a significant portion of our workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five to ten years.  Such highly skilled individuals cannot be quickly replaced due to the technically complex work they perform.  We have developed strategic workforce plans to identify key functions and proactively implement plans to assure a ready and qualified workforce, but cannot predict the impact of these plans on our ability to hire and retain key employees.

Grid disturbances, severe weather, or acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact our business.

Because our generation and transmission systems are part of an interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of possible loss of business continuity due to a disruption or black-out caused by an event (severe storm, generator or transmission facility outage, solar storm activity or terrorist action) on an interconnected system or the actions of another utility.  In addition, we are subject to the risk that acts of war or terrorism, including cyber-terrorism could negatively impact the operation of our system.  Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Severe weather, such as ice and snow storms, hurricanes and other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage, which may require us to incur additional costs that may not be recoverable from customers.  The cost of repairing damage to our operating subsidiaries' facilities and the potential disruption of their operations due to storms, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could be substantial, particularly as customers demand better and quicker response times to outages.  The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period, such as during the hot summer months.

Market performance or changes in assumptions could require us to make significant contributions to our pension and other post-employment benefit plans.

We provide a defined benefit pension plan and other post-retirement benefits for a substantial number of employees, former employees and retirees.  Our future pension obligations, costs and liabilities are highly dependent on a variety of factors beyond our control.  These factors include estimated investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit changes, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants.  If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our future costs could increase significantly.  In 2008 and 2009, due to the financial crisis, the value of our pension assets declined.  As a result, we made a contribution of $45 million in 2010 and expect to make an approximate $145 million contribution in 2011.  In addition, various factors, including underperformance of plan investments and changes in law or regulation, could increase the amount of contributions required to fund o
ur pension plan in the future.  Additional large funding requirements, when combined with the financing requirements of our construction program, could impact the timing and amount of future equity and debt financings and negatively affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Costs of compliance with environmental regulations, including climate change legislation, may increase and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Our subsidiaries' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations that govern, among other things, air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste.  Compliance with these requirements requires us to incur significant costs relating to environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance and upgrading of facilities, remediation and permitting.  The costs of compliance with existing legal requirements or legal requirements not yet adopted may increase in the future.  An increase in such costs, unless promptly recovered, could have an adverse impact on our business and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In addition, global climate change issues have received an increased focus from federal and state governments, which could potentially lead to additional rules and regulations that impact how we operate our business, both in terms of the power plants we own and operate as well as general utility operations.  Although we would expect that any costs of these rules and regulations would be recovered from customers, their impact on energy use by customers and the ultimate impact on our business would be dependent upon the specific rules and regulations adopted and cannot be determined at this time.  The impact of these additional costs to customers could lead to a further reduction in energy consumption resulting in a decline in electricity and gas sales in our service territories, which would have an adverse impact on our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Any failure by us to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if due to factors beyond our control, or reinterpretations of existing requirements, could also increase costs.  Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us.  Revised or additional laws could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable in distribution company rates.  The cost impact of any such laws, rules or regulations would be dependent upon the specific requirements adopted and cannot be determined at this time.  For further information, see Item 1, Business - "Other Regulatory and Environmental Matters," in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

As a holding company with no revenue-generating operations, NU parent is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the Regulated companies, its bank facility, and its ability to access the long-term debt and equity capital markets.

NU parent is a holding company and as such, has no revenue-generating operations of its own.  Its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with the debt service obligations on its debt and to pay dividends on its common shares is largely dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to or to repay borrowings from NU parent; and/or NU parent’s ability to access its credit 


17

facility or the long-term debt and equity capital markets.  Prior to funding NU parent, the Regulated companies have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, their operating expenses, debt service, preferred dividends (in the case of CL&P) and obligations to trade creditors.  Additionally, the Regulated companies could retain their free cash flow to fund their capital expenditures in lieu of receiving equity contributions from NU parent.  Should the Regulated companies not be able to pay dividends to or repay funds due to NU parent or if NU parent cannot access its bank facilities or the long-term debt and equity capital markets, NU parent’s ability to pay interest, dividends and its own debt obligations would be restricted.

Risks Related to the Proposed Merger with NSTAR

We may be unable to satisfy the conditions or obtain the approvals required to complete the merger or such approvals may contain material restrictions or conditions.

The merger is subject to approval by the shareholders of both NU and NSTAR and numerous other conditions, including the approval of various government agencies.  Governmental agencies may not approve the merger or such approvals may impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms of the merger, including restrictions on the business, operations or financial performance of the combined company, which could be adverse to the company's interests.  These conditions or changes could also delay or increase the cost of the merger or limit the net income or financial prospects of the combined company.

We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending.

The work required to complete the merger may place a significant burden on management and internal resources.  Management's attention and other company resources may be focused on the merger instead of on day-to-day management activities, including pursuing other opportunities beneficial to NU.  In addition, while the merger is pending our business operations are restricted by the Agreement and Plan of merger to ordinary course of business activities consistent with past practice, which may cause us to forgo otherwise beneficial business opportunities.

We may lose management personnel and other key employees and be unable to attract and retain such personnel and employees.

Uncertainties about the effect of the merger on management personnel and employees may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, which could affect our financial performance.

The merger may not be completed, which may have an adverse effect on our share price and future business and financial results and we could face litigation concerning the merger, whether or not the merger is consummated. 

Failure to complete the merger could negatively affect NU's share price, as well as our future business and financial results.  In addition, purported class actions have been brought against us, NSTAR and others on behalf of holders of NSTAR common shares.  If these actions or similar actions that may be brought are successful, the costs of completing the merger could increase, or the merger could be delayed or prevented.  We cannot make any assurances that we will succeed in any litigation brought in connection with the merger.  See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of pending litigation related to the merger.  

If the merger is not completed for certain reasons specified in the merger agreement, we may be required to pay NSTAR a termination fee of $135 million plus up to $35 million of certain expenses incurred by NSTAR.  In addition, we must pay our own costs related to the merger including, among others, legal, accounting, advisory, financing and filing fees and printing costs, whether the merger is completed or not.  Further, if the merger is not completed, we could be subject to litigation related to the failure to complete the merger or other factors, which may adversely affect our business, financial results and share price. 

If completed, the merger may not achieve its intended results.

We entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits. If the merger is completed, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits will be subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether our businesses can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner.  Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could adversely affect our business, financial results and share price.   


Item 1B