Item 1A.
Risk Factors

NU is subject to a variety of significant risks in addition to the matters set forth under "Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" in Item 1, "Business," above.  NU's susceptibility to certain risks, including those discussed in detail below, could exacerbate other risks.  These risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating NU's  risk profile.

Risks Related to the Exit from the Competitive Businesses

On March 9, 2005, NU announced the decision to exit its wholesale marketing and energy services businesses, and on November 7, 2005, NU announced the decision to exit its retail marketing and competitive generation businesses, which constituted the remainder of NU's competitive business.  NU has disposed of a substantial part of its wholesale business, has sold two of its six services businesses and is in the process of selling the remainder, and is actively marketing its retail marketing business and competitive generation assets.

As of December 31, 2005, Select Energy had reached agreements to terminate or assign an estimated net 7.4 million megawatt-hours of wholesale electric sales obligations.  As of January 1, 2006, Select Energy still has an estimated 16.4 million megawatt-hours of wholesale electric sales obligations through the end of the last such obligation in 2013, all but 2.6 million megawatt-hours of which has been sourced.  However, sales volumes will likely be affected by weather, economic factors, and each contract's relative price compared with alternative sources of electricity.

The wholesale marketing business, until fully exited, will continue to present financial risk to NU from a variety of perspectives. These include earnings volatility around Select Energy's portfolio of contracts, which will be accounted for almost entirely on a mark-to-market basis until settled or exited.  NU recorded after tax losses associated with this portfolio during 2005 of $278.9 million, including $39.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.  NU may incur additional material charges to divest the remainder of the portfolio.  Two large remaining wholesale contracts expiring in 2007 and 2013, respectively, pose an additional level of risk due to the possibility that Select Energy may have to serve much higher levels of load than were previously anticipated.  NU recorded  pre-tax charges totaling approximately $53 million in the fourth quarter for changes in the estimates of the load forecasts related to these contracts.

In addition, the cost to exit several wholesale contracts was significantly more than Select Energy's mark-to-market, which was somewhat offset by several buyouts of municipal contracts at prices better than Select Energy's marks.  During the third quarter of 2005, Select Energy entered into a transaction under which it agreed to pay approximately $20 million in excess of its mark-to-market price to assign a number of its long-dated New England contracts to a third party.  In December 2005, Select Energy transferred the balance of its sales and purchase obligations in New England to a third party and  recognized a pre-tax loss in the fourth quarter of 2005 of $11.8 million compared to the September 30, 2005 mark-to-market.  Select Energy continues to have discussions regarding settlement of its remaining wholesale portfolio obligations.  Future contract settlements could also be at amounts higher than NU's mark-to-market amounts.  

The financial reliability of Select Energy's counterparties and its ability to manage its wholesale marketing portfolio of contracts and assets within acceptable risk parameters will be of material importance to Select Energy until these contracts are divested.  The net fair value position of the wholesale portfolio at December 31, 2005 was a net liability of $230.1 million, all which has been reflected in 2005 results.

NU's decision to exit the retail marketing and generation businesses could have material negative financial implications in 2006, depending on the outcome of a number of factors, including the resolution of certain accounting issues related to impairment of assets, recognition of closure or exit costs, recognition of losses in settling energy contracts, recognition of losses of the portfolio of retail contracts, and how the disposition of those businesses is accomplished. 

Exiting from Select Energy's retail and remaining wholesale obligations could have an adverse impact on NU's liquidity, although any negative effect will be mitigated by the sale of the competitive generating assets.  The book value of NU's competitive generating assets was approximately $825 million at December 31, 2005.  NU's equity investment in its combined wholesale, retail and generation businesses is approximately $57 million at December 31, 2005.  Should NU fail to realize this equity amount on sale of these businesses after payment or assumption of all related debt, NU could incur further charges.  

To date, most of Select Energy's contract terminations have been on terms where Select Energy settled with its counterparty for a sum of money and obtained a full release from further liability on the contract.  One significant contract settlement was, and future contract terminations may be, negotiated on terms whereby Select Energy's obligations are assigned or transferred to a credit-worthy third party, but a release from Select Energy's customer is not obtained.  In such circumstances, Select Energy or another NU company will be liable to the customer should the third party default.  Any such contingent liabilities could remain open for extended periods of time.
 
NU currently expects, but cannot assure, that it will achieve the complete exit from its competitive businesses by the end of 2006.




Risks Related to NU Enterprises’ Wholesale and Retail Marketing and Competitive Generation Businesses

A significant portion of Select Energy's competitive energy marketing activities has been providing electricity to full requirements customers, which are primarily regulated local distribution companies (LDC) and commercial and industrial retail customers.  Under the terms of full requirements contracts, Select Energy is required to provide a percentage of the LDC's electricity requirements at all times.  The volumes sold under these contracts vary based on the usage of the LDC's retail electric customers, and usage is dependent upon factors outside of Select Energy's control, such as unanticipated migration or inflow of customers.  The varying sales volumes could be different than the supply volumes that Select Energy expected to utilize, either from its owned limited generation or from electricity purchase contracts, to serve the full requirements contracts.  Differences between actual sales volumes and supply volumes can require Select Energy to 
purchase additional electricity or sell excess electricity, both of which are subject to market conditions such as weather, plant availability, transmission congestion, and potentially volatile price fluctuations that can impact prices and, in turn, Select Energy's margins.

Until Select Energy disposes of its retail electric and gas marketing business, it will be subject to a number of ongoing risks which are similar, though of a lesser magnitude, to those of the wholesale marketing business.  Fluctuations in prices, fuel costs, competitive conditions, regulations, weather, transmission costs, lack of market liquidity, plant outages and other factors can all impact the retail business adversely from time to time.  Extreme price volatility in the third quarter was responsible for a decline in new business in both the retail gas and electric sectors, and could impact this segment should price volatility recur.  This factor may affect Select Energy's ability to dispose of this business in accordance with its present expectations. 

The competitive generation business is also subject to certain risks.  The future values of locational installed capacity credits which may become available to the owners of generation in the New England market in the future have not been finally determined and are subject to regulatory decision-making over which NU has no control.  

Risks Related to Liquidity and Collateral Calls 

NU's senior unsecured debt ratings by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's, Inc. are currently Baa2 and BBB-, respectively, with stable outlooks.  Were either of these ratings to decline to non-investment grade level, Select Energy could be asked to provide, as of December 31, 2005, approximately $407 million of collateral or letters of credit to unaffiliated counterparties and $96 million to several independent system operators and unaffiliated local distribution companies and LDCs under agreements largely guaranteed by NU.  In addition, at December 31, 2005, Select Energy could have been requested to provide $12.7 million of collateral under certain contracts which counterparties have not required to date.  While NU's credit facilities are in amounts that would be adequate to meet calls at that level, NU's ability to meet any future calls would depend on its liquidity and access to bank lines and the capital markets at such time. 

Risks Related to the Need for Future Financings

NU expects to obtain the liquidity needed to fund the exit from its remaining wholesale and retail marketing businesses through bank borrowings and a portion of the proceeds from the December 2005 sale of its common shares.  While NU is reasonably confident these funds will be available on a timely basis and on reasonable terms, failure to obtain such financing could delay NU's ability to exit the competitive businesses and constrain its ability to finance regulated capital projects.  In addition, any ratings downgrade of its operating company securities ratings could negatively impact the cost or availability of capital to such companies.

Risks Associated With the Transmission Operations of NU's Utility Subsidiaries

NU, primarily through its subsidiary CL&P, has undertaken a substantial transmission capital investment program over the past several years and expects to invest approximately $2.3 billion in regulated electric transmission infrastructure from 2006 through 2010.  Included in this amount is approximately $1.3 billion for costs associated with construction of two Connecticut 345 kV transmission lines from Middletown to Norwalk and Bethel to Norwalk; replacement of an undersea electric transmission line between Norwalk and Northport, New York; and two 115 kV underground transmission lines between Norwalk and Stamford, Connecticut.  The regulatory approval process for these transmission projects has encompassed an extensive permitting, design and technical approval process.  Various factors have resulted in increased cost estimates and delayed construction.  Recoverability of all such investments in rates may be subject to prudence review at the FER
C at the time such projects are placed in service.  While NU believes that all such expenses have been prudently incurred, NU cannot predict the outcome of future reviews should they occur.




The projects are expected to help alleviate identified reliability issues in southwest Connecticut and to help reduce customers’ costs in all of Connecticut.  However, if, due to further regulatory or other delays, the projected in-service date for one or more of these projects is delayed, there may be increased risk of failures in the existing electricity transmission system in southwestern Connecticut and supply interruptions or blackouts may occur.  

The successful implementation of NU's transmission construction plans is also subject to the risk that new legislation, regulations or judicial or regulatory interpretations of applicable law or regulations could impact NU's ability to meet its construction schedule and/or require NU to incur additional expenses, and may adversely affect its ability to achieve forecast levels of revenues.

Risks Associated with the Distribution Operations of NU's Utility Subsidiaries

CL&P and WMECO procure energy for a substantial portion of their customers via requests for proposal on an annual, semi-annual or quarterly basis.  There is a risk that any given solicitation will not be fully subscribed or that prices will be much higher than current prices.  CL&P and WMECO receive approvals of recovery of these contract prices from the DPUC and DTE, respectively.  While both regulators have consistently approved solicitation processes, results and recovery of costs, management cannot predict the outcome of future solicitation efforts or the regulatory proceedings related thereto.  Recent increases in fuel and energy prices could lead to consumer or regulatory resistance to prompt recovery of such costs.

The energy requirements for PSNH are currently met primarily through PSNH's generation resources or long-term fixed price contracts.  The remaining energy needs are met through spot market or bilateral energy purchases.  Unplanned forced outages can increase the level of energy purchases needed by PSNH and therefore increase the market risk associated with procuring the necessary amount of energy to meet requirements.  PSNH recovers these costs through its stranded cost recovery charge proceedings, subject to a prudence review.

Litigation-Related Risks

NU and its affiliates are engaged in litigation that could result in the imposition of large cash awards against them.  This litigation includes a civil lawsuit between Consolidated Edison, Inc. (Con Edison) and NU relating to the parties’ October 13, 1999 Agreement and Plan of Merger.

Further information regarding these legal proceedings, as well as other matters, is set forth in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings."

NU may also be subject to future litigation based on asserted or unasserted claims and cannot predict the outcome of any of these proceedings.  Adverse outcomes in existing or future litigation could result in the imposition of substantial cash damage awards against us. 

Risks Associated With Environmental Regulation

NU's subsidiaries’ operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations which regulate, among other things, air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste.  In particular, more stringent regulation of carbon dioxide and mercury emissions have been proposed in various New England states.  Compliance with these requirements requires the NU system to incur significant costs relating to environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance and upgrading of facilities, remediation and permitting.  The costs of compliance with these legal requirements may increase in the future.  An increase in such costs, unless promptly recovered, could have an adverse impact on NU's business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  For further information, see Item 1, "Business - Other Regulatory and Env
ironmental Matters - Environmental Regulation."

The NU system's failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if due to factors beyond its control or reinterpretations of existing requirements, could also increase costs.  

Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to NU.  Revised or additional laws could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on NU's facilities or increased compliance costs that would negatively impact the value of NU's competitive generation assets or which may not be fully recoverable in distribution company rates for regulated generation.  The cost impact of any such legislation would be dependent upon the specific requirements adopted and cannot be determined at this time.

Severe Weather Conditions May Negatively Impact Results

Severe weather, such as ice and snow storms, hurricanes and other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage which may require NU to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers.  The cost of repairing damage to NU's operating subsidiaries' facilities and the potential disruption of their operations due to storms, natural disasters 



or other catastrophic events could be substantial.  The effect of the failure of NU's facilities to operate as planned would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period, such as during the hot summer months.  

Volatility in Electric and Gas Rates May Adversely Impact Sales

The nation's economy has been affected by the recent significant increases in energy prices, particularly fossil fuels.  The impact of these increases may lead to a decline in electricity and gas sales in NU's service territory.  Such a decline without an adjustment in rates would reduce NU's revenues and limit future growth prospects.  

Item 1B