Item 1A.
Risk Factors 

In addition to the matters set forth under "Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" included immediately prior to Item 1, Business, above, we are subject to a variety of significant risks.  Our susceptibility to certain risks, including those discussed in detail below, could exacerbate other risks.  These risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our risk profile.

Cyber breaches, acts of war or terrorism, or grid disturbances could negatively impact our business.

Cyber breaches, acts of war or terrorism, physical attacks or grid disturbances resulting from internal or external sources could target our transmission, distribution and generation facilities or our information technology systems.  Such actions could impair our ability to manage these facilities, operate our systems effectively, or properly manage our data, networks and programs, resulting in loss of service to customers. 

We have instituted safeguards to protect our operational systems and information technology assets.  We devote substantial resources to network and application security, encryption and other measures to protect our computer systems and infrastructure from unauthorized access or misuse and interface with numerous external entities to improve our cybersecurity situational awareness.  FERC, through the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, requires certain safeguards to be implemented to deter cyber and/or physical attacks.  These safeguards may not always be effective due to the evolving nature of cyber and/or physical attacks.

Because our generation and transmission facilities are part of an interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of blackout due to a disruption on a neighboring interconnected system. 

Any such cyber breaches, acts of war or terrorism, physical attacks or grid disturbances could result in a significant decrease in revenues, significant expense to repair system damage or security breaches, and liability claims, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Strategic development opportunities in both electric and natural gas transmission may not be successful and projects may not commence operation as scheduled or be completed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects.

We are pursuing broader strategic development investment opportunities that will benefit the New England region related to the construction of electric and natural gas transmission facilities, interconnections to generating resources and other investment opportunities.  The development, construction and expansion of electric transmission and natural gas transmission facilities involve numerous risks.  Various factors could result in increased costs or result in delays or cancellation of these projects.  Risks include regulatory approval processes, new legislation, economic events or factors, environmental and community concerns, design and siting issues, difficulties in obtaining required rights of way, competition from incumbent utilities and other entities, and actions of strategic partners.  Should any of these factors result in such delays or cancellations, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected or our future growth opportunities may not be realized as anticipated.

As a result of legislative and regulatory changes during 2015, the states in which we provide service have implemented new procedures to select for construction new major electric transmission and gas pipeline facilities.  These procedures require the review of competing projects and permit the selection of only those projects that are expected to provide the greatest benefit to customers.  If the projects in which we have invested are not selected for construction, it would have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

The actions of regulators and legislators can significantly affect our earnings, liquidity and business activities.

The rates that our electric and gas companies charge their customers are determined by their state regulatory commissions and by FERC.  These commissions also regulate the companies' accounting, operations, the issuance of certain securities and certain other matters.  FERC also regulates the transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at wholesale, accounting, issuance of certain securities and certain other matters.

Under state and federal law, our electric and gas companies are entitled to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their reasonable operating and capital costs, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests.  Each of these companies prepares and submits periodic rate filings with their respective regulatory commissions for review and approval. 

The FERC has jurisdiction over our transmission costs recovery and the allowed return on equity.  The ROE has been contested by outside parties as unjust and unreasonable.  Certain outside parties have filed three complaints against all electric companies under the jurisdiction of ISO-NE alleging that the ROE is unjust and unreasonable.  The first complaint, which was concluded in 2015, resulted in a decrease of the allowed ROE.  The second and third complaints are currently under review with the FERC.  The FERC has initiated a review of the regional and local transmission rates due to a lack of adequate transparency.  FERC also found that the formula rates generally lacked sufficient details to determine how costs are derived and recovered in rates. 

A federal appeals court decision has upheld the FERC's authority to order major changes to transmission planning and cost allocation in FERC Order No. 1000 and Order No. 1000-A, including transmission planning for public policy needs, and the requirement that utilities remove from their transmission tariffs their rights of first refusal to build transmission.  Additionally, the FERC affirmed that it can eliminate our right of first refusal to build transmission in New England even though the FERC previously approved and granted special protections to these rights.  Implementation of FERC's goals in New England, including within our service territories, may expose us to competition for construction of transmission projects, additional regulatory considerations, and potential delay with respect to future transmission projects, which may adversely affect our results of operation.



16


There is no assurance that the commissions will approve the recovery of all costs incurred by our electric and gas companies, including costs for construction, operation and maintenance, as well as a reasonable return on their respective regulated assets.  The amount of costs incurred by the companies, coupled with increases in fuel and energy prices, could lead to consumer or regulatory resistance to the timely recovery of such costs, thereby adversely affecting our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

If our settlement agreement regarding the divestiture of our generation assets in New Hampshire is not approved, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.

Under our settlement agreement for the divestiture of our generation assets in New Hampshire, we will be entitled to collect from customers an amount equal to the difference between the proceeds from the sale of these assets and the undepreciated book value of those assets.  Costs related to the divestiture would also be recoverable.  To minimize the financial impact on customers in New Hampshire, the legislature passed legislation that allows for the securitization of stranded costs to be recovered.  If the NHPUC does not approve the settlement, we may not be able to fully recover these costs in future rate proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Our transmission, distribution and generation systems may not operate as expected, and could require unplanned expenditures, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Our ability to properly operate our transmission, distribution and generation systems is critical to the financial performance of our business.  Our transmission, distribution and generation businesses face several operational risks, including the breakdown, failure of, or damage to operating equipment, information technology systems, or processes, especially due to age; labor disputes; disruptions in the delivery of electricity and natural gas, including impacts on us or our customers; increased capital expenditure requirements, including those due to environmental regulation; catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, or other similar occurrences; extreme weather conditions beyond equipment and plant design capacity; other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities; and potential claims for property damage or personal injuries beyond the scope of our insurance coverage.  Many of our transmission projects are expected to alleviate identified reliability issues and reduce customers' costs. However, if the in-service date for one or more of these projects is delayed due to economic events or factors, or regulatory or other delays, the risk of failures in the electricity transmission system may increase.  Any failure of our transmission, distribution and generation systems to operate as planned may result in increased capital costs, reduced earnings or unplanned increases in operation and maintenance costs.  Outages at generating stations may be deemed imprudent by the NHPUC resulting in disallowance of replacement power and repair costs.  Such costs that are not recoverable from our customers would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Increases in electric and gas prices and/or a weak economy can lead to changes in legislative and regulatory policy promoting increased energy efficiency, conservation, and self-generation and/or a reduction in our customers' ability to pay their bills, which may adversely impact our business.

Energy consumption is significantly impacted by the general level of economic activity and cost of energy supply.  Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically can lead to the development of legislative and regulatory policy designed to promote reductions in energy consumption and increased energy efficiency and self-generation by customers.  This focus on conservation, energy efficiency and self-generation may result in a decline in electricity and natural gas sales in our service territories.  Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs can also impact customers’ ability to pay their energy bills, resulting in increased bad debt expense.  If energy use were to decline or bad debt expense were to increase, without corresponding adjustments in rates at our electric and gas companies that do not currently have revenue decoupling, then our revenues would be reduced, which would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

Severe storms could cause significant damage to any of our facilities requiring extensive expenditures, the recovery for which is subject to approval by regulators.

Severe weather, such as ice and snow storms, hurricanes and other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage, which may require us to incur additional costs that may not be recoverable from customers.  The cost of repairing damage to our operating subsidiaries' facilities and the potential disruption of their operations due to storms, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could be substantial, particularly as regulators and customers demand better and quicker response times to outages.  If, upon review, any of our state regulatory authorities finds that our actions were imprudent, some of those restoration costs may not be recoverable from customers.  The inability to recover a significant amount of such costs could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

Our goodwill is valued and recorded at an amount that, if impaired and written down, could adversely affect our future operating results and total capitalization.

We have a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet.  As of December 31, 2015, goodwill totaled $3.5 billion.  The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date.  We test our goodwill balances for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would indicate a potential for impairment.  A determination that goodwill is deemed to be impaired would result in a non-cash charge that could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and total capitalization.  The annual goodwill impairment test in 2015 resulted in a conclusion that our goodwill is not impaired. 

Eversource Energy and its utility subsidiaries are exposed to significant reputational risks, which make them vulnerable to increased regulatory oversight or other sanctions.



17


Because utility companies, including our electric and natural gas utility subsidiaries, have large customer bases, they are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to electric outages, natural gas leaks and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events.  Adverse publicity of this nature could harm the reputations of Eversource Energy and its subsidiaries; may make state legislatures, utility commissions and other regulatory authorities less likely to view Eversource Energy and its subsidiaries in a favorable light; and may cause Eversource Energy and its subsidiaries to be subject to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight.  Unfavorable regulatory outcomes can include more stringent laws and regulations governing our operations, such as reliability and customer service quality standards or vegetation management requirements, as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements.  The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition of Eversource Energy and each of its utility subsidiaries.

Limits on our access to and increases in the cost of capital may adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan.

We use short-term debt and the long-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not obtained from our operating cash flow.  If access to these sources of liquidity becomes constrained, our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected.  In addition, higher interest rates would increase our cost of borrowing, which could adversely impact our results of operations.  A downgrade of our credit ratings or events beyond our control, such as a disruption in global capital and credit markets, could increase our cost of borrowing and cost of capital or restrict our ability to access the capital markets and negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses.

Our counterparties may not meet their obligations to us or may elect to exercise their termination rights, which could adversely affect our earnings.

We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, have contracted to supply us with energy, coal, or other commodities or services, or who work with us as strategic partners, including on significant capital projects, will not be able to perform their obligations, will terminate such arrangements or, with respect to our credit facilities, fail to honor their commitments.  Should any of these counterparties fail to perform their obligations or terminate such arrangements, we might be forced to replace the underlying commitment at higher market prices and/or have to delay the completion of, or cancel a capital project.  Should any lenders under our credit facilities fail to perform, the level of borrowing capacity under those arrangements could decrease.  In any such events, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected.

The unauthorized access to and the misappropriation of confidential and proprietary customer, employee, financial or system operating information could adversely affect our business operations and adversely impact our reputation.

In the regular course of business we maintain sensitive customer, employee, financial and system operating information and are required by various federal and state laws to safeguard this information.  Cyber intrusions, security breaches, theft or loss of this information by cyber crime or otherwise could lead to the release of critical operating information or confidential customer or employee information, which could adversely affect our business operations or adversely impact our reputation, and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation.  We maintain limited privacy protection liability insurance to cover limited damages and defense costs arising from unauthorized disclosure of, or failure to protect, private information as well as costs for notification to, or for credit card monitoring of, customers, employees and other persons in the event of a breach of private information.  This insurance covers amounts paid to avert, prevent or stop a network attack or the disclosure of personal information, and costs of a qualified forensics firm to determine the cause, source and extent of a network attack or to investigate, examine and analyze our network to find the cause, source and extent of a data breach.  While we have implemented measures designed to prevent cyber-attacks and mitigate their effects should they occur.  These measures may not be effective due to the continually evolving nature of efforts to access confidential information.

The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.

Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our employees.  Retaining key employees and maintaining the ability to attract new employees are important to both our operational and financial performance.  We cannot guarantee that any member of our management or any key employee at the Eversource parent or subsidiary level will continue to serve in any capacity for any particular period of time.  In addition, a significant portion of our workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five to ten years.  Such highly skilled individuals cannot be quickly replaced due to the technically complex work they perform.  We have developed strategic workforce plans to identify key functions and proactively implement plans to assure a ready and qualified workforce, but cannot predict the impact of these plans on our ability to hire and retain key employees.

Market performance or changes in assumptions require us to make significant contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans.

We provide a defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement benefits for a substantial number of employees, former employees and retirees.  Our future pension obligations, costs and liabilities are highly dependent on a variety of factors beyond our control.  These factors include estimated investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit changes, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants.  If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our future costs could increase significantly.  In addition, various factors, including underperformance of plan investments and changes in law or regulation, could increase the amount of contributions required to fund our pension plan in the future.  Additional large funding requirements, when combined with the financing requirements of our construction program, could impact the timing and amount of future financings and negatively affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  For further information, see Note 9A, "Employee Benefits - Pensions and Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," to the financial statements.



18


Costs of compliance with environmental regulations, including climate change legislation, may increase and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Our subsidiaries' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations that govern, among other things, air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste.  Compliance with these requirements requires us to incur significant costs relating to environmental monitoring, maintenance and upgrading of facilities, remediation and permitting.  The costs of compliance with existing legal requirements or legal requirements not yet adopted may increase in the future.  An increase in such costs, unless promptly recovered, could have an adverse impact on our business and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In addition, global climate change issues have received an increased focus from federal and state government agencies .  Although we would expect that any costs of these rules and regulations would be recovered from customers, their impact on energy use by customers and the ultimate impact on our business would be dependent upon the specific rules and regulations adopted and cannot be determined at this time.  The impact of these additional costs to customers could lead to a further reduction in energy consumption resulting in a decline in electricity and gas sales in our service territories, which would have an adverse impact on our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  Any failure by us to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if due to factors beyond our control, or reinterpretations of existing requirements, could also increase costs.  Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us.  Revised or additional laws could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable in distribution company rates.  The cost impact of any such laws, rules or regulations would be dependent upon the specific requirements adopted and cannot be determined at this time.  For further information, see Item 1, Business - Other Regulatory and Environmental Matters, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

As a holding company with no revenue-generating operations, Eversource parent's liquidity is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries, its commercial paper program, and its ability to access the long-term debt and equity capital markets.

Eversource parent is a holding company and as such, has no revenue-generating operations of its own.  Its ability to meet its debt service obligations and to pay dividends on its common shares is largely dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to or repay borrowings from Eversource parent, and/or Eversource parent's ability to access its commercial paper program or the long-term debt and equity capital markets.  Prior to funding Eversource parent, the subsidiary companies have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, their operating expenses, debt service, preferred dividends of certain subsidiaries, and obligations to trade creditors.  Additionally, the subsidiary companies could retain their free cash flow to fund their capital expenditures in lieu of receiving equity contributions from Eversource parent.  Should the subsidiary companies not be able to pay dividends or repay funds due to Eversource parent, or if Eversource parent cannot access its commercial paper programs or the long-term debt and equity capital markets, Eversource parent's ability to pay interest, dividends and its own debt obligations would be restricted. 

Item 1B