Item 1A.
Risk Factors 

In addition to the matters set forth under “Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” included immediately prior to Item 1, Business, above, we are subject to a variety of significant risks.  Our susceptibility to certain risks, including those discussed in detail below, could exacerbate other risks.  These risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our risk profile.

The Merger may present certain material risks to the Company’s business and operations.

The Merger, described in Item 1, Business, may present certain risks to our business and operations including, among other things, risks that: 

·
We may be unable to successfully integrate the businesses and workforces of NSTAR with our businesses and workforces; 
 
·
Conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions relating to the Merger imposed on us by regulatory authorities may adversely affect our business and operations; 

·
We may be unable to avoid potential liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with integration plans; 
 
·
We may be unable to successfully manage the complex integration of systems, technology, networks and other assets in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, vendors, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; 

·
We may experience inconsistencies in each companies’ standards, controls, procedures and policies. 

Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Merger will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, innovation and operational efficiencies that we currently expect, that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated timeframe or that we will be able to fully and accurately measure any such synergies.

Cyber breaches, acts of war or terrorism, or grid disturbances could negatively impact our business.

Cyber intrusions targeting our information systems could impair our ability to properly manage our data, networks, systems and programs, adversely affect our business operations or lead to release of confidential customer information or critical operating information.  While we have implemented measures designed to prevent cyber-attacks and mitigate their effects should they occur, our systems are vulnerable to unauthorized access and cyber intrusions.  We cannot discount the possibility that a security breach may occur or quantify the potential impact of such an event.

Acts of war or terrorism could target our generation, transmission and distribution facilities or our data management systems.  Such actions could impair our ability to manage these facilities or operate our system effectively, resulting in loss of service to customers.  

Because our generation and transmission facilities are part of an interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of blackout due to a disruption on a neighboring interconnected system.  

Any such cyber breaches, acts of war or terrorism, or grid disturbances could result in a significant decrease in revenues, significant expense to repair system damage or security breaches, and liability claims, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Our goodwill is valued and recorded at an amount that, if impaired and written down, could adversely affect our future operating results and total capitalization. 

We have a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet.  The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date.  As of December 31, 2012, goodwill totaled $3.5 billion, of which $3.2 billion was attributable to the acquisition of NSTAR in April 2012.  Total goodwill represented approximately 38 percent of our $9.2 billion of shareholders’ equity and approximately 12 percent of our total assets of $28.3 billion.  We perform an analysis of our goodwill balances to test for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would indicate a potential for impairment.  A determination that goodwill is deemed to be impaired would result in a non-cash charge that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and total capitalization.

Severe storms could cause significant damage to our electrical facilities requiring extensive capital expenditures, the recovery for which is subject to approval by regulators.

Severe weather, such as Tropical Storm Irene in August 2011, the October 29, 2011 snowstorm, Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, and the February 2013 blizzard, and other such major natural disasters, could cause widespread damage to our transmission and distribution facilities.  The resulting cost of repairing damage to our facilities and the potential disruption of our operations could exceed our financial reserves and insurance.  



19





Tropical Storm Irene, the October 29, 2011 snowstorm, and Hurricane Sandy caused significant damage to our transmission and distribution systems.  As a result, along with previously deferred costs from other storms, we have recorded approximately $548 million (approximately $414 million at CL&P) for estimated restoration costs as regulatory assets as of December 31, 2012, subject to future recovery from customers.  If, upon review, any of our state regulatory authorities finds that our actions were imprudent, some of those restoration costs may not be recoverable from customers.  The inability to recover a significant amount of such costs could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

NU and its utility subsidiaries are exposed to significant reputational risks, which make them vulnerable to increased regulatory oversight or other sanctions.

Because utility companies, including our electric and natural gas utility subsidiaries, have large consumer customer bases, they are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to electric outages, natural gas leaks and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events.  Adverse publicity of this nature could harm the reputations of NU and its subsidiaries, and may make state legislatures, utility commissions and other regulatory authorities less likely to view NU and its subsidiaries in a favorable light, and may cause NU and its subsidiaries to be subject to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight.  Unfavorable regulatory outcomes can include more stringent laws and regulations governing our operations, such as reliability and customer service quality standards or vegetation management requirements, as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements.  The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition of NU and each of its utility subsidiaries.

The actions of regulators can significantly affect our earnings, liquidity and business activities.

The rates that our Regulated companies charge their respective retail and wholesale customers are determined by their state utility commissions and by FERC.  These commissions also regulate the companies’ accounting, operations, the issuance of certain securities and certain other matters.  FERC also regulates their transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at wholesale, accounting, issuance of certain securities and certain other matters.  The commissions’ policies and regulatory actions could have a material impact on the Regulated companies’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Our transmission, distribution and generation systems may not operate as expected, and could require unplanned expenditures, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Our ability to properly operate our transmission, distribution and generation systems is critical to the financial performance of our business.  Our transmission, distribution and generation businesses face several operational risks, including the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes (especially due to age); labor disputes; disruptions in the delivery of electricity and natural gas, including impacts on us or our customers; increased capital expenditure requirements, including those due to environmental regulation; information security risk, such as a breach of our systems on which sensitive utility customer data and account information are stored; catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, or other similar occurrences; extreme weather conditions beyond equipment and plant design capacity; other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities; and potential claims for property damage or personal injuries beyond the scope of our insurance coverage.  The failure of our transmission, distribution and generation systems to operate as planned may result in increased capital costs, reduced earnings or unplanned increases in operation and maintenance costs.  At PSNH, outages at generating stations may be deemed imprudent by the NHPUC resulting in disallowance of replacement power costs.  Such costs that are not recoverable from our customers would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Limits on our access to and increases in the cost of capital may adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan.

We use short-term debt and the long-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not obtained from our operating cash flow.  If access to these sources of liquidity becomes constrained, our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected.  In addition, higher interest rates would increase our cost of borrowing, which could adversely impact our results of operations.  A downgrade of our credit ratings or events beyond our control, such as a disruption in global capital and credit markets, could increase our cost of borrowing and cost of capital or restrict our ability to access the capital markets and negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses.

Our counterparties may not meet their obligations to us or may elect to exercise their termination rights, which could adversely affect our earnings.

We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, have contracted to supply us with energy, coal, or other commodities or services, or who work with us as strategic partners, including on significant capital projects, will not be able to perform their obligations, will terminate such arrangements or, with respect to our credit facilities, fail to honor their commitments.  Should any of these counterparties fail to perform their obligations or terminate such arrangements, we might be forced to replace the underlying commitment at higher market prices and/or have to delay the completion of, or cancel a capital project.  Should any lenders under our credit facilities fail to perform, the level of borrowing capacity under those arrangements could decrease. In any such events, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected.



20





Difficulties in obtaining necessary rights of way, or siting, design or other approvals for major transmission projects, environmental concerns or actions of regulatory authorities, communities or strategic partners may cause delays or cancellation of such projects, which would adversely affect our earnings.

Various factors could result in increased costs or result in delays or cancellation of our transmission projects. These include the regulatory approval process, environmental and community concerns, design and siting issues, difficulties in obtaining required rights of way and actions of strategic partners.  Should any of these factors result in such delays or cancellations, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected.

Economic events or factors, changes in regulatory or legislative policy and/or regulatory decisions or construction of new generation may delay completion of or displace or result in the abandonment of our planned transmission projects or adversely affect our ability to recover our investments or result in lower than expected earnings.

Our transmission construction plans could be adversely affected by economic events or factors, new legislation, regulations, or judicial or regulatory interpretations of applicable law or regulations or regulatory decisions.  Any of such events could cause delays in, or the inability to complete or abandonment of, economic or reliability related projects, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted earnings or to recover our investments or result in lower than expected rates of return.  Recoverability of all such investments in rates may be subject to prudence review at the FERC.  While we believe that all of such costs have been and will be prudently incurred, we cannot predict the outcome of future reviews should they occur.

In addition, our transmission projects may be delayed or displaced by new generation facilities, which could result in reduced transmission capital investments, reduced earnings, and limited future growth prospects.

Many of our transmission projects are expected to help alleviate identified reliability issues and reduce customers' costs.  However, if, due to economic events or factors or further regulatory or other delays, the in-service date for one or more of these projects is delayed, there may be increased risk of failures in the electricity transmission system and supply interruptions or blackouts, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings.

The FERC has followed a policy of providing incentives designed to encourage the construction of new transmission facilities, including higher returns on equity and allowing facilities under construction to be placed in rate base.  Our projected earnings and growth could be adversely affected were FERC to reduce these incentives in the future below the levels presently anticipated.

Increases in electric and gas prices and/or a weak economy, can lead to changes in legislative and regulatory policy promoting energy efficiency, conservation, and self-generation and/or a reduction in our customers’ ability to pay their bills, which may adversely impact our business.

Energy consumption is significantly impacted by the general level of economic activity and cost of energy supply.  Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically can lead to the development of legislative and regulatory policy designed to promote reductions in energy consumption and increased energy efficiency and self-generation by customers.  This focus on conservation, energy efficiency and self-generation may result in a decline in electricity and gas sales in our service territories.  If any such declines were to occur without corresponding adjustments in rates, then our revenues would be reduced and our future growth prospects would be limited. 

In addition, a period of prolonged economic weakness could impact customers’ ability to pay bills in a timely manner and increase customer bankruptcies, which may lead to increased bad debt expenses or other adverse effects on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Changes in regulatory and/or legislative policy could negatively impact our transmission planning and cost allocation rules.

The existing FERC-approved New England transmission tariff allocates the costs of transmission facilities that provide regional benefits to all customers of participating transmission-owning utilities.  As new investment in regional transmission infrastructure occurs in any one state, its cost is shared across New England in accordance with a FERC approved formula found in the transmission tariff.  All New England transmission owners' agreement to this regional cost allocation is set forth in the Transmission Operating Agreement.  This agreement can be modified with the approval of a majority of the transmission owning utilities and approval by FERC.  In addition, other parties, such as state regulators, may seek certain changes to the regional cost allocation formula, which could have adverse effects on the rates our distribution companies charge their retail customers.  

FERC has issued rules requiring all regional transmission organizations and transmission owning utilities to make compliance changes to their tariffs and contracts in order to further encourage the construction of transmission for generation, including renewable generation.  This compliance will require ISO-NE and New England transmission owners to develop methodologies that allow for regional planning and cost allocation for transmission projects chosen in the regional plan that are designed to meet public policy goals such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions or encouraging renewable generation. Such compliance may also allow non-incumbent utilities and other entities to participate in the planning and construction of new projects in our service area and regionally.



21





Changes in the Transmission Operating Agreement, the New England Transmission Tariff or legislative policy, or implementation of these new FERC planning rules, could adversely affect our transmission planning, our earnings and our prospects for growth.

Changes in regulatory or legislative policy or unfavorable outcomes in regulatory proceedings could jeopardize our full and/or timely recovery of costs incurred by our regulated distribution and generation businesses.

Under state law, our Regulated companies are entitled to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their reasonable operating and capital costs, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests.  Each of these companies prepares and submits periodic rate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions for review and approval.  There is no assurance that these state commissions will approve the recovery of all such costs incurred by our Regulated companies, such as for construction, operation and maintenance, as well as a return on investment on their respective regulated assets, including the construction costs incurred by PSNH for the Clean Air Project at its Merrimack Station.  PSNH’s expenditures for the project are subject to prudence review by the NHPUC.  The amount of costs incurred by the Regulated companies, coupled with increases in fuel and energy prices, could lead to consumer or regulatory resistance to the timely recovery of such costs, thereby adversely affecting our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Additionally, state legislators may enact laws that significantly impact our Regulated companies’ revenues, including by mandating electric or gas rate relief and/or by requiring surcharges to customer bills to support state programs not related to the utilities or energy policy.  Such increases could pressure overall rates to our customers and our routine requests to regulators for rate relief.

In addition, CL&P, NSTAR Electric and WMECO procure energy for a substantial portion of their customers’ needs via requests for proposal on an annual, semi-annual or quarterly basis.  CL&P, NSTAR Electric and WMECO receive approval to recover the costs of these contracts from the PURA and DPU, respectively.  While both regulatory agencies have consistently approved the solicitation processes, results and recovery of costs, management cannot predict the outcome of future solicitation efforts or the regulatory proceedings related thereto.

PSNH meets most of its energy requirements through its own generation resources and fixed-price forward purchase contracts.  PSNH’s remaining energy needs are met primarily through spot market purchases.  Unplanned forced outages of its generating plants could increase the level of energy purchases needed by PSNH and therefore increase the market risk associated with procuring the energy to meet its requirements.  PSNH recovers these costs through its ES rate, subject to a prudence review by the NHPUC.  We cannot predict the outcome of future regulatory proceedings related to recovery of these costs.

Migration of customers from PSNH energy service to competitive energy suppliers may increase the cost to the remaining customers of energy produced by PSNH generation assets.

The competitiveness of PSNH’s ES rates are sensitive to the cost of fuels, most notably natural gas, and customer load.  Recently, PSNH’s ES rate has been higher than competitive energy prices offered to some customers. Further increases may occur as the costs associated with the Clean Air Project are fully phased into rates. Customers remaining on PSNH’s ES rate may experience an increase in cost due to the lower base over which to recover PSNH's fixed generation costs. Any such increase may in turn cause further migration and further impact PSNH’s ES rate.  This trend could lead to PSNH continuing to lose retail customers and increasing the burden of supporting the cost of its generation facilities on remaining customers and being unable to support the cost of its generation facilities through an ES rate.

Judicial or regulatory proceedings or changes in regulatory or legislative policy could jeopardize full recovery of costs incurred by PSNH in constructing the Clean Air Project.

Pursuant to New Hampshire law, PSNH placed the Clean Air Project in service at its Merrimack Station in Bow, New Hampshire. PSNH’s recovery of costs in constructing the project is subject to prudence review by the NHPUC.  A material prudence disallowance could adversely affect PSNH’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  While we believe we have prudently incurred all expenditures to date, we cannot predict the outcome of any prudence reviews.  Our projected earnings and growth could be adversely affected were the NHPUC to deny recovery of some or all of PSNH’s investment in the project.

The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.

Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our employees.  Retaining key employees and maintaining the ability to attract new employees are important to both our operational and financial performance.  We cannot guarantee that any member of our management or any key employee at the NU parent or subsidiary level will continue to serve in any capacity for any particular period of time.  In addition, a significant portion of our workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five to ten years.  Such highly skilled individuals cannot be quickly replaced due to the technically complex work they perform.  We have developed strategic workforce plans to identify key functions and proactively implement plans to assure a ready and qualified workforce, but cannot predict the impact of these plans on our ability to hire and retain key employees.



22





Market performance or changes in assumptions require us to make significant contributions to our pension and other post-employment benefit plans.

We provide a defined benefit pension plan and other post-retirement benefits for a substantial number of employees, former employees and retirees.  Our future pension obligations, costs and liabilities are highly dependent on a variety of factors beyond our control.  These factors include estimated investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit changes, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants.  If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our future costs could increase significantly.  In 2008 and 2009, due to the financial crisis, the value of our pension assets declined.  As a result, we made a contribution of approximately $222 million in 2012 and expect to make an approximate $285 million contribution in 2013.  In addition, various factors, including underperformance of plan investments and changes in law or regulation, could increase the amount of contributions required to fund our pension plan in the future.  Additional large funding requirements, when combined with the financing requirements of our construction program, could impact the timing and amount of future equity and debt financings and negatively affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Costs of compliance with environmental regulations, including climate change legislation, may increase and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Our subsidiaries' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations that govern, among other things, air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste.  Compliance with these requirements requires us to incur significant costs relating to environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance and upgrading of facilities, remediation and permitting.  The costs of compliance with existing legal requirements or legal requirements not yet adopted may increase in the future.  An increase in such costs, unless promptly recovered, could have an adverse impact on our business and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In addition, global climate change issues have received an increased focus from federal and state governments, which could potentially lead to additional rules and regulations that impact how we operate our business, both in terms of the power plants we own and operate as well as general utility operations.  Although we would expect that any costs of these rules and regulations would be recovered from customers, their impact on energy use by customers and the ultimate impact on our business would be dependent upon the specific rules and regulations adopted and cannot be determined at this time.  The impact of these additional costs to customers could lead to a further reduction in energy consumption resulting in a decline in electricity and gas sales in our service territories, which would have an adverse impact on our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Any failure by us to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if due to factors beyond our control, or reinterpretations of existing requirements, could also increase costs.  Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us.  Revised or additional laws could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable in distribution company rates.  The cost impact of any such laws, rules or regulations would be dependent upon the specific requirements adopted and cannot be determined at this time.  For further information, see Item 1, Business - Other Regulatory and Environmental Matters, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

As a holding company with no revenue-generating operations, NU parent’s liquidity is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the Regulated companies, its commercial paper program, and its ability to access the long-term debt and equity capital markets.

NU parent is a holding company and as such, has no revenue-generating operations of its own.  Its ability to meet its debt service obligations and to pay dividends on its common shares is largely dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to or repay borrowings from NU parent, and/or NU parent’s ability to access its commercial paper program or the long-term debt and equity capital markets.  Prior to funding NU parent, the Regulated companies have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, their operating expenses, debt service, preferred dividends (in the case of CL&P and NSTAR Electric), and obligations to trade creditors.  Additionally, the Regulated companies could retain their free cash flow to fund their capital expenditures in lieu of receiving equity contributions from NU parent.  Should the Regulated companies not be able to pay dividends or repay funds due to NU parent, or if NU parent cannot access its commercial paper programs or the long-term debt and equity capital markets, NU parent’s ability to pay interest, dividends and its own debt obligations would be restricted.

Item 1B