Item 1A.
Risk Factors 

We are subject to a variety of significant risks in addition to the matters set forth under "Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" in Item 1, Business, above.  Our susceptibility to certain risks, including those discussed in detail below, could exacerbate other risks.  These risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our risk profile.

The actions of regulators can significantly affect our earnings, liquidity and business activities.

The rates that our regulated companies charge their respective retail and wholesale customers are determined by their state utility commissions and by FERC.  These commissions also regulate the companies’ accounting, operations, the issuance of certain securities and certain other matters.  FERC also regulates their transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at wholesale, accounting, issuance of certain securities and certain matters.  The commissions’ policies and regulatory actions could have a material impact on the regulated companies’ financial position, results of operations and liquidity.

Our transmission and distribution systems may not operate as expected, and could require unplanned expenditures which could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.

The ability to manage the operations of our transmission and distribution systems is critical to the financial performance of our business.  Our transmission and distribution businesses face several operational risks, including the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes (especially due to age), accidents and labor disputes.  The costs (both labor and material) that our regulated companies incur to construct and maintain their electric delivery systems have increased in recent years.  These increases have been driven primarily by higher demand for commodities and electrical products, as well as increased demand for skilled labor.  A high percentage of our regulated company equipment, such as distribution poles, underground primary cables and substation switchgear is old or obsolete, or nearing or at the end of its life cycle.  The failure of our transmission and distributions systems to operate as planned may
 result in increased capital investments, reduced earnings or unplanned increases in operation and maintenance costs.  Such costs which are not recoverable from our customers would have an adverse effect on our earnings.

Limits on our access to capital may adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan.

We use short-term debt and the long-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not obtained from our operating cash flow.  If access to these sources of liquidity becomes constrained, our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected.  Events beyond our control, such as the disruption in global capital and credit markets in 2008, or a downgrade of our credit ratings, could increase our cost of borrowing and cost of capital or restrict our ability to access the capital markets and negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses.

Our counterparties may not meet their obligations to us.

We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, or contracted to supply us with energy, coal, or other commodities or services, will not be able to perform their obligations or, with respect to our credit facilities, fail to honor their commitments.  Should the counterparties to commodity arrangements fail to perform their obligations, we might be forced to replace the underlying commitment at higher market prices.  Should any more lenders under our credit facilities fail to perform, the level of borrowing capacity under those arrangements could decrease.  In such an event, our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected.

Changes in regulatory or legislative policy and/or regulatory decisions, difficulties in obtaining siting, design or other approvals, global demand for critical resources, environmental or other concerns, or construction of new generation may delay completion of or displace our planned transmission projects or adversely affect our ability to recover our investments or result in lower than expected rates of return.

The successful implementation of our transmission construction plans could be affected by new legislation, regulations or judicial or regulatory interpretations of applicable law or regulations or regulatory decisions, delays in obtaining approvals or difficulty in obtaining critical resources required for construction.  Any of such events could cause delays in our construction schedule adversely affecting our ability to achieve forecasted earnings.

The regulatory approval process for our planned transmission projects encompasses an extensive permitting, design and technical approval process.  Various factors could result in increased cost estimates and delayed construction.  These include environmental and community concerns and design and siting issues.  Recoverability of all such investments in rates may be subject to prudence review at the FERC.  While we believe that all such expenses have been and will be prudently incurred, we cannot predict the outcome of future reviews should they occur.

In addition, to the extent that new generation facilities are proposed or built to address the region’s energy needs, our planned transmission projects may be delayed or displaced, which could result in reduced transmission capital investments, reduced earnings, and limited future growth prospects.

Many of our currently planned transmission projects are expected to help alleviate identified reliability issues and to help reduce customers' costs.  However, if, due to further regulatory or other delays, the projected in-service date for one or more of these projects 


17



is delayed, there may be increased risk of failures in the existing electricity transmission system and supply interruptions or blackouts may occur which could have an adverse effect on our earnings.

The FERC has followed a policy of providing incentives designed to encourage the construction of new transmission facilities, including higher returns on equity and allowing facilities under construction to be placed in rate base before completion. Our projected earnings and growth could be adversely affected were FERC to reduce these incentives in the future below the level presently anticipated.

Increases in electric and gas prices, the continued economic slowdown, focus on conservation and self-generation by customers and changes in legislative and regulatory policy may adversely impact our business.

Energy consumption is significantly impacted by the general level of economic activity and cost of energy supply. Economic downturns such as the one which began in 2008, or periods of high energy supply costs typically lead to reductions in energy consumption and increased conservation, energy efficiency and self-generation on the part of customers and on legislative and regulatory policies.  This focus on conservation, energy efficiency and self-generation may result in a decline in electricity and gas sales in our service territories.  If any such declines were to occur without corresponding adjustments in rates, then our revenues would be reduced and our future growth prospects would be limited.  A period of prolonged economic weakness could impact customers’ ability to pay bills in a timely manner and increase customer bankruptcies, which may lead to increased bad debt expenses or other adverse effects on our results of operation
s, cash flows or financial position. 

In addition, Connecticut, New Hampshire and Massachusetts have each announced policies aimed at increased energy efficiency and conservation.  In connection with such policies, all three states have investigated revenue decoupling as a mechanism to align the interests of customers and utilities relative to conservation.  In Connecticut, the DPUC authorized decoupling via a rate design that is intended to recover proportionately greater distribution revenue through fixed charges, and proportionately less distribution revenue through usage-based charges.  In New Hampshire, the NHPUC conducted a decoupling docket and determined that utilities were free to propose decoupling in the context of a rate case and demonstrate the effect decoupling would have on its risk profile and ROE.  In Massachusetts, the DPU conducted a generic decoupling docket and as a result required each utility to include rate decoupling in its next rate case.  
At this time it is uncertain what mechanisms will ultimately be adopted by New Hampshire and Massachusetts and what impact these decoupling mechanisms will have on our companies.

Changes in regulatory and/or legislative policy could negatively impact regional transmission cost allocation rules.

The existing New England transmission tariff allocates the costs of transmission investment that provide regional benefits to all customers in New England.  As new investment in regional transmission infrastructure occurs in any one state, there is a sharing of their regional costs across New England.  This regional cost allocation is set forth in the Transmission Operating Agreement signed by all of the New England transmission owning utilities.  However, effective February 1, 2010, this agreement can be modified with the approval of a majority of the transmission owning utilities and FERC.  In addition, other parties, such as state regulators, may seek certain changes to the regional cost allocation, which could have adverse effects on our distribution companies' local rates.  However, the current cost allocation is presumed reasonable, and those other parties seeking change would have to show that the allocation is no longer 
just and reasonable and demonstrate to FERC why such changes are necessary.  We are working to retain the existing regional cost allocation treatment but cannot predict the actions of the states or utilities in the region.

Changes in regulatory or legislative policy or unfavorable outcomes in regulatory proceedings could jeopardize our full and/or timely recovery of costs incurred by our regulated companies.

Under state law, our utility companies are entitled to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their reasonable operating and capital costs, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests.  Each of these companies prepares and submits periodic rate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions for review and approval.  There is no assurance that these state commissions will approve the recovery of all costs prudently incurred by our regulated companies, such as for construction, operation and maintenance, as well as a return on investment on their respective regulated assets.  Increases in these costs, coupled with increases in fuel and energy prices could lead to consumer or regulatory resistance to the timely recovery of such prudently incurred costs, thereby adversely affecting our cash flows and results of operations.

In addition, CL&P and WMECO procure energy for a substantial portion of their customers’ needs via requests for proposal on an annual, semi-annual or quarterly basis.  CL&P and WMECO receive approvals of recovery of these contract prices from the DPUC and DPU, respectively.  While both regulatory agencies have consistently approved the solicitation processes, results and recovery of costs, management cannot predict the outcome of future solicitation efforts or the regulatory proceedings related thereto.

The energy requirements for PSNH are currently met primarily through PSNH's generation resources and fixed-price forward purchase contracts.  PSNH’s remaining energy needs are met primarily through spot market purchases.  Unplanned forced outages of its generating plants could increase the level of energy purchases needed by PSNH and therefore increase the market risk associated with procuring the necessary amount of energy to meet requirements.  PSNH recovers these costs through its ES rate, subject to a prudence review by the NHPUC.  We cannot predict the outcome of future regulatory proceedings related to recovery of these costs.



18



Judicial or regulatory proceedings or changes in regulatory or legislative policy could jeopardize completion of, or full recovery of costs incurred by PSNH in constructing, the Clean Air Project.

Pursuant to New Hampshire law, PSNH is building the Clean Air Project at its Merrimack Station in Bow, New Hampshire.  As a result of an increase in the estimated cost of the project from $250 million to $457 million, several parties initiated legal proceedings challenging the project.  These proceedings, or new legislation, regulations or judicial or regulatory interpretations of applicable law or regulations could result in the delay or cancelation of this project or add to its cost.  Any delay or cancelation of the project would adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted levels of earnings.  At this time, we cannot predict any legislative or regulatory changes or the outcome of the pending legal proceedings.

In addition, PSNH’s investment in the project after it is completed is subject to prudence review by the NHPUC at the time the project is placed in service.  A prudence disallowance of a material nature could adversely affect PSNH’s cash flows and results of operations. While we believe that all expenditures to date have been prudently incurred, we cannot predict the outcome of any prudency reviews should they occur.  Our projected earnings and growth could be adversely affected were the NHPUC to deny recovery of some or all of PSNH’s investment in the project.

The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our employees.  Retaining key employees and maintaining the ability to attract new employees are important to both our operational and financial performance.  We cannot guarantee that any member of our management or any key employee at the NU parent or subsidiary level will continue to serve in any capacity for any particular period of time.  In addition, a significant portion of our workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five to ten years.  Such highly skilled individuals cannot be quickly replaced due to the technically complex work they perform.  We have developed strategic workforce plans to identify key functions and proactively implement plans to assure a ready and qualified workforce, but cannot predict the impact of these plans on our ability to hire and re
tain key employees.

Grid disturbances, severe weather, or acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact our business.

Because our generation and transmission systems are part of an interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of possible loss of business continuity due to a disruption or black-out caused by an event (severe storm, generator or transmission facility outage, or terrorist action) on an interconnected system or the actions of another utility.  In addition, we are subject to the risk that acts of war or terrorism, including cyber-terrorism could negatively impact the operation of our system.  Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Severe weather, such as ice and snow storms, hurricanes and other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage which may require us to incur additional costs that may not be recoverable from customers.  The cost of repairing damage to our operating subsidiaries' facilities and the potential disruption of their operations due to storms, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could be substantial.  The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period, such as during the hot summer months.

Market performance or changes in assumptions could require us to make significant contributions to our pension and other post-employment benefit plans.

We provide a defined benefit pension plan and other post-retirement benefits for a substantial number of employees, former employees and retirees.  The measurement of our expected future pension obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, most of which relate to factors beyond our control.  These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit improvements, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants.  If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our future costs could increase significantly.  In addition, various factors, including underperformance of plan investments, could increase the amount of contributions required to fund our pension plan in the future.  Large funding requirements, when combined with the financing requirements of our construction program, could impact the timing and amount of future equity and debt financing
s and would negatively affect our financial position, cash flows and results of operations.  

Costs of compliance with environmental regulations, including climate change legislation, may increase and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Our subsidiaries' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations which govern, among other things, air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste.  Compliance with these requirements requires us to incur significant costs relating to environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance and upgrading of facilities, remediation and permitting.  The costs of compliance with existing legal requirements or legal requirements not yet adopted may increase in the future.  An increase in such costs, unless promptly recovered, could have an adverse impact on our business and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

In addition, global climate change issues have received an increased focus from federal and state governments, which could potentially lead to additional rules and regulations that impact how we operate our business, both in terms of the power plants we own 


19



and operate as well as general utility operations.  Although we would expect that any costs of these rules and regulations would be recovered from customers, their impact on energy use by customers and the ultimate impact on our business would be dependent upon the specific rules and regulations adopted and cannot be determined at this time.  The impact of these additional costs to customers could lead to a further reduction in energy consumption resulting in a decline in electricity and gas sales in our service territories, which would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

Any failure by us to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if due to factors beyond our control, or reinterpretations of existing requirements, could also increase costs.  Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us.  Revised or additional laws could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs which may not be fully recoverable in distribution company rates.  The cost impact of any such laws, rules or regulations would be dependent upon the specific requirements adopted and cannot be determined at this time.  For further information, see Item 1, Business - "Other Regulatory and Environmental Matters" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

As a holding company with no revenue-generating operations, NU parent is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the regulated companies, its bank facility, and its ability to access the long-term debt and equity capital markets.

NU parent is a holding company and as such, has no revenue-generating operations of its own.  Its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with the debt service obligations on its debt and to pay dividends on its common shares is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily the regulated companies; the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or to repay funds due NU parent; and/or NU parent’s ability to access its credit facility or the long-term debt and equity capital markets.  Prior to funding NU parent, the regulated companies have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, their respective debt service, preferred dividends (in the case of CL&P) and obligations to trade creditors.  Additionally, the regulated companies could retain their free cash flow to fund their capital expenditures in lieu of receiving equity contributions from NU 
parent.  Should the regulated companies not be able to pay dividends or repay funds due to NU parent or if NU parent cannot access its bank facilities or the long-term debt and equity capital markets, NU parent’s ability to pay interest and dividends would be restricted.

Item 1B