 — Risk Factors” for additional detail.9Table of ContentsPharmacy Benefit Management Regulation Generally. Certain federal and state laws and regulations affect or may affect aspects of our PBM business. Among the laws and regulations that may impact our business are the following:Federal Healthcare Reform. In March 2010, the federal government enacted the Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (“Health Reform Laws”). The Health Reform Laws include numerous changes to many aspects of the United States healthcare system, including, but not limited to, additional enforcement mechanisms and rules related to healthcare fraud and abuse enforcement activities, health plan coverage mandates, additional rules and obligations for health insurance providers, certain PBM transparency requirements related to the new healthcare insurance exchanges and expanded healthcare coverage for more Americans. While long-term impacts remain unclear with respect to the implementation of certain components of the Health Reform Laws and related regulatory guidance, the Health Reform Laws impact our business in a variety of ways. Known impacts include, but are not limited to, an increase in utilization of the pharmacy benefit by a newly enrolled population with an unknown risk profile, additional compliance obligations stemming from increased state and federal government involvement in the healthcare marketplace, shifting claims liability from plan sponsors to third-party administrators for certain women’s preventive benefits, increased data reporting obligations to support health plan issuers and insurers operating in the healthcare exchanges, the impact of general market reforms prohibiting the use of many factors traditionally used to establish premiums and adjustments implemented by health plan sponsors and health insurance providers in response to availability of new insurance products and other marketplace changes arising in connection with the Health Reform Laws.Medicare Part D. We participate in various ways in the federal Medicare Part D program created under MMA, and its implementing regulations and sub-regulatory program guidance (the “Medicare Part D Rules”) issued by CMS. Through our licensed insurance subsidiaries (i.e., Express Scripts Insurance Company (“ESIC”), Medco Containment Life Insurance Company and Medco Containment Insurance Company of New York), we sponsor Medicare Part D PDPs offering Medicare prescription drug coverage and services to Medicare Part D beneficiaries. We also, through our core PBM business, provide Medicare Part D-related products and services to other Medicare Part D PDP sponsors, Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plans and other employers and clients offering Medicare Part D benefits to Medicare Part D eligible beneficiaries.Medicare Part B and Medicaid. We participate in the Medicare Part B program, which covers certain costs for services provided by Medicare participating physicians and suppliers and durable medical equipment. We also participate in many state Medicaid programs directly or indirectly through our clients who are Medicaid managed care contractors. We also perform certain Medicaid subrogation services for clients, which are regulated by federal and state laws.Anti-Kickback Laws. Subject to certain exceptions and “safe harbors,” the federal anti-kickback statute generally prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully paying or offering any payment or other remuneration to induce a person to purchase, lease, order or arrange for (or recommend purchasing, leasing or ordering) items (including prescription drugs) or services reimbursable in whole or in part under Medicare, Medicaid or another federal healthcare program. Several states also have similar laws, some of which apply similar anti-kickback prohibitions to items or services reimbursable by non-governmental payors. Sanctions for violating these federal and state anti-kickback laws may include criminal and civil fines and exclusion from participation in the federal and state healthcare programs.The federal anti-kickback statute has been interpreted broadly by courts, the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) within the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), and administrative bodies. Because of the federal statute’s broad scope, federal regulations establish certain “safe harbors” from liability. A practice that does not fall within a safe harbor is not necessarily unlawful, but may be subject to scrutiny and challenge. Anti-kickback laws have been cited as a partial basis, along with state consumer protection laws described below, for investigations and multi-state settlements relating to financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to pharmacies in connection with “product conversion” programs.There are other anti-kickback laws that may be applicable, such as the Public Contracts Anti-kickback Act, the ERISA Health Plan Anti-kickback Statute and various other state anti-kickback restrictions.Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law. The federal civil monetary penalty statute provides for civil monetary penalties against any person who gives something of value to a Medicare or Medicaid program beneficiary the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular provider for Medicare or Medicaid items or services. Under this law, our wholly-owned home delivery, specialty pharmacies, infusion pharmacies and home health providers are restricted from offering certain items of value to influence a Medicare or Medicaid patient’s use of services. The Health Reform Laws also include several new civil monetary provisions, such as penalties for the failure to report and return a known overpayment and failure to grant timely access to the OIG under certain circumstances.10Table of ContentsPrompt Pay Laws. Under Medicare Part D and certain state laws, some of which also govern the Public Exchanges, PBMs and many of our health plan clients, we may be obligated to pay retail pharmacy providers within established time periods that may be shorter than existing contracted terms and/or via electronic transfer instead of by check. Changes that require faster payment may have a negative impact on our cash flow from operations. False Claims Act and Related Criminal Provisions. The federal False Claims Act (the “False Claims Act”) imposes civil penalties for knowingly making or causing to be made false claims or false records or statements with respect to governmental programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, in order to obtain reimbursement or failure to return overpayments. Private individuals may bring qui tam or “whistle blower” suits against providers under the False Claims Act, which authorizes the payment of a portion of any recovery to the individual bringing suit. The Health Reform Laws also amended the federal anti-kickback laws to state any claim submitted to a federal or state healthcare program which violates the anti-kickback law is also a false claim under the False Claims Act. The False Claims Act generally provides for the imposition of civil penalties and for treble damages, resulting in the possibility of substantial financial penalties. Criminal statutes similar to the False Claims Act provide that if a corporation is convicted of presenting a claim or making a statement it knows to be false, fictitious or fraudulent to any federal agency it may be fined. Conviction under these statutes may also result in exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. Some states have also enacted laws similar to the False Claims Act which may include criminal penalties, substantial fines and treble damages.Government Procurement Regulations. As described above, we have a contract with the DoD, which subjects us to all of the applicable Federal Acquisition Regulations (“FAR”) and Department of Defense FAR Supplement which govern federal government contracts. Further, there are other federal and state laws applicable to our DoD arrangement and other clients that may be subject to government procurement regulations. In addition, certain of our clients participate as contracting carriers in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program which is administered by the Office of Personnel Management and contains various PBM standards, including PBM transparency standards.Antitrust. The antitrust laws generally prohibit competitors from fixing prices, dividing markets and boycotting competitors, regardless of the size or market power of the companies involved. Further, antitrust laws generally prohibit other conduct found to restrain competition unreasonably, such as certain attempts to tie or bundle services together and certain exclusive dealing arrangements.ERISA Regulation. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) regulates certain aspects of employee pension and health benefit plans, including self-funded corporate health plans with respect to which we have agreements to provide PBM services. We believe the conduct of our business is not generally subject to the fiduciary obligations of ERISA. However, there can be no assurance the United States Department of Labor (the “DOL”), which is the agency that enforces ERISA, would not assert the fiduciary obligations imposed by ERISA apply to certain aspects of our operations or that courts would not reach such a ruling in private ERISA litigation.In addition to its fiduciary provisions, federal law related to ERISA health plans imposes civil and criminal liability on service providers to health plans and certain other persons if certain forms of illegal remuneration are made or received. These provisions of ERISA are similar, but not identical, to the healthcare anti-kickback statutes described above, although ERISA lacks the statutory and regulatory “safe harbor” exceptions incorporated into the healthcare statutes. Like the healthcare anti-kickback laws, the corresponding provisions of ERISA are broadly written and their application to particular cases is often uncertain.Employee benefit plans subject to ERISA are subject to certain rules, published by the DOL, relating to annual Form 5500 reporting obligations. The rules include certain reporting requirements for direct and indirect compensation received by plan service providers such as PBMs. However, in February 2010, the DOL issued two frequently asked questions that provide discount and rebate revenue paid to PBMs by drug manufacturers generally need not be reported on a plan’s Form 5500 as indirect compensation. Also, self-funded plans which are part of Section 125 “cafeteria plans” are currently exempt from such compensation disclosure.In December 2010, the DOL held a public hearing regarding the disclosure obligations of service providers to welfare plans under section 408(b)(2) of ERISA. At this time, we are unable to predict whether regulations will be issued, the form of any such regulations or the possible impact of any such changes on our business practices.State Fiduciary Legislation. Statutes have been introduced in several states that purport to declare a PBM is a fiduciary with respect to its clients. We believe the fiduciary obligations such statutes would impose would be similar, but not identical, to the scope of fiduciary obligations under ERISA. To date only two jurisdictions—Maine and the District of Columbia—have enacted such a statute. Our trade association, Pharmaceutical Care Management Association (“PCMA”), filed suits in federal courts in Maine and the District of Columbia alleging, among other things, the statutes are preempted by ERISA with respect to welfare plans subject to ERISA. In 2011, Maine’s fiduciary law was repealed, although the United States Court 11Table of Contentsof Appeals for the First Circuit previously held the law not preempted by ERISA. In the District of Columbia case, the court granted in part PCMA’s motion for summary judgment finding the District of Columbia law was preempted by ERISA and that decision was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Widespread enactment of such statutes (if not preempted by ERISA) could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Consumer Protection Laws. Most states have consumer protection laws that have been the basis for investigations and multi-state settlements relating to financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to retail pharmacies in connection with drug switching programs. Such statutes have also been cited as the basis for claims against PBMs either in civil litigation or pursuant to investigations by state Attorneys General. Network Access Legislation. A majority of states now have some form of legislation affecting our ability, or our clients’ ability, to limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove a provider from the network. Such legislation may require us or our clients to admit any retail pharmacy willing to meet the plan’s price and other terms for network participation (“any willing provider” legislation) or may provide that a provider may not be removed from a network except in compliance with certain procedures (“due process” legislation). We have not been materially affected by these statutes.Certain states have enacted legislation prohibiting certain PBM clients from imposing additional co-payments, deductibles, limitation on benefits, or other conditions (“Conditions”) on covered individuals utilizing a retail pharmacy when the same Conditions are not otherwise imposed on covered individuals utilizing home delivery pharmacies. However, the legislation requires the retail pharmacy agree to the same reimbursement amounts and terms and conditions as are imposed on the home delivery pharmacies. An increase in the number of prescriptions filled at retail pharmacies may have a negative impact on the amount of prescriptions filled through home delivery. It is anticipated additional states will consider similar legislation and we cannot predict which states will adopt such legislation or what effect it will have, if any.Legislation Affecting Plan Design. Some states have enacted legislation that prohibits managed care plan sponsors from implementing certain restrictive benefit plan design features, and many states have introduced legislation to regulate various aspects of managed care plans, including provisions relating to the pharmacy benefit. For example, some states, under so-called “freedom of choice” legislation, provide members of the plan may not be required to use network providers, but must instead be provided with benefits even if they choose to use non-network providers. Other states have enacted legislation purporting to prohibit health plans from offering members financial incentives for use of home delivery pharmacies. Medicare and some states have issued guidance and regulations which limit our ability to fill or refill prescriptions electronically submitted by a physician to our home delivery pharmacy without first obtaining consent from the patient. Such restrictions generate additional costs and limit our ability to maximize efficiencies which could otherwise be gained through the electronic prescription and automatic refill processes. Legislation has been introduced in some states to prohibit or restrict therapeutic intervention, or to require coverage of all FDA approved drugs. Other states mandate coverage of certain benefits or conditions, and require health plan coverage of specific drugs if deemed medically necessary by the prescribing physician. States are also standardizing the process for, and restricting the use of, utilization management rules and shortening the time frames within which prescription drug prior authorization determinations must be made. Such legislation does not generally apply to us directly, but may apply to certain of our clients, such as managed care organizations and health insurers. If such legislation were to become widely adopted and broad in scope, it could have the effect of limiting the economic benefits achievable through pharmacy benefit management.Legislation and Regulation Affecting Drug Prices. Some states have adopted so-called “most favored nation” legislation providing a pharmacy participating in the state Medicaid program must give the state the best price the pharmacy makes available to any third-party plan. Such legislation may adversely affect our ability to negotiate discounts in the future from network pharmacies.In the past two years, states have also started to enact statutes regulating the use of Maximum Allowable Cost (“MAC”) pricing. These statutes, referred to as “MAC Transparency Laws,” generally require PBMs to disclose specific information related to MAC pricing to pharmacies and provide certain appeal rights for pharmacies. MAC Transparency Laws also restrict the application of MAC and may require operational changes to maintain compliance with the law. These laws have the potential to negatively impact Express Scripts in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, increasing administrative burden and decreasing flexibility in setting and managing MAC pricing. As more states adopt MAC Transparency Laws, the impact of these laws may continue to grow.The federal Medicaid rebate program requires participating drug manufacturers to provide rebates on all drugs reimbursed through state Medicaid programs, including through Medicaid managed care organizations. Manufacturers of brand name products must provide a rebate equivalent to the greater of (a) 23.1% of the average manufacturer price (“AMP”) paid by retail community pharmacies or by wholesalers for certain innovator drugs distributed to retail community pharmacies, or (b) the difference between AMP and the “best price” available to essentially any customer other than the Medicaid program and 12Table of Contentscertain other government programs, with certain exceptions. We negotiate rebates with drug manufacturers and, in certain circumstances, sell services to drug manufacturers. Investigations have been commenced by certain governmental entities which call into question whether a drug’s “best price” was properly calculated and reported with respect to rebates paid by the manufacturers to the Medicaid programs. We are not responsible for such calculations, reports or payments. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to negotiate rebates with, or sell services to, drug manufacturers will not be materially adversely affected by such investigations or regulations in the future.Regulation of Financial Risk Plans. Fee-for-service prescription drug plans generally are not subject to financial regulation by the states. However, if a PBM offers to provide prescription drug coverage on a capitated basis or otherwise accepts material financial risk in providing the benefit, various state and federal laws may regulate the PBM or its subsidiaries. Such laws may require, among other things, that the party at risk establish reserves or otherwise demonstrate financial responsibility. Laws that may apply in such cases include, for example, insurance laws, managed care organization laws and limited prepaid health service plan laws. These may apply, for example, to our subsidiaries (i.e., ESIC, Medco Containment Life Insurance Company and Medco Containment Insurance Company of New York) and other subsidiary insurance businesses which sponsor risk-based Medicare Part D PDPs or commercial “wrap” EGWP products pursuant to contracts with CMS. ESIC, Medco Containment Life Insurance Company and Medco Containment Insurance Company of New York are required to be licensed insurance companies, and are, therefore, regulated by various state departments of insurance. As such, to maintain licensure as an insurance company, these licensed subsidiaries are required to adhere to state insurance requirements related to, for example, enterprise risk management, beneficiary protections, asset management and financial reserves.Pharmacy Regulation. Our home delivery, specialty and infusion pharmacies are licensed to do business as a pharmacy in the state in which they are located. Most of the states into which we deliver pharmaceuticals have laws that require out-of-state home delivery pharmacies to register with, or be licensed by, the board of pharmacy or similar regulatory body in the state. These states generally permit the pharmacy to follow the laws of the state in which the home delivery service is located, although some states require compliance with certain laws in that state. We believe we have registered each of our pharmacies in every state in which such registration is required and we comply in all material respects with all required laws and regulations. In addition, our pharmacists and nurses are licensed in those states where we believe their activity requires it. Our various pharmacy facilities also maintain certain Medicare and state Medicaid provider numbers as pharmacies providing services under these programs. Participation in these programs requires our pharmacies to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations, and exposes the pharmacies to various changes the federal and state governments may impose regarding reimbursement methodologies and amounts to be paid to participating providers under these programs. In addition, several of our pharmacy facilities are participating providers under Medicare Part D and, as a condition to becoming a participating provider under Medicare Part D, the pharmacies are required to adhere to certain requirements applicable to the Medicare Part D program.Other statutes and regulations affect our home delivery, specialty and infusion pharmacy operations, including the federal and state anti-kickback laws and the federal civil monetary penalty law described above. Federal and state statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and the dispensing of controlled substances. The Federal Trade Commission requires mail order sellers of goods generally to engage in truthful advertising, to stock a reasonable supply of the product to be sold, to fill mail orders within thirty days and to provide clients with refunds when appropriate. The United States Postal Service also has significant statutory authority to restrict the delivery of drugs and medicines through the mail.Other Licensure Laws. Many states have licensure or registration laws governing PBMs and certain types of managed care organizations and insurance companies, including, but not limited to, preferred provider organizations, third-party administrators and companies that provide utilization review services. The scope of these laws differs from state to state, and the application of such laws to the activities of PBMs and insurance companies is often unclear. We have registered under such laws in those states in which we have concluded such registration is required either due to our various PBM services or the activities of our licensed insurance subsidiaries. Moreover, we have received full accreditation for URAC Pharmacy Benefit Management version 2.0 Standards, which includes quality standards for drug utilization management. In addition, accreditation agencies’ requirements for managed care organizations such as the National Committee on Quality Assurance and Medicare Part D regulations for Medicare Part D PDP and Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plans may affect the services we provide to such organizations.Legislation regulating PBM activities in a comprehensive manner has been and continues to be considered in a number of states. In the past, certain organizations, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), an organization of state insurance regulators, have considered proposals to regulate PBMs and/or certain PBM activities, such as formulary development and utilization management. While the actions of the NAIC would not have the force of law, they may influence states to adopt model legislation that such organizations promulgate. Certain states have adopted PBM registration and/or disclosure laws and we have registered under such laws and are complying with applicable disclosure requirements. In 13Table of Contentsaddition to registration laws, some states have adopted legislation mandating disclosure of various aspects of our financial practices, including those concerning pharmaceutical company revenue, as well as prescribing processes for prescription switching programs and client and provider audit terms. Other states are considering similar legislation, and as more states consider these bills it will be difficult to manage the distinct requirements of each.FDA Regulations. The Health Reform Laws allow a regulatory approval pathway for biosimilars (alternatively known as generics) for biological products and provide an innovator biological product will be granted 12 years of exclusivity. At this time, we are unable to fully evaluate the impact of the changes to biosimilars to our business.Our clinical research activities are also subject to a number of complex and stringent regulations affecting the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. We offer services relating to conduct of clinical trials and the preparation of marketing applications and are required to comply with applicable regulatory requirements governing, among other things, the design, conduct, performance, monitoring, auditing, recording, analysis and reporting of these trials. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) governs these activities pursuant to the agency’s Good Clinical Practice regulations.HIPAA and Other Data Privacy and Security Legislation. Many of our activities involve the receipt or use of confidential health and other personal information. In addition, we use aggregated and anonymized data for our own research and analysis purposes and, in some cases, provide access to such data to pharmaceutical manufacturers and third-party data aggregators. Various federal and state laws, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), regulate and restrict the use, disclosure and security of certain personal information, including health information, and new legislation is proposed from time to time in various states.We are required to comply with certain aspects of the privacy, security and transaction standard regulations under HIPAA. The privacy regulations included as part of HIPAA impose restrictions on the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information by certain entities. The HIPAA security regulations relate access to and disclosure of protected health information when it is maintained or transmitted electronically. Other HIPAA requirements relate to electronic transaction standards and code sets for processing of pharmacy claims. As part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act signed into law in February 2009, Congress adopted the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”). In January 2013, HHS announced a new rule to strengthen the privacy and security protections established under HIPAA, the final Omnibus Rule (the “Omnibus Rule”). The Omnibus Rule enhances patients’ privacy protections, provides patients new rights with respect to their health information and strengthens the government’s ability to enforce the law. The changes expand many of the privacy and security requirements to business associates, such as contractors and subcontractors. Business associates may also be liable for increased penalties for noncompliance. The Omnibus Rule significantly changes the breach notification requirements provided by HITECH. Furthermore, the Omnibus Rule sets new limits on how information is used and disclosed for marketing and fundraising purposes, and prohibits the sale of a patient’s health information without his or her permission. As with many other companies subject to HIPAA, the Omnibus Rule may have significant operational and legal consequences for our business.We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with HIPAA and other state privacy laws. To date, no patient privacy laws have been adopted that materially impact our ability to provide PBM and pharmacy services, but there can be no assurance federal or state governments will not enact legislation, impose restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Other Business Operations Services. Many of the laws and regulations cited above with respect to our PBM activities also apply with respect to our various Other Business Operations services. Of particular relevance are the federal and state anti-kickback laws, state pharmacy regulations and HIPAA, which are described above. In addition, as a condition to conducting our wholesale business, we must maintain various permits and licenses with the appropriate state and federal agencies and we are subject to various wholesale distributor laws that regulate the conduct of wholesale distributors, including, but not limited to, maintaining pedigree papers in certain instances.Service Marks and TrademarksWe, and our subsidiaries, have registered certain service marks including “EXPRESS SCRIPTS®,” “MEDCO®,” “ACCREDO®,” “CONSUMEROLOGY®,” “UBC®,” “MY RX CHOICES®,” “RATIONALMED®,” “SCREENRX®,” “EXPRESS ALLIANCE®,” “EXPRESS SCRIPTS MEDICARE®,” “EXPRESS ADVANTAGE NETWORK®,” “HEALTH DECISION SCIENCE®” and “THERAPEUTIC RESOURCE CENTER®” with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Our rights to these marks will continue so long as we comply with the usage, renewal filings and other legal requirements relating to the usage and renewal of service marks.14Table of ContentsInsuranceOur PBM operations, including the dispensing of pharmaceutical products by our home delivery pharmacies, our Other Business Operations, including the distribution of specialty drugs, and the services rendered in connection with our disease management operations, may subject us to litigation and liability for damages. Commercial insurance coverage may be difficult to obtain and cost prohibitive, particularly for certain types of claims. We may maintain significant self-insured retentions where believed to be most appropriate and cost effective. We have established certain self-insurance accruals to cover potential claims. There can be no assurance we will be able to maintain certain types of liability insurance coverage in the future or that such insurance coverage, together with our self-insurance accruals, will be adequate to cover potential future claims. A claim, or claims, not covered by insurance or in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we employed approximately 29,500 and 29,900 employees, respectively, worldwide. Approximately 11.0% of the employees are members of collective bargaining units at December 31, 2014. Specifically, we employ members of the following unions:•Service Employees International Union•American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees•United Food and Commercial Workers Union•United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial & Service Workers International Union, American Federation of Labor – Congress of Industrial Organizations•Association of Managed Care Pharmacists•Guild for Professional Pharmacists•International Union of Operating Engineers•Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, United Food and Commercial WorkersSix collective bargaining agreements covering these employees will expire at various dates through December 2015. Executive Officers of the RegistrantOur executive officers and their ages as of February 23, 2015 are as follows: Name Age PositionGeorge Paz 59 Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerTimothy Wentworth 54 PresidentJames Havel 60 Executive Vice President and Interim Chief Financial OfficerKeith Ebling 46 Executive Vice President and General CounselChristine Houston 52 Senior Vice President, OperationsSteven Miller 57 Senior Vice President and Chief Medical OfficerDavid Norton 59 Senior Vice President, Supply ChainDavid Queller 46 Senior Vice President, Sales and Account ManagementGlen Stettin 51 Senior Vice President, Clinical Research and New SolutionsSara Wade 45 Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerGary Wimberly 53 Senior Vice President and Chief Information OfficerChristopher Knibb 45 Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerMr. Paz was elected a director of the Company in January 2004 and has served as Chairman of the Board since May 2006. Mr. Paz assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer on April 1, 2005 and also served as President from October 2003 to February 2014. Mr. Paz joined Express Scripts and was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in January 1998 and continued to serve as Chief Financial Officer following his election to the office of President until his successor joined Express Scripts in April 2004.15Table of ContentsMr. Wentworth was named President of the Company in February 2014. From April 2012 to February 2014 he served as Senior Vice President and President, Sales and Account Management. Mr. Wentworth joined Express Scripts when the company merged with Medco in April 2012. At Medco, he served as Group President, National and Key Accounts from October 2008 to April 2012, as Chief Executive Officer of Medco’s Accredo Health Group subsidiary from March 2006 to October 2008 and as Group President - National Accounts from August 2003 to March 2006. Mr. Havel was named Executive Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer effective January 2015. Prior to joining Express Scripts, Mr. Havel served as Chief Financial Officer of Major Brands Holdings, a privately held beverage distribution company, from April 2012 to December 2014. Mr. Havel owned and operated Havel Associates, LLC, an independent financial consulting firm serving both private and public companies from July 2010 to April 2012. Mr. Havel also spent approximately 34 years with Ernst & Young LLP, beginning his career in 1976. Mr. Ebling was named Executive Vice President and General Counsel, a role which also includes responsibility for strategy and business development, in December 2008. Mr. Ebling also served as Secretary from December 2008 to May 2013, as Vice President of Business Development from October 2007 to December 2008, and as Vice President and General Counsel of our CuraScript subsidiary from January 2005 to October 2007.Ms. Houston was named Senior Vice President, Operations in February 2014. From February 2012 to February 2014, she served as Senior Vice President, Pharma and Retail Relations and from January 2009 to February 2012, she served as Vice President/General Manager, Operations. Ms. Houston joined Express Scripts in September 1997 and has served in various leadership positions in Information Technology and Operations.Dr. Miller was named Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer in October 2007. Dr. Miller joined Express Scripts in April 2005 as Vice President, Research and Product.Mr. Norton was named Senior Vice President, Supply Chain in February 2014. Previously, Mr. Norton served as Vice President, Strategy, Integration and Business Development from October 2007 to February 2014, as Vice President, IT Strategy and Planning and Chief Technology Officer from January 2004 to October 2007, as Vice President, Office of Planning and Management Support from January 2003 to January 2004 and as Vice President, PMO from January 2002 to January 2004.Mr. Queller was named Senior Vice President, Sales and Account Management in July 2014. Prior to joining Express Scripts, he served in a number of senior leadership positions at Aetna, Inc., including Senior Vice President, National Accounts from January 2013 to June 2014 and President of various national regions from May 2005 to January 2013. Mr. Queller joined Aetna Inc. in October 2000.Dr. Stettin was named Senior Vice President, Clinical Research and New Solutions in April 2012. Dr. Stettin joined Express Scripts when the Company merged with Medco in April 2012, where he previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer from December 2010 to April 2012 and became Senior Vice President in July 2003. He held a number of leadership positions in several functional areas, including product, technology, clinical and operations, after joining Medco in 1995.Ms. Wade was named Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer in December 2010. Prior to that, she served as Vice President, Compensation and Benefits from June 2009 to December 2010. Previously, she served at Coca Cola Enterprises as Corporate Vice President, Compensation and Benefits from April 2008 to June 2009, at Patriot Coal Corporation as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from November 2007 to April 2008.Mr. Wimberly was named Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in November 2007. Mr. Wimberly joined Express Scripts in October 2004 and served as Vice President, Information and Technology until November 2007.Mr. Knibb joined Express Scripts in February 2013 as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Express Scripts, Mr. Knibb served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer of Brightstar Corporation from June 2012 to February 2013. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at Patriot Coal Corporation from October 2011 to June 2012 and as Vice President, Controller from September 2007 to October 2011. Patriot Coal Corporation filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition in July 2012 and emerged in December 2013.Available InformationWe make available through our website (www.express-scripts.com) access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports (when applicable) and other filings with the SEC. Such access is free of charge and is available as soon as reasonably practicable after such information is filed with the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers filing electronically with the SEC (which includes us). Information included on our website is not part of this annual report.16Table of ContentsForward-Looking Statements and Associated RisksInformation we have included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and information which may be contained in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“the SEC”) and our press releases or other public statements, contains or may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements of our plans, objectives, expectations (financial or otherwise) or intentions.Our forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected or suggested in any forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Any number of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the risks associated with the following:STANDARD OPERATING FACTORS•our ability to remain profitable in a very competitive marketplace depends upon our continued ability to attract and retain clients while maintaining our margins, to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, and to develop and cross-sell new products and services to our existing clients•our failure to anticipate and appropriately adapt to changes or trends within the rapidly changing healthcare industry•changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, or the enactment of new laws, rules or regulations, which apply to our business practices (past, present or future) or require us to spend significant resources in order to comply or to make significant changes to our business operations•changes to the healthcare industry designed to manage healthcare costs or alter healthcare financing practices or changes to government policies in general•uncertainties regarding the implementation of Health Reform Laws•general economic conditions•a failure in the security or stability of our technology infrastructure, or the infrastructure of one or more of our key vendors•a significant failure or disruption in service within our operations or the operations of our vendors•our failure to execute on, or other issues arising under, certain key client contracts•significant changes within the pharmacy provider marketplace, including the loss of or adverse change in our relationship with one or more key pharmacy providers•changes relating to Medicare Part D, our failure to comply with CMS regulatory requirements, our failure to comply with CMS contractual requirements applicable to us as a Medicare Part D PDP sponsor or our failure to otherwise execute on our strategies related to Medicare Part D•our failure to effectively execute on strategic transactions or successfully integrate the business operations or achieve the anticipated benefits from any acquired businesses•a failure to adequately protect confidential health information received and used in our business operations•the impact of our debt service obligations on the availability of funds for other business purposes, the terms of and our required compliance with covenants relating to our indebtedness and our access to the credit markets in general•the delay, reduction, suspension or cancellation of government spending or appropriations relating to our business•the termination, loss, or an unfavorable modification, of our relationship with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers, or the significant reduction in payments made or discounts provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers•changes in drug pricing or industry pricing benchmarks•results in pending and future litigation, investigations or other proceedings which could subject us to significant monetary damages or penalties and/or require us to change our business practices, or the costs incurred in connection with such proceedings17Table of Contents•our failure to attract and retain talented employees, or to manage succession and retention for our Chief Executive Officer or other key executives•other risks described from time to time in our filings with the SECThese and other relevant factors, including those risk factors in “Part I —  — Risk FactorsGeneral Risk FactorsWe operate in a very competitive industry, which could compress our margins and impair our ability to attract and retain clients. Our failure to effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors could magnify the impact of the competitive environment.We operate in a highly competitive environment and an industry subject to significant market pressures brought about by customer demands, legislative and regulatory developments and other market factors. We must remain competitive in order to attract new clients and retain and cross-sell additional products and services to our existing clients. Strong competition in the PBM marketplace has generated greater client demand for lower pricing, increased revenue sharing and enhanced product and service offerings. These competitive factors have historically applied pressure on our operating margins and caused many PBMs, including us, to reduce the prices charged for core products and services while sharing a greater portion of the formulary fees and related revenues received from pharmaceutical manufacturers with clients. We cannot assume positive trends such as lower drug purchasing costs, increased generic usage, drug price inflation, increased rebates, favorable demographics and specialty growth would offset these pressures in the future. Our inability to maintain these positive trends, or failure to identify and implement new ways to mitigate pricing pressures, could negatively impact our ability to attract or retain clients or sell additional services, which could negatively impact our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.In addition, our clients are well informed and organized and can easily move between us and our competitors as our client contracts are generally three years. Many clients work through knowledgeable consultants and our larger clients typically seek competing bids from our competitors prior to contract expiration. These factors together with the impact of competitive pressures could make it difficult for us to attract new clients, retain existing clients and cross-sell additional services, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.To succeed in the highly competitive PBM marketplace, it is imperative we maintain a strong reputation as well as differentiate our business offerings by innovating and delivering products and services that demonstrate enhanced value to our clients, particularly in response to market changes from public policy. The negative reputational impact of a significant event, including a failure to execute on client contracts or to successfully operate the complex structure of our business or otherwise innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate greater value to our clients, could therefore affect our ability to grow and retain profitable clients which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.The delivery of healthcare-related products and services is an evolving and rapidly changing industry. Our failure to anticipate or appropriately adapt to changes or trends within the industry could have a negative impact on our ability to compete and adversely affect our business and results of operations.We have designed our business model to compete within the current industry structure. Our client contracts are generally three years and our pharmaceutical manufacturer and retail contracts are typically non-exclusive and terminable on relatively short notice by either party. Any significant shifts in the structure of the PBM industry or the healthcare products and services industry in general could alter the industry dynamics and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain clients. Such industry shifts could result from, among other things: a large intra- or inter-industry merger, strategic alliances, a new entrant (including the government), a new or alternative business model, a general decrease in drug utilization, changes in the United States Postal Service or the consolidation of shipping carriers, an increased ability of consultants to influence the market, increased drug acquisition cost, changes in the generic drug market or the failure of new generic drugs to come to market, rapid technological shifts or the necessary changes or unintended consequences of the federal Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Reform Laws. Our failure to anticipate or appropriately adapt to changes in the industry could negatively impact our competitive position and adversely affect our business and results of operations.18Table of ContentsIn addition, the managed care industry has undergone periods of substantial consolidation and may continue to consolidate in the future. If one or more of our managed care clients is acquired, and the acquiring entity is not a client, then we may be unable to retain all or a portion of the acquired business. If such acquisitions, individually or in the aggregate, are material, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We operate in a complex and rapidly evolving regulatory environment. Changes in or failure to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, or the enactment of new laws, rules or regulations, could require us to make significant changes to our business operations or result in the imposition of fines or penalties. Further, we may be required to spend significant resources in order to comply with new, changing or existing laws, rules and regulations. Numerous state and federal laws, rules and regulations affect our business and operations and include, among other things, the following:•healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, which prohibit certain types of payments and referrals as well as false claims made in connection with health benefit programs•ERISA and related regulations, which regulate many aspects of healthcare plan arrangements•state legislation regulating PBMs or imposing fiduciary status on PBMs•consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations•network pharmacy access laws, including “any willing provider” and “due process” legislation, that affect aspects of our pharmacy network contracts•wholesale distributor laws•legislation imposing benefit plan design restrictions and requirements, which limit how our clients can design their drug benefit plans•various licensure laws, such as managed care and third-party administrator licensure laws•drug pricing legislation, including “most favored nation” pricing•pharmacy laws and regulations, including delivery channels•state insurance regulations applicable to our insurance subsidiaries•information privacy and security laws and regulations, including those under the HIPAA omnibus rule•Medicare prescription drug program participation requirements including coverage standards and beneficiary protections•other Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement regulations, including subrogation•the Health Reform Laws, including regulations applicable to clients operating qualified health plans through the state and federal marketplace (“Health Insurance Exchange”)•federal laws related to our Department of Defense arrangement•federal antitrust laws related to our pharmacy, pharmaceutical manufacturer and client relationships•the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act•international lawsThese and other regulatory matters are described in more detail under “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Government Regulation and Compliance” above.We believe we operate our business in substantial compliance with all existing material legal requirements applicable to us. However, significant uncertainties exist regarding the application of many of these legal requirements to our business. From time to time, state and federal law enforcement agencies and regulatory agencies have initiated investigations or litigation involving certain aspects of our business or our competitors’ businesses and, consequently, we cannot provide any assurance that one or more of these agencies will not interpret or apply these legal requirements in a manner adverse to our business, or, if there is an enforcement action brought against us, that our interpretation would prevail. In addition, there are numerous proposed healthcare laws, rules and regulations at the federal and state levels, many of which could materially affect aspects of our business or adversely affect our results of operations. We are unable to predict whether additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives relating to our business or the healthcare industry in general will be enacted in the future or what effect, if any, such legislation or regulations may have on us. Due to these uncertainties, we may be required to spend 19Table of Contentssignificant resources in connection with any such investigation or litigation or to comply with new or existing laws and regulations.In addition, the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject, including those related to financial disclosure, are complex and require significant resources to remain compliant. Any substantial non-compliance with such legal and regulatory requirements could result in significant fines and penalties or a restatement of our financial statements, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Various governmental agencies have conducted investigations and audits into certain PBM business practices. Many of these investigations and audits have resulted in other PBMs agreeing to civil penalties, including the payment of money and corporate integrity agreements. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such governmental investigations and audits may ultimately have on us or on the PBM industry in general (see “Part I — Item 3 — Legal Proceedings”). However, we may experience additional government scrutiny and audit activity related to audits that Accredo Health Group face or may face which result in payment or offset of prior reimbursement from the government.Several states are considering but have not yet enacted statutes that would purport to declare a PBM is a fiduciary with respect to its clients and one such statue has been overturned in the District of Columbia. We cannot predict what effect, if any, these and similar statutes, if enacted, may have on our business and financial results, nor can we predict how other courts may view such laws.Changes to government policies, including policies designed to manage healthcare costs or other healthcare financing practices could adversely impact our business and results of operations.From time to time, certain legislative and/or regulatory proposals are made which seek to manage the healthcare industry, including managing prescription drug cost, regulating drug distribution and managing health records. Such proposals include, but are not limited to, “single-payer” government funded healthcare, changes in reimbursement rates, restrictions on access or therapeutic substitution, limits on more efficient delivery channels, taxes on goods and services, price controls on prescription drugs, incentivizing the use of electronic health records, regulating the use of maximum allowable cost pricing and other significant healthcare reform proposals. In addition, changes to government policies not specifically targeted to the healthcare industry, such as an increase in the corporate tax rate or government spending cuts, could have significant impacts on the PBM marketplace. We are unable to predict whether any such policies or proposals will be enacted, or the specific terms thereof. Certain of these policies or proposals could, if enacted, adversely impact our business and results of operations.The implementation of the Health Reform Laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In March 2010, the federal government enacted the Health Reform Laws, which will be gradually phased in through 2020 (see “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Government Regulation and Compliance — Federal Healthcare Reform”). The Health Reform Laws contain many provisions that directly or indirectly apply to us, our clients, employers and benefit providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, healthcare providers and others with whom we do business, including:•PBM disclosure requirements in the context of Medicare Part D and the Health Insurance Exchanges•new federal regulations applicable to health plans offered by insurance companies, employers and other plan sponsors•state and federal regulations applicable to health plans offered in the Health Insurance Exchanges•medical loss ratio requirements, which require insurers to spend a specified percentage of premium revenues on incurred claims or healthcare quality improvements, and require some of our clients to report certain types of PBM proprietary information•various health insurance taxes and fees•changes to the calculation of average manufacturer price (“AMP”) of drugs and an increase in the rebate amounts drug manufacturers must pay to states for drugs reimbursed by state Medicaid programs, including through Medicaid managed care organizations•imposition of new fees on pharmaceutical manufacturers and importers of brand-name prescription drugs•expansion of the 340B drug discount program, which limits the costs of certain outpatient drugs to qualified health centers and hospitals•risk adjustments, risk corridors and reinsurance requirements that affect certain of our clients•closing of the so-called donut hole under Medicare Part D by lowering beneficiary coinsurance amounts•elimination of the tax deduction for employers who receive Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy payments20Table of Contents•mandated changes to client plan designs•changes to certain healthcare fraud and abuse lawsThe scope and ultimate effect of such provisions on our business remains uncertain and we cannot predict the impact any interim or final implementation will have on our business and results of operations.We face risks associated with general economic conditions.The state of the economy can have a significant impact on our business and results of operations. An unfavorable or uncertain economic environment could significantly and adversely affect our businesses and profitability and generate the following risks to our business:•clients, employers and other benefit providers served by our clients may reduce or slow the growth of their workforce or covered membership, or may elect to discontinue or diminish provided benefits, which would result in a reduction in the number of members we serve•consumers may be less willing or able to incur health care related expenses, whether due to personal economic circumstances, reduction in the level of the health care benefit provided to the consumer or otherwise, which would result in lower than anticipated utilization of our services•our clients, or potential clients, may increase demands and expectations with respect to pricing, rebates or service levels (including with respect to performance guarantees), which could impact margins, or our ability to obtain new clients or retain existing clients•our clients, or potential clients, may be less willing to purchase additional products and services from us, which would impact our financial performanceUnfavorable and uncertain economic conditions may also cause disruptions in the credit markets which could increase our cost of borrowing or make credit unavailable on acceptable terms to the extent we need additional funds. Such developments may adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our ability to conduct operations depends on the security and stability of our technology infrastructure as well as the effectiveness of, and our ability to execute, business continuity plans across our operations. A failure in the security of our technology infrastructure or a significant disruption in service within our operations could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.We maintain, and are dependent on, a technology infrastructure platform essential for many aspects of our business operations. We have many different information systems and it is imperative we securely store and transmit confidential data, including personal health information, while maintaining the integrity of our confidential information. Any failure to protect against a security breach or a disruption in service could negatively impact our reputation and materially adversely impact our business operations and results of operations. Our technology infrastructure platform requires significant resources to maintain and enhance systems in order to keep pace with rapid technological change as well as evolving industry and regulatory standards. Emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security which may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations. From time to time, we may obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to adequately perform or protect against a security breach or service disruption. In the event we or our vendors experience:•a malfunction in business processes•security breaches (including cyber attacks)•failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems or•otherwise experience unauthorized or non-compliant actions by any individualWe could incur disruptions to our business operations or negative impacts to patient safety, customer and member disputes, damage to our reputation, exposures to risk of loss, litigation or regulatory violations, increased administrative expenses or other adverse consequences.We operate dispensing pharmacies, call centers, data centers and corporate facilities that depend on the security and stability of our technology infrastructure. Our technology infrastructure could be disrupted by any number of events including a general failure of the technology, malfunction of business process or a disaster or other catastrophic event. Such disruptions could, temporarily or indefinitely, significantly reduce, or partially or totally eliminate our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our clients and members. Any such service disruption at these facilities or to 21Table of Contentsthis infrastructure or our failure to implement adequate business continuity and disaster recovery strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.A significant disruption in service within our operations could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our business is dependent on a number of different operations, products and processes, many of which involve third parties. A disruption in our business operations could result from, among other things, contamination of drugs or a failure to maintain appropriate shipment and storage conditions (such as temperature), an error in mail order processing, the unavailability of services provided by our suppliers, vendors or shipping carriers, labor strikes, or unanticipated disruptions at our mail order facilities, call centers, data centers or corporate facilities. Such disruptions or our failure to implement adequate business continuity and disaster recovery strategies could, temporarily or indefinitely, significantly reduce, or partially or totally eliminate our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our clients and members, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.A substantial portion of our business is concentrated in certain significant client contracts. Our failure to execute on or other issues arising under, such contracts or conditions or trends impacting certain of our key clients could adversely affect our business and results of operations.As described in greater detail in the description of our business in Item 1 above (see “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Clients”), we have long-term contracts with Anthem (formerly known as WellPoint) and the United States Department of Defense (“DoD”). These two clients, collectively represented 25.9% and 22.4% of our revenue during 2014 and 2013, respectively.If one or more of our large clients either terminates or does not renew a contract for any reason or if the provisions of a contract with a large client are modified, renewed or otherwise changed with terms less favorable to us, our financial results could be materially adversely affected and we could experience a negative reaction in the investment community resulting in stock price declines or other adverse effects.If we are not able to replace lost business or margin by generating new sales with comparable operating margins or successfully executing other corporate strategies, our revenues and results of operations could suffer. In addition, if certain of our key clients are negatively impacted by business conditions or other economic trends, or if such clients are acquired, consolidated or otherwise fail to successfully maintain or grow their business, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted.If significant changes occur within the pharmacy provider marketplace, or if other issues arise with respect to our pharmacy networks, including the loss of or adverse change in our relationship with one or more key pharmacy providers, our business and financial results could be impaired.More than 69,000 retail pharmacies, which represent over 95% of all United States retail pharmacies, participated in one or more of our networks at December 31, 2014. The ten largest retail pharmacy chains represent approximately 60% of the total number of stores in our largest network. In certain geographic areas of the United States, our networks may be comprised of higher concentrations of one or more large pharmacy chains. Contracts with retail pharmacies are generally non-exclusive and are terminable on relatively short notice by either party. If one or more of the larger pharmacy chains terminates its relationship with us, or is able to renegotiate terms that are substantially less favorable to us, our members’ access to retail pharmacies and/or our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the entry of one or more large pharmacy chains into the PBM business in addition to the current pharmacy chain competitors, the consolidation of existing pharmacy chains or increased leverage or market share by the largest pharmacy providers, could increase the likelihood of negative changes in our relationship with such pharmacies. Changes in the overall composition of our pharmacy networks, or reduced pharmacy access under our networks, could have a negative impact on our claims volume and/or our competitiveness in the marketplace, which could cause us to fall short of certain guarantees in our contracts with clients or otherwise impair our business or results of operations.Regulatory changes relating to Medicare Part D, our failure to comply with CMS regulatory requirements, our failure to comply with CMS contractual requirements applicable to us as a Medicare Part D PDP sponsor or our failure to otherwise execute on our strategies related to Medicare Part D, could adversely impact our business and our results of operations. Certain of our subsidiaries have been approved to function as a Medicare Part D sponsor for the purpose of making Medicare Part D EGWP plans available for eligible clients and certain of our subsidiaries have been approved by CMS to participate in the Medicare Part D program as national Medicare Part D PDP sponsors that provide direct services to Medicare Part D eligible members. As Medicare Part D PDP and EGWP sponsors, certain subsidiaries are required to comply with federal Medicare Part D laws and regulations and are also required to be licensed as insurers or may otherwise be subject to aspects of state laws regulating the business of insurance. 22Table of ContentsWe also provide other products and services in support of our clients’ Medicare Part D plans or federal Retiree Drug Subsidy plans. We have made, and may be required to make further, substantial investments in the personnel and technology necessary to administer our Medicare Part D strategy and operations. There are many uncertainties about the financial and regulatory risks of participating in the Medicare Part D program, and we can give no assurance these risks will not materially adversely impact our business and results of operations. The receipt of federal funds made available through the Medicare Part D program by us, our affiliates or clients is subject to compliance with the Medicare regulations and established laws and regulations governing the federal government’s payment for healthcare goods and services, including the anti-kickback laws and the federal False Claims Act. If material contractual or regulatory non-compliance was to be identified, including, for example, during CMS audits or client audits in cases where we provide PBM services to client PDP sponsors, recoupment, monetary penalties and/or applicable sanctions, including suspension of enrollment and marketing or debarment from participation in Medicare programs, could be imposed. Further, the adoption or promulgation of new or more complex regulatory requirements or changes in the interpretation of existing regulatory requirements, in each case, associated with Medicare may require us to incur significant compliance-related costs which could adversely impact our business and our results of operations.In addition, due to the availability of Medicare Part D, some of our employer clients may stop providing pharmacy benefit coverage to retirees, instead allowing retirees to choose their own Medicare Part D plans, which could cause a reduction in utilization for our services. Extensive competition among Medicare Part D plans could also result in the loss of Medicare members by our managed care customers, which would cause a decline in our membership base. Further, certain of our Medicare Part D product offerings require premium payment from members for the ongoing benefit, as well as amounts due from CMS, and as a result of the demographics of the calculations, as well as the potential magnitude and timing of settlement for amounts due from CMS, these accounts receivable are subject to billing and realization risk in excess of what is experienced in the core PBM business.Like many aspects of our business, the administration of the Medicare Part D program is complex and any failure to effectively execute the provisions of the Medicare Part D program may have an adverse effect on our financial position results of operations or cash flows. As described above, the Health Reform Laws contain various changes to the Medicare Part D program and could have a financial impact on our Medicare Part D PDP and our clients’ demands for our other Medicare Part D products and services.We have historically engaged in strategic transactions, including the acquisition of other companies or businesses, and may engage in similar transactions in the future. Our failure to effectively execute on such transactions or to integrate any acquired businesses could adversely impact our business and results of operations. The acquisition and integration of any such business typically generates significant transaction costs and requires significant resources and management attention.We have historically engaged in strategic transactions, including the acquisition of other companies and businesses. These transactions typically involve the integration of core business operations and technology infrastructure platforms that require significant resources and management attention and, among other things, risk client service disruption. Strategic transactions, including the pursuit of such transactions, often require us to incur significant up-front costs. These costs are typically non-recurring expenses related to the assessment, due diligence, negotiation and execution of the transaction. We may also incur additional costs to retain key employees as well as transaction fees and costs related to executing our integration plans. A failure or significant delay in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on our client service or our business and results of operations. In addition, such transactions may yield higher operating costs, greater customer attrition or more significant business disruption than anticipated. Further, even if the integration is successful, there can be no assurance a transaction will result in the realization of the expected benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies, or that any realized benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame or an otherwise reasonable period of time.The combination of Medco’s business and ESI’s business has been a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This integration has resulted in, and may continue to result in, challenges which could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, diversion of management’s time and energy or other negative impacts on the business, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our business operations involve the substantial receipt and use of confidential health information concerning individuals and a failure to adequately protect such information could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Most of our activities involve the receipt or use of protected health information concerning individuals. We also use aggregated and anonymized data for research and analysis purposes, and in some cases, provide access to such data to pharmaceutical manufacturers and third-party data aggregators and analysts. There is substantial regulation at the federal and state levels addressing the use, disclosure and security of patient identifiable health information. At the federal level, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the regulations issued thereunder (collectively “HIPAA”) impose extensive requirements governing the transmission, use and disclosure of health information by all participants in health care 23Table of Contentsdelivery, including physicians, hospitals, insurers and other payors. Many of these obligations were expanded under the Health Information and Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the “HITECH Act”), passed as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Failure to comply with standards issued pursuant to federal or state statutes or regulations may result in criminal penalties and civil sanctions. In addition to these regulations, future regulations and legislation that severely restricts or prohibits our use of patient identifiable or other information could limit our ability to use information critical to the operation of our business. Furthermore, if we violate a patient’s privacy or are found to have violated any federal or state statute or regulation with regard to confidentiality or dissemination or use of protected health information, we could be liable for significant damages, fines or penalties and suffer reputational harm, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our debt service obligations reduce the funds available for other business purposes, and the terms and covenants relating to our indebtedness could adversely impact our financial performance and liquidity. Our inability to access the credit markets for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We currently have debt outstanding, including indebtedness of ESI and Medco guaranteed by us. Our debt service obligations reduce the funds available for other business purposes. Increases in interest rates on variable rate indebtedness would increase our interest expense and could materially adversely affect our financial results. At December 31, 2014, we had $1,315.8 million of gross obligations which were subject to variable rates of interest under our credit agreement. A hypothetical increase in interest rates of 1% would result in an increase in annual interest expense of approximately $13.2 million (pre-tax), assuming obligations subject to variable interest rates remained constant.We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, such as the insufficiency of cash flow to meet required debt service payment obligations and the inability to refinance existing indebtedness. In addition, certain of our debt instruments contain covenants which include limitations or qualifications on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, initiate or permit liens on assets, and engage in mergers, consolidations or disposals. The covenants under our credit agreement also include, among other things, a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. If we fail to satisfy one or more of the covenants under our credit agreement or the senior notes indentures, we would be in default under the credit agreement and/or the senior notes indentures, and may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or otherwise not be able to draw down against our revolving credit facility. Under such circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. Our inability to refinance existing indebtedness or otherwise access the credit markets for any reason, whether due to market conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See Note 7 - Financing to our consolidated financial statements included in “Part II — Item 8” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.A delay, reduction, suspension or cancellation of government spending or appropriations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Certain of our revenues are ultimately sourced from government spending and appropriated funds. The failure to provide for continued appropriations or regular ongoing scheduled payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.If we lose our relationship with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers, or if the payments made or discounts provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.We maintain contractual relationships with numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers which provide us with, among other things:•discounts for drugs we purchase to be dispensed from our home delivery pharmacies•rebates based on distributions of drugs from our home delivery pharmacies and through pharmacies in our retail networks•administrative fees for managing rebate programs, including the development and maintenance of formularies which include the particular manufacturer’s products•access to limited distribution specialty pharmaceuticalsThe consolidation of pharmaceutical manufacturers, the termination or material alteration of our contractual relationships, or our failure to renew such contracts on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, formulary fee programs have been the subject of debate in federal and state legislatures and various other public and governmental forums. Adoption of new laws, rules or regulations or changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws, rules or regulations, relating to any of these programs could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.24Table of ContentsChanges in drug pricing or industry pricing benchmarks could materially impact our financial performance.Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with retail pharmacy networks and with PBM and specialty pharmacy clients, generally use “average wholesale price” or “AWP,” which is published by a third party, as a benchmark to establish pricing for prescription drugs. In the event (i) AWP is no longer published by third parties, (ii) we adopt other pricing benchmarks for establishing prices within the industry or (iii) future changes in drug prices substantially deviate from our expectations, we can give no assurance the short- or long-term impact of such changes to industry pricing benchmarks or drug prices will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Legislation and other regulations affecting drug prices are described in more detail under “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Government Regulation and Compliance — Legislation and Regulation Affecting Drug Prices” above.Pending and future litigation, investigations or other proceedings could subject us to significant monetary damages or penalties and/or require us to change our business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We are subject to risks relating to litigation, enforcement action, regulatory proceedings, government inquiries and investigations and other similar actions in connection with our business operations, including without limitation the dispensing of pharmaceutical products by our specialty and home delivery pharmacies, services rendered in connection with our disease management offering, our pharmaceutical services operations, pharmacy benefit management services and mergers and acquisitions activity. These proceedings seek unspecified monetary damages and/or equitable relief. While we believe these proceedings are without merit and intend to contest them vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any such proceedings. If one or more of these proceedings has an unfavorable outcome, we cannot provide any assurance it would not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including our ability to attract and retain clients as a result of any negative reputational impact of such an outcome. Further, while certain costs are covered by insurance, we may incur uninsured costs that are material to our financial performance in the defense of such proceedings.Commercial liability insurance coverage continues to be difficult to obtain for companies in our business sector, as such insurance can cause unexpected volatility in premiums and/or retention requirements dictated by insurance carriers. We have established certain self-insurance accruals to cover anticipated losses within our retained liability for previously reported claims and the cost to defend these claims. However, there can be no assurance such accruals will cover actual losses or that general, professional, managed care errors and omissions, and/or other liability insurance coverage will be reasonably available in the future or such insurance coverage, together with our self-insurance accruals, will be adequate to cover future claims. A claim, or claims, in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees. Further, managing succession and retention for our Chief Executive Officer and other key executives is critical to our success, and our failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our future performance.Our ability to attract and retain a qualified and experienced workforce is essential to meet current and future goals and objectives and there is no guarantee we will be able to attract and retain such employees or that competition among potential employers will not result in increased salaries or other benefits. An inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees, or an unexpected loss of leadership, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.In addition, our failure to adequately plan for succession of our Chief Executive Officer, senior management and other key employees or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. While we have succession plans in place and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these do not guarantee the services of these executives will continue to be available to us.Item 1B