, Risk Factors, for information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on its operations, which discussion under the caption “The Company’s Portfolio may have environmental liabilities” is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.OTHER MATTERSCertain Policies of the CompanyThe Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company has in the past five years and may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities’ underlying assets are real estate.The Company invests primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal markets within Southern California, the San Francisco Bay Area, and the Seattle metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in apartment communities in such regions.  However, these practices may be reviewed and modified periodically by management.6Table of ContentsITEM 1A: RISK FACTORSFor purposes of this section, the term “stockholders” means the holders of shares of Essex Property Trust, Inc.’s common stock and preferred stock. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to Essex Property Trust, Inc.’s stockholders and Essex Portfolio, L.P.’s unit holders. You should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our company, our properties and our business.Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual operating results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.Risks Related to Our Real Estate Investments and OperationsGeneral real estate investment risks may adversely affect property income and values. Real estate investments are subject to a variety of risks. If the communities and other real estate investments do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, cash flow and the ability to make distributions to stockholders will be adversely affected. Income from the communities may be further adversely affected by, among other things, the following factors:•the general economic climate;•local economic conditions in which the communities are located, such as oversupply of housing or a reduction in demand for rental housing;•the attractiveness of the communities to tenants;•competition from other available housing alternatives;•changes in rent control or stabilization laws or other laws regulating housing;•the Company’s ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance; and•changes in interest rates and availability of financing.As leases at the communities expire, tenants may enter into new leases on terms that are less favorable to the Company. Income and real estate values also may be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws (ex: the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and tax laws). Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, the Company’s ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions may be quite limited.Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents, and the Company may be unable to renew leases or relet units as leases expire.  Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. If the Company is unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the units, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, then the Company’s results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.  With these short term leases, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms.We may pursue acquisitions, dispositions, investments and joint ventures, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may make acquisitions of and investments in businesses that offer complementary properties and communities to augment our market coverage, or enhance our property offerings. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance, or joint venture opportunities, that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that such transactions or relationships will be successful. In addition, our original estimates and assumptions used in assessing any acquisition may be inaccurate, and we may not realize the expected financial or strategic benefits of any such acquisition. From time to time, we may also divest portions of our business that are no longer strategically important or exit minority investments, which could materially affect our FFO, cash flows and results of operations.These transactions or any other acquisitions or dispositions involve risks and uncertainties. For example, as a consequence of such transactions, we may assume unknown liabilities, which could ultimately lead to material costs for us. In addition, the integration of acquired businesses or other acquisitions may not be successful and could result in disruption to other parts of our business. To integrate acquired businesses or other acquisitions, we must implement our management information systems, operating systems and internal controls, and assimilate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. There can be no assurance that all pre-acquisition property due diligence will have identified all material issues that might arise with respect to such acquired business and its properties or as to any such other acquisitions.  Any acquisition may also cause us to assume liabilities and ongoing lawsuits, acquire goodwill and other non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges, incur amortization expense related 7Table of Contentsto certain intangible assets, increase our expenses and working capital requirements, and subject us to litigation, which would reduce our return on invested capital. In addition, if the businesses or properties that we acquire have a different pricing or cost structure than we do, such acquisitions may adversely affect our profitability and reduce our overall margin. Failure to manage and successfully integrate the acquisitions we make or to improve margins of the acquired businesses and products could materially harm our business, operating results and margins. Any dispositions we may make may also result in ongoing obligations to us following any such divestiture, for example as a result of any transition services or indemnities we agree to provide to the purchaser in any such transaction, which may result in additional expenses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation.Any future acquisitions we make may also require significant additional debt or equity financing, which, in the case of debt financing, would increase our leverage and potentially affect our credit ratings and, in the case of equity or equity-linked financing, could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Any downgrades in our credit ratings associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow by resulting in more restrictive borrowing terms. As a result of the foregoing, we also may not be able to complete acquisitions or other strategic transactions in the future to the same extent as in the past, or at all. These and other factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. National and regional economic environments can negatively impact the Company’s operating results. The Company's forecast for the national economy assumes growth of the gross domestic product of the national economy and the economies of the west coast states. In the event of a recession, the Company could incur reductions in rental rates, occupancy levels, property valuations and increases in operating costs such as advertising and turnover expenses.Inflation/Deflation may affect rental rates and operating expenses. Substantial inflationary or deflationary pressures could have a negative effect on rental rates and property operating expenses.Acquisitions of communities involve various risks and uncertainties and may fail to meet expectations. The Company intends to continue to acquire apartment communities. However, there are risks that acquisitions will fail to meet the Company’s expectations. The Company’s estimates of future income, expenses and the costs of improvements or redevelopment that are necessary to allow the Company to market an acquired apartment community as originally intended may prove to be inaccurate.   Also, in connection with such acquisitions, we may assume unknown liabilities, which could ultimately lead to material costs for us.  The Company expects to finance future acquisitions, in whole or in part, under various forms of secured or unsecured financing or through the issuance of partnership units by the Operating Partnership or related partnerships or additional equity by the Company. The use of equity financing, rather than debt, for future developments or acquisitions could dilute the interest of the Company’s existing stockholders. If the Company finances new acquisitions under existing lines of credit, there is a risk that, unless the Company obtains substitute financing, the Company may not be able to undertake additional borrowing for further acquisitions or developments or such borrowing may be not available on advantageous terms.Our apartment communities may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities which could cause us to incur substantial costs. The properties that the Company owns or may acquire are or may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which the Company may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. In general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements related to the sales of the properties may not survive the closing of the transactions. While the Company will seek to require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification may be limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with apartment communities may exceed our expectations, and we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Development and redevelopment activities may be delayed, not completed, and/or not achieve expected results. The Company pursues development and redevelopment projects and these projects generally require various governmental and other approvals, which have no assurance of being received. The Company’s development and redevelopment activities generally entail certain risks, including the following:•funds may be expended and management's time devoted to projects that may not be completed;•construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates possibly making the project economically unfeasible;•projects may be delayed due to, without limitation, adverse weather conditions, labor or material shortage;•occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may be less than anticipated; 8Table of Contents•expenses at completed development projects may be higher than anticipated; and •we may be unable to obtain, or experience a delay in obtaining, necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental or third party permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or delay or abandonment of opportunities.These risks may reduce the funds available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders. Further, the development and redevelopment of communities is also subject to the general risks associated with real estate investments. For further information regarding these risks, please see the risk factor above titled “General real estate investment risks may adversely affect property income and values.”Difficulty of selling apartment communities could limit liquidity and financial flexibility.  If we are found to have held, acquired or developed a community primarily with the intent to resell the community, federal tax laws may limit our ability to sell the community without incurring a 100% tax on the gain on the sale of the community and potentially adversely impacting our status as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) unless we own the community through one of our taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). In addition, real estate in our markets can at times be difficult to sell quickly at prices we find acceptable. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to change or reduce the apartment communities in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The geographic concentration of the Company’s communities and fluctuations in local markets may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company generated significant amounts of rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, from the Company’s communities concentrated in Southern California (Los Angeles, Orange, Santa Barbara, San Diego, and Ventura counties), Northern California (the San Francisco Bay Area), and the Seattle metropolitan area. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 83% of the Company’s rental revenues were generated from communities located in California. This geographic concentration could present risks if local property market performance falls below expectations.  In general, factors that may adversely affect local market and economic conditions include the following: •the economic climate, which may be adversely impacted by a reduction in jobs or income levels, industry slowdowns and other factors; •local conditions, such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, apartment homes; •declines in household formation; •favorable residential mortgage rates; •rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating rental housing, which could prevent the Company from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and •competition from other available apartments and other housing alternatives and changes in market rental rates. The Company may experience various increased costs, including increased property taxes, to own and maintain its properties.  Real property taxes on our properties may increase as our properties are reassessed by taxing authorities or as property tax rates change. Thus, our real estate taxes in the State of Washington could increase as a result of property value reassessments or increased property tax rates in that state. A current California law commonly referred to as Proposition 13 generally limits annual real estate tax increases on California properties to 2% of assessed value. However, under Proposition 13, property tax reassessment generally occurs as a result of a “change in ownership” of a property, as specially defined for purposes of those rules. Because the property taxing authorities may not determine whether there has been a “change in ownership” or the actual reassessed value of a property for a period of time after a transaction has occurred, we may not know the impact of a potential reassessment for a considerable amount of time following a particular transaction. Therefore, the amount of property taxes we are required to pay could increase substantially from the property taxes we currently pay or have paid in the past, including on a retroactive basis. In addition, from time to time voters and lawmakers have announced initiatives to repeal or amend Proposition 13 to eliminate its application to commercial and industrial property and/or introduce split tax roll legislation. Such initiatives, if successful, could increase the assessed value and/or tax rates applicable to commercial property in California, including our apartment communities. The Company may experience increased costs associated with capital improvements and routine property maintenance, such as repairs to the foundation, exterior walls, and rooftops of its properties, as its properties advance through their life-cycles.  Increases in the Company’s expenses to own and maintain its properties could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.Competition in the apartment community market may adversely affect operations and the rental demand for the Company’s communities. There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company’s communities in attracting residents. These include other apartment communities, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent or for sale in the markets in which the communities are located.  Competitive housing in a particular area and the increasing affordability of 9Table of Contentsowner occupied single and multi-family homes caused by lower housing prices, mortgage interest rates and government programs to promote home ownership could adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain its residents, lease apartment homes and increase or maintain rents.  If the demand for the Company’s communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing apartment communities, rental rates may drop, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company also faces competition from other real estate investment trusts, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities. This competition may result in an increase in costs and prices of apartment communities that the Company acquires and/or develops.Investments in mortgages and other real estate securities could affect the Company’s ability to make distributions to stockholders. The Company may invest in equity, preferred equity or debt securities related to real estate, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to make distributions to stockholders. The Company may purchase or otherwise invest in securities issued by entities which own real estate and/or invest in mortgages or unsecured debt obligations. These mortgages may be first, second or third mortgages that may or may not be insured or otherwise guaranteed. The Company may acquire mezzanine loans, which take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity or entities that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. In general, investments in mortgages include the following risks:•that the value of mortgaged property may be less than the amounts owed, causing realized or unrealized losses;•the borrower may not pay indebtedness under the mortgage when due, requiring the Company to foreclose, and the amount recovered in connection with the foreclosure may be less than the amount owed;•that interest rates payable on the mortgages may be lower than the Company’s cost of funds; •in the case of junior mortgages, that foreclosure of a senior mortgage could eliminate the junior mortgage; and•delays in the collection of principal and interest if a borrower claims bankruptcy.If any of the above were to occur, it could adversely affect the Company’s cash flows from operations.The Company’s joint ventures and joint ownership of communities and partial interests in corporations and limited partnerships could limit the Company’s ability to control such communities and partial interests. Instead of purchasing and developing apartment communities directly, the Company has invested and may continue to invest in joint ventures. Joint venture partners often have shared control over the development and operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, it is possible that a joint venture partner in an investment might become bankrupt, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company’s business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to the Company’s instructions or requests, or its policies or objectives. Consequently, a joint venture partners’ actions might subject property owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Although the Company seeks to maintain sufficient influence over any joint venture to achieve its objectives, the Company may be unable to take action without its joint venture partners’ approval, or joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without its consent. A joint venture partner might fail to approve decisions that are in the Company’s best interest. Should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, the Company could become liable for such partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. In some instances, the Company and the joint venture partner may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause the Company to sell its interest, or acquire a partner’s interest, at a time when the Company otherwise would have not have initiated such a transaction.From time to time, the Company, through the Operating Partnership, invests in corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability companies or other entities that have been formed for the purpose of acquiring, developing, financing, or managing real property. For example, the Company has made preferred equity investments in third party entities that own real estate. With preferred equity investments and certain other investments, the Operating Partnership’s interest in a particular entity is typically less than a majority of the outstanding voting interests of that entity. Therefore, the Operating Partnership’s ability to control the daily operations of such an entity may be limited. Furthermore, the Operating Partnership may not have the power to remove a majority of the board of directors (in the case of a corporation) or the general partner or partners (in the case of a limited partnership) of such an entity in the event that its operations conflict with the Operating Partnership’s objectives. The Operating Partnership may not be able to dispose of its interests in such an entity. In the event that such an entity becomes insolvent, the Operating Partnership may lose up to its entire investment in and any advances to the entity. The Company may also incur losses if any guarantees or indemnifications were made by the Company. The Company also owns properties indirectly under "downREIT" structures. The Company has, and in the future may, enter into transactions that could require the Company to pay the tax liabilities of partners, which contribute assets into downREITs, joint ventures or the Operating Partnership, in the event that certain taxable events, which are within the Company’s control, occur. Although the Company plans to hold the contributed assets or defer recognition of gain on sale pursuant to the like-kind exchange rules under Section 1031 of the Code, the Company can provide no assurance that the Company will be able to do so and if such tax liabilities were incurred they could have a material impact on its financial position.10Table of ContentsCompliance with laws benefiting disabled persons may require the Company to make significant unanticipated expenditures or impact the Company’s investment strategy. A number of federal, state and local laws (including the Americans with Disabilities Act) and regulations exist that may require modifications to existing buildings or restrict certain renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons and may require other structural features which add to the cost of buildings under construction. Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on the Company with respect to improved access by disabled persons. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations may be substantial. Noncompliance with these laws could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any noncomplying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. The Company’s portfolio may have environmental liabilities. Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances we have been from time to time, and may be required in the future, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our properties (including in some cases naturally occurring substances such as methane and radon gas) and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for response costs, property damage, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the impacts resulting from such releases.  While the Company is unaware of any such response action required or damage claims associated with its existing properties which individually or in aggregate would have a materially adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of operations, potential future costs and damage claims may be substantial and could exceed any insurance coverage we may have for such events or such coverage may not exist.  Further, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate any such impacts, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, develop, sell or rent the affected property.  In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the impacted site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of responding to hazardous or toxic substance or petroleum product releases .Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs") into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of apartment communities for personal injury associated with ACMs.  In connection with the ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management and development of our communities, the Company could be considered an owner or operator of such properties or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines and costs related to injuries of persons and property.Investments in real property create a potential for environmental liabilities on the part of the owner of such real property.  The Company carries certain limited insurance coverage for this type of environmental risk as to its properties; however, such coverage is not fully available for all properties and, as to those properties for which limited coverage is fully available it may not apply to certain claims arising from known conditions present on those properties.  In general, in connection with the ownership, operation, financing, management and development of its communities, the Company may be potentially liable for removal or clean-up costs, as well as certain other costs and environmental liabilities.  The Company may also be subject to governmental fines and costs related to injuries to third persons and damage to their property.Properties which we intend to acquire undergo a pre-acquisition Phase I environmental site assessment, which is intended to afford the Company protection against so-called “owner liability” under the primary federal environmental law, as well as further environmental assessment, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling except where conditions warranting such further assessment are identified and seller’s consent is obtained.  While such assessments are conducted in accordance with applicable “all appropriate inquiry" standards, no assurance can be given that all environmental conditions present on or beneath or emanating from a given property will be discovered or that the full nature and extent of those conditions which are discovered will be adequately ascertained and quantified.In connection with our ownership, operation and development of communities, from time to time we undertake remedial action in response to the presence of subsurface or other contaminants, including contaminants in soil, groundwater and soil vapor beneath or affecting our buildings.  The Company does so pursuant to appropriate environmental regulatory requirements with the objective of obtaining regulatory closure or a no further action determination that will allow for future use, development and sale of any impacted community.Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed in a timely manner.  Although the occurrence of mold at multi-family and other structures, and the need to remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or other reactions.  The Company has adopted policies for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold when it is detected, and to minimize any 11Table of Contentsimpact mold might have on residents of the property.  The Company believes its mold policies and proactive response to address any known existence reduce its risk of loss from these cases; however, no assurance can be provided that the Company has identified and responded to all mold occurrences.California has enacted legislation, commonly referred to as "Proposition 65," requiring that "clear and reasonable" warnings be given to persons who are exposed to chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity, including tobacco smoke.  Although the Company has sought to comply with Proposition 65 requirements, the Company cannot assure you that the Company will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to Proposition 65.Methane gas is a naturally-occurring gas that is commonly found below the surface in several areas, particularly in the Southern California coastal areas.  Methane is a non-toxic gas, but is flammable and can be explosive at sufficient concentrations when in confined spaces and exposed to an ignition source.  Naturally-occurring, methane gas is regulated at the state and federal level as a greenhouse gas but is not otherwise regulated as a hazardous substance; however some local governments, such as Los Angeles County, require that new buildings constructed in areas designated methane gas zones install detection and/or venting systems.  Methane gas is also associated with certain industrial activities, such as former municipal waste landfills.  Radon is also a naturally-occurring gas that is found below the surface and can pose a threat to human health requiring abatement action if present in sufficient concentration within occupied areas.  The Company cannot assure you that it will not be adversely affected by costs related to its compliance with methane or radon gas related requirements or litigation costs related to methane or radon gas.We cannot assure you that costs or liabilities incurred as a result of environmental matters will not affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders, or that such costs or liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; provided, however, the Company is unaware of any pending or threatened alleged claim resulting from such matters which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The Company may incur general uninsured losses. The Company purchases general liability and all risk property, including loss of rent, insurance coverage for each of its communities. The Company also purchases limited earthquake, terrorism, environmental and flood insurance. There are certain types of losses which may not be covered or could exceed coverage limits. The insurance programs are subject to deductibles and self-insured retentions in varying amounts. The Company utilizes a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific Western Insurance LLC ("PWI") to self-insure certain earthquake and all risk losses. As of December 31, 2015, PWI has cash and marketable securities of approximately $60.3 million, and is consolidated in the Company's financial statements. All the communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity. The Company evaluates its financial loss exposure to seismic events by using actuarial loss models developed by the insurance industry and property vulnerability based on structural evaluations of seismic consultants. The Company manages this exposure, where considered appropriate, desirable, and cost-effective, by upgrading properties to increase their resistance to forces caused by seismic events, by considering available funds and coverages provided by PWI and/or by purchasing seismic insurance. Purchasing seismic insurance coverage can be costly and such seismic insurance is in limited supply. As a result, the Company may experience a shortage in desired coverage levels if market conditions are such that insurance is not available, or the cost of the insurance makes it, in managements view, not economically practical. The Company purchases limited earthquake insurance for certain high-density properties and assets owned by the Company's co-investments.The Company carries other types of insurance coverage related to a variety of risks and exposures. Based on market conditions, the Company may change or potentially eliminate insurance coverages, or increase levels of self-insurance. Further, we cannot assure you that the company will not incur losses, which could be material, due to uninsured risks, deductibles and self-insured retentions, and/or losses in excess of coverage limits.We have significant investments in large metropolitan markets, such as the metropolitan markets in Southern California, the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle. These markets may in the future be the target of actual or threatened terrorist attacks. Future terrorist attacks in these markets could directly or indirectly damage our communities, both physically and financially, or cause losses that exceed our insurance coverage.Although the Company may carry insurance for potential losses associated with its communities, employees, residents, and compliance with applicable laws, it may still incur losses due to uninsured risks, deductibles, copayments or losses in excess of applicable insurance coverage and those losses may be material. In the event of a substantial loss, insurance coverage may not be able to cover the full replacement cost of the Company’s lost investment, or the insurance carrier may become insolvent and not be able to cover the full amount of the insured losses. Changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental 12Table of Contentsconsiderations and other factors might also affect the Company’s ability to replace or renovate an apartment community after it has been damaged or destroyed.Accidental death or horrendous injuries due to fire, natural disasters or other hazards could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The accidental death or horrendous injuries of persons living in our communities due to fire, natural disasters or other hazards could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not cover all losses associated with such events, and we may experience difficulty marketing communities where any such events have occurred, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Adverse changes in laws may affect the Company's liability relating to its properties and its operations. Increases in real estate taxes and income, service and transfer taxes cannot always be passed through to residents or users in the form of higher rents, and may adversely affect the Company's cash available for distribution and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders and pay amounts due on its debt. Similarly, changes in laws increasing the potential liability of the Company on a range of issues, including those regarding potential liability for other environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, as well as changes in laws including those affecting development, construction and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders and pay amounts due on our debt. For example, the California statute known as "SB375" provides that, in order to reduce greenhouse emissions, there should be regional planning to coordinate housing needs with regional transportation. Such planning could lead to restrictions on property development that adversely affect the Company. In addition, future enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating multi-family housing, as well as any lawsuits against the Company arising from such rent control or other laws, may reduce rental revenues or increase operating costs.The soundness of financial institutions could adversely affect us. We maintain cash and cash equivalent balances, including significant cash amounts of our wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific Western Insurance LLC, as well as 401(k) plan assets in a limited number of financial institutions.  Our cash balances are generally in excess of federally insured limits.  The failure or collapse of one or more of these financial institutions may materially adversely affect our ability to recover our cash balances or the 401(k) assets.  Certain financial institutions are lenders under our credit facilities, and, from time to time, we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry.  In the event that the volatility of the financial markets adversely affects these financial institutions or counterparties, we or other parties to the transactions with us may be unable to complete transactions as intended, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Failure to succeed in new markets may limit the Company’s growth. The Company may from time to time make acquisitions or commence development activity outside of its existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. The Company’s historical experience in its existing markets does not ensure that it will be able to operate successfully in new markets. The Company may be exposed to a variety of risks if it chooses to enter new markets. These risks include, among others: •an inability to evaluate accurately local apartment market conditions and local economies;•an inability to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities or to obtain land for development; •an inability to hire and retain key personnel; and •lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. The Company’s real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges.  The Company continually evaluates the recoverability of the carrying value of its real estate assets under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"). Factors considered in evaluating impairment of the Company’s existing multi-family real estate assets held for investment include significant declines in property operating profits, recurring property operating losses and other significant adverse changes in general market conditions that are considered permanent in nature. Generally, a multi-family real estate asset held for investment is not considered impaired if the undiscounted, estimated future cash flows of the asset over its estimated holding period are in excess of the asset’s net book value at the balance sheet date. Assumptions used to estimate annual and residual cash flow and the estimated holding period of such assets require the judgment of management. There can be no assurance that the Company will not take charges in the future related to the impairment of the Company’s assets.  Any future impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.We face risks associated with land holdings and related activities. We hold land for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in purchasing, owning and developing land increase as demand for apartments, or rental rates, decrease. Real estate markets are highly uncertain and, as a result, the value of undeveloped land may fluctuate significantly. In addition, carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or reduced profitability. As a result, we hold certain land, and may, in the future acquire additional land, in our development pipeline at a cost we may not be able to fully recover or at a cost which may preclude our developing a profitable multi-family community. If there are 13Table of Contentssubsequent changes in the fair value of our land holdings which we determine is less that the carrying basis of our land holdings reflected in our financial statements plus estimated costs to sell, we may be required to take future impairment changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and FinancingsCapital and credit market conditions may affect the Company’s access to sources of capital and/or the cost of capital, which could negatively affect the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  In periods when the capital and credit markets experience significant volatility, the amounts, sources and cost of capital available to the Company may be adversely affected.  Our current balance sheet, the debt capacity available on the unsecured line of credit with a diversified bank group, access to the public and private placement debt markets and secured debt financing providers such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provides some insulation from volatile capital markets. We primarily use external financing, including sales of equity securities, to fund acquisitions, developments, and redevelopments and to refinance indebtedness as it matures. If sufficient sources of external financing are not available to us on cost effective terms, we could be forced to limit our acquisition, development and redevelopment activity and/or take other actions to fund our business activities and repayment of debt, such as selling assets, reducing our cash dividend or paying out less than 100% of our taxable income.  In general, to the extent that the Company’s access to capital and credit is at a higher cost than the Company has experienced in recent years (reflected in higher interest rates for debt financing or a lower stock price for equity financing without a corresponding change to investment cap rates) the Company’s ability to make acquisitions, develop communities, obtain new financing, and refinance existing borrowing at competitive rates could be adversely affected, which would impact the Company's financial standing and related credit rating. In addition, if our ability to obtain financing is adversely affected, we may be unable to satisfy scheduled maturities on existing financing through other sources of our liquidity, which could result in lender foreclosure on the apartment communities securing such debt.The Company could be negatively impacted by the condition of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and by changes in government support for multi-family housing. Historically, the Company has utilized borrowing from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  There are no assurances that these entities will lend to the Company in the future.  Beginning in 2011, the Company has primarily utilized unsecured debt and has repaid secured debt at or near their respective maturity and has placed less reliance on agency mortgage debt financing.  The Administration and lawmakers have proposed potential options for the future of agency mortgage finance in the U.S. that could involve the phase out of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  While we believe Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will continue to provide liquidity to our sector, should they discontinue doing so, have their mandates changed or reduced or be disbanded or reorganized by the government or if there is reduced government support for support for multi-family housing more generally, it may adversely affect interest rates, capital availability, development of multi-family communities and the value of multi-family residential real estate and, as a result, may adversely affect the Company and its growth and operations.Debt financing has inherent risks.  At December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately $5.3 billion of indebtedness (including $525.3 million of variable rate indebtedness, of which $225.0 million is subject to interest rate swaps effectively fixing the interest rate, and $20.7 million is subject to interest rate cap protection).The Company is subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the following:•cash flow may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest;•inability to refinance maturing indebtedness on encumbered apartment communities;•inability to comply with debt covenants could cause defaults and an acceleration of  maturity dates; and•paying debt before the scheduled maturity date could result in prepayment penalties.The Company may not be able to renew, repay or refinance its indebtedness when due or may be required to refinance its indebtedness at higher interest rates or on terms that may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If the Company is unable to refinance its indebtedness on acceptable terms, or not at all, the Company might be forced to dispose of one or more of its properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses. Such losses could have an adverse effect on the Company and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders and pay amounts due on its debt. Furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and the Company is unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, appoint a receiver and exercise rights under an assignment of rents and leases, or pursue other remedies, all with a consequential loss of revenues and asset value. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet REIT distribution requirements.Debt financing of communities may result in insufficient cash flow to service debt and fund distributions.  Where appropriate, the Company intends to continue to use leverage to increase the rate of return on the Company’s investments and to provide for additional investments that the Company could not otherwise make. There is a risk that the cash flow from the 14Table of Contentscommunities will be insufficient to meet both debt payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the real estate investment trust provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).  Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations, working capital and capital expenditures, depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. To a certain extent, our cash flow is subject to general economic, industry, regional, financial, competitive, operating, legislative, regulatory, taxation and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 69 consolidated communities encumbered by debt. With respect to the 69 communities encumbered by debt, all of them are secured by deeds of trust relating solely to those communities. The holders of this indebtedness will have rights with respect to these communities and, if debt payment obligations are not met, lenders may seek foreclosure of communities which would reduce the Company’s income and net asset value, and its ability to service other debt.Compliance requirements of tax-exempt financing and below market rent requirements may limit income from certain communities. At December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately $281.7 million of variable rate tax-exempt financing. This tax-exempt financing provides for certain deed restrictions and restrictive covenants. The Company expects to engage in tax-exempt financings in the future. The Code and rules and regulations thereunder impose various restrictions, conditions and requirements in order to allow the note holder to exclude interest on qualified bond obligations from gross income for federal income tax purposes. The Code also requires that at least 20% of apartment units be made available to residents with gross incomes that do not exceed a specified percentage, generally 50%, of the median income for the applicable family size as determined by the Housing and Urban Development Department of the federal government. Certain state and local authorities may impose additional rental restrictions. These restrictions may limit income from the tax-exempt financed communities if the Company is required to lower rental rates to attract residents who satisfy the median income test. If the Company does not reserve the required number of apartment homes for residents satisfying these income requirements, the tax-exempt status of the bonds may be terminated, the obligations under the bond documents may be accelerated and the Company may be subject to additional contractual liability. Besides the limitations due to tax-exempt financing requirements, the income from certain communities may be limited due to below market rent ("BMR") requirements imposed by local authorities in connection with the original development of the community.The indentures governing our notes and other financing arrangements contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. The indentures that govern our publicly registered notes contain financial and operating covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interest, including restrictions on our ability to:•consummate a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and•incur additional secured and unsecured indebtedness.The instruments governing our other unsecured indebtedness require us to meet specified financial covenants, including covenants relating to net worth, fixed charge coverage, debt service coverage, the amounts of total indebtedness and secured indebtedness, leverage and certain investment limitations. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these provisions and those contained in the indentures governing the notes, may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events adversely impacting us. The breach of any of these covenants, including those contained in our indentures, could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it.Rising interest rates may affect the Company’s costs of capital and financing activities and results of operation. Interest rates could increase, which could result in higher interest expense on the Company’s variable rate indebtedness or increase interest rates when refinancing maturing fixed rate debt. Prolonged interest rate increases could negatively impact the Company’s ability to make acquisitions and develop apartment communities with positive economic returns on investment and the Company’s ability to refinance existing borrowings.Interest rate hedging arrangements may result in losses. The Company from time to time uses interest rate swaps and interest rate caps contracts to manage certain interest rate risks. Although these agreements may partially protect against rising interest rates, they also may reduce the benefits to the Company if interest rates decline. If a hedging arrangement is not indexed to the same rate as the indebtedness that is hedged, the Company may be exposed to losses to the extent that the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the hedging arrangement change independently of each other. Finally, nonperformance by the other party to the hedging arrangement may subject the Company to increased credit risks. In order to minimize counterparty credit risk, the Company enters into hedging arrangements only with investment grade financial institutions.15Table of ContentsA downgrade in the Company's investment grade credit rating could materially and adversely affect its business and financial condition.  The Company plans to manage its operations to maintain its investment grade credit rating with a capital structure consistent with its current profile, but there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain its current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Changes in the Company’s financing policy may lead to higher levels of indebtedness.  The Company’s organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that may be incurred.  The Company has adopted a policy of maintaining a limit on debt financing consistent with the existing covenants required to maintain the Company’s unsecured line of credit bank facility, unsecured debt and senior unsecured bonds.  Although pursuant to this policy the Company manages its debt to be in compliance with the debt covenants, the Company may increase the amount of outstanding debt at any time without a concurrent improvement in the Company’s ability to service the additional debt. Accordingly, the Company could become more leveraged, resulting in an increased risk of default of its debt covenants or on its debt obligations and in an increase in debt service requirements. Any covenant breach or significant increase in the Company’s leverage could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future.If the Company or its subsidiaries defaults on an obligation to repay outstanding indebtedness when due, the default could trigger a cross-default or cross-acceleration under other indebtedness.  If the Company or one of its subsidiaries defaults on its obligations to repay outstanding indebtedness, the default could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration under other indebtedness. A default under the agreements governing the Company’s or its subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including a default under mortgage indebtedness, lines of credit, bank term loan, or the indenture for the Company’s outstanding senior notes, that is not waived by the required lenders or holders of outstanding notes, could trigger cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions under one or more agreements governing the Company’s indebtedness, which could cause an immediate default or allow the lenders to declare all funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable.Risks Related to the Company in General and the Ownership of Essex’s StockThe Company depends on its key personnel, whose continued service is not guaranteed.  The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain executive officers, senior officers and company managers. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of any of the Company’s key personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company.The price per share of the Company’s stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price per share of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including without limitation:•regional, national and global economic conditions;•actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results or dividends;•changes in the Company’s funds from operations or earnings estimates;•issuances of common stock, preferred stock or convertible debt securities;•publication of research reports about the Company or the real estate industry;•the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities (including securities issued by other real estate based companies);•general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of the Company’s stock to demand a higher annual yield from dividends;•availability to capital markets and cost of capital;•a change in analyst ratings or the Company’s credit ratings;•terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which the Company’s securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and causing erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending; and•natural disasters such as earthquakes.Many of the factors listed above are beyond the Company’s control. These factors may cause the market price of shares of the Company’s common stock to decline, regardless of the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or business prospects.The Company’s future issuances of common stock, preferred stock or convertible debt securities could be dilutive to current stockholders and adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. In order to finance the Company’s acquisition and development activities, the Company has issued and sold common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt securities. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company issued 1.5 million and 3.0 million 16Table of Contents(excluding shares issued in connection with the BRE merger) shares of common stock for $332.3 million and $534.0 million, net of fees and commissions, respectively. The Company may in the future sell further shares of common stock, including pursuant to its equity distribution programs with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Barclays Capital Inc., BMO Capital Markets Corp., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Jefferies LLC ("Jefferies"), J.P. Morgan Securities LLC ("JP Morgan"), Liquidnet, Inc., Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc., and UBS Securities LLC ("UBS").In 2014, the Company filed a new shelf registration statement with the SEC, allowing the Company to sell an undetermined number of equity and debt securities as defined in the prospectus. Future sales of common stock, preferred stock or convertible debt securities may dilute stockholder ownership in the Company and could adversely affect the market price of the common stock.The Company’s Chairman is involved in other real estate activities and investments, which may lead to conflicts of interest. The Company’s Chairman, George M. Marcus is not an employee of the Company, and is involved in other real estate activities and investments, which may lead to conflicts of interest. Mr. Marcus owns interests in various other real estate-related businesses and investments. He is the Chairman of the Marcus & Millichap Company (“MMC”), which is a parent company of a diversified group of real estate service, investment and development firms.  Mr. Marcus is also the Co-Chairman of Marcus & Millichap, Inc. (“MMI”), and Mr. Marcus owns a controlling interest in MMI.  MMI is a national brokerage firm listed on the NYSE that underwent its initial public offering in 2013.Mr. Marcus has agreed not to divulge any confidential or proprietary information that may be received by him in his capacity as Chairman of the Company to any of his affiliated companies and that he will absent himself from any and all discussions by the Company's Board of Directors regarding any proposed acquisition and/or development of an apartment community where it appears that there may be a conflict of interest with any of his affiliated companies. Notwithstanding this agreement, Mr. Marcus and his affiliated entities may potentially compete with the Company in acquiring and/or developing apartment communities, which competition may be detrimental to the Company. In addition, due to such potential competition for real estate investments, Mr. Marcus and his affiliated entities may have a conflict of interest with the Company, which may be detrimental to the interests of the Company’s stockholders.The influence of executive officers, directors and significant stockholders may be detrimental to holders of common stock. As of December 31, 2015, George M. Marcus, the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, wholly or partially owned approximately 1.6 million shares of common stock (including shares issuable upon exchange of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and certain other partnerships, indirectly held shares of common stock and assuming exercise of all vested options).  Mr. Marcus currently does not have majority control over the Company. However, he currently has, and likely will continue to have, significant influence with respect to the election of directors and approval or disapproval of significant corporate actions. Consequently, his influence could result in decisions that do not reflect the interests of all the Company’s stockholders.Under the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, the consent of the holders of limited partnership interests is generally required for certain amendments of the agreement and for certain extraordinary actions. Through their ownership of limited partnership interests and their positions with the Company, the Company’s directors and executive officers, including Mr. Marcus, have substantial influence on the Company. Consequently, their influence could result in decisions that do not reflect the interests of all stockholders.Our related party guidelines may not adequately address all of the issues that may arise with respect to related party transactions. The Company adopted "Related Party Transaction Approval Process Guidelines" that provide generally that any transaction in which a director or executive officer has an interest must have the prior approval of the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. The review and approval procedures in these guidelines are intended to determine whether a particular related party transaction is fair, reasonable and serves the interests of the Company's stockholders. Pursuant to these guidelines, related party transactions have been approved from time to time. There is no assurance that this policy will be adequate for determining whether a particular related party transaction is suitable and fair for the Company. Also, the policy's procedures may not identify and address all the potential issues and conflicts of interests with a related party transaction.Failure to generate sufficient revenue or other liquidity needs could limit cash flow available for distributions to stockholders.  A decrease in rental revenue, or liquidity needs such as the repayment of indebtedness or funding of our acquisition and development activities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Significant expenditures associated with each community such as debt service payments, if any, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from a community. 17Table of ContentsThe form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations. The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. The Board of Directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time.We may choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case stockholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash they receive. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, the trading price of our stock would experience downward pressure if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends. The voting rights of preferred stock may allow holders of preferred stock to impede actions that might otherwise benefit holders of common stock. Essex currently has outstanding shares of 7.125% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (“Series H Preferred Stock”). In general, the holders of the Company’s outstanding shares of Series H Preferred Stock do not have any voting rights. However, if full distributions are not made on outstanding Series H Preferred Stock for six quarterly distributions periods, the holders of Series H Preferred Stock, together with holders of other series of preferred stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred, will have the right to elect two additional directors to serve on the Company’s Board of Directors.These voting rights continue until all distributions in arrears and distributions for the current quarterly period on the Series H Preferred Stock have been paid in full. At that time, the holders of the Series H Preferred Stock are divested of these voting rights, and the term of office of the directors so elected immediately terminates.  These voting rights of the holders of the Series H Preferred Stock, or that of holders of other preferred stock that the Company may issue in the future, may allow such holders to impede or prevent actions that would otherwise benefit the holders of the Company’s common stock.The Maryland Business Combination Act may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for the Company's stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, certain “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as any person (and certain affiliates of such person) who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock of the corporation. The law also requires a two supermajority stockholder votes for such transactions. This means that the transaction must be approved by at least:•80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares; and•Two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom the business combination is to be effected.The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These voting provisions do not apply if the stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under the Maryland General Corporation Law. As permitted by the statute, the Board of Directors of the Company irrevocably has elected to exempt any business combination among the Company, George M. Marcus, who is the chairman of the Company, and MMC or any entity owned or controlled by Mr. Marcus and MMC. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and supermajority vote requirements described above will not apply to any business combination between the Company, Mr. Marcus, or MMC. As a result, the Company may in the future enter into business combinations with Mr. Marcus and MMC, without compliance with the supermajority vote requirements and other provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act.Certain provisions contained in the Operating Partnership agreement, Charter and Bylaws, and certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law could delay, defer or prevent a change in control. While the Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, and generally has full and exclusive responsibility and discretion in the management and control of the Operating Partnership, certain provisions of the Operating Partnership agreement place limitations on the Company’s power to act with respect to the Operating Partnership. Such limitations could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the Company’s stock or otherwise be in the 18Table of Contentsbest interests of its stockholders or that could otherwise adversely affect their interests. The partnership agreement provides that if the limited partners own at least 5% of the outstanding units of partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, the Company may not, without first obtaining the consent of a majority in interest of the limited partners in the Operating Partnership, transfer all or any portion of the Company’s general partner interest in the Operating Partnership to another entity. Such limitations on the Company’s power to act may result in the Company’s being precluded from taking action that the Board of Directors otherwise believes is in the best interests of the Company or its stockholders.The Company’s Charter authorizes the issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock and the setting of the preferences, rights and other terms of such stock without the approval of the holders of the common stock. The Company may establish one or more classes or series of stock that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control. Such a transaction might involve a premium price for the Company’s stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the holders of common stock. Also, such a class or series of stock could have dividend, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the interests of holders of common stock.The Company’s Charter contains provisions limiting the transferability and ownership of shares of capital stock, which may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control. For example, subject to receiving an exemption from the Board of Directors, potential acquirers may not purchase more than 6% in value of the stock (other than qualified pension trusts which can acquire 9.9%). This may discourage tender offers that may be attractive to the holders of common stock and limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of common stock.The Maryland General Corporation Law restricts the voting rights of holders of shares deemed to be “control shares.” Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, “control shares” are those which, when aggregated with any other shares held by the acquirer, entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power within specified ranges. Although the Bylaws exempt the Company from the control share provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, the Board of Directors may amend or eliminate the provisions of the Bylaws at any time in the future. Moreover, any such amendment or elimination of such provision of the Bylaws may result in the application of the control share provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law not only to control shares which may be acquired in the future, but also to control shares previously acquired. If the provisions of the Bylaws are amended or eliminated, the control share provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that might involve a premium price for the stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders.The Company’s Charter and Bylaws also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders without approval of the Company’s Board of Directors, and that in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in control that might involve a premium price for the stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the Company's stockholders. Those provisions include:•directors may be removed by stockholders, without cause, only upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of the directors, and with cause, only upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of the directors;•the Company’s board can fix the number of directors and fill vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the directors;•stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for consideration at a stockholders’ meeting; and•for stockholders to call a special meeting, the meeting must be requested by not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting.A breach of the Company’s privacy or information security systems could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and financial condition. The protection of tenant, employee, and company data is critically important to the Company. Our business requires us, including some of our vendors, to use and store personally identifiable and other sensitive information of its tenants and employees. The collection and use of personally identifiable information is governed by federal and state laws and regulations. Privacy and information security laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with all such laws and regulations may increase the Company’s operating costs and adversely impact the Company’s ability to market the Company’s properties and services.The security measures put in place by the Company, and such vendors, cannot provide absolute security, and the Company and our vendors' information technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to criminal cyber-attacks or data security incidents due to employee error, malfeasance, or other vulnerabilities.  Any such incident could compromise the Company’s or such vendors' networks, and the information stored by the Company or such vendors could be accessed, misused, publicly disclosed, 19Table of Contentscorrupted, lost, or stolen, resulting in fraud, including wire fraud related to Company assets, or other harm.  Moreover, if a data security incident or breach affects the Company’s systems or such vendors' systems or results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information, the Company’s reputation and brand could be materially damaged and the Company may be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition.In the third quarter of 2014, the Company discovered and reported that certain of its computer networks containing personal and proprietary information were compromised by a cyber-intrusion. Based on information from our forensic investigation, the Company has confirmed that evidence exists of exfiltration of data on Company systems. The precise nature of the data has not been identified, and the Company does not presently have any evidence that data belonging to the Company has been misused. After detecting unusual activity, the Company took immediate steps to assess and contain the intrusion and secure its systems. The Company retained independent forensic computer experts to analyze the impacted data systems and consulted with law enforcement. As described in Note 16, "Commitments and Contingencies", of our notes to consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, on December 19, 2014, a putative class action was filed against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, entitled Foster v. Essex Property Trust, Inc. alleging that the Company failed to properly secure the personally-identifying information of its residents. At this point, the Company is unable to predict the developments in, outcome of, and/or economic and/or other consequences of such pending litigation or future litigation or predict the developments in, outcome of, and/or other consequences arising as a result of any potential government inquiries related to this matter.Privacy and information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. In light of this network intrusion we discovered in the third quarter of 2014, we have dedicated additional Company resources to strengthening the security of the Company’s computer systems. In the future, the Company may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance the Company’s information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Despite these steps, there can be no assurance that the Company will not suffer a similar data security incident in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to sensitive data stored on the Company’s systems, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner.  Further, the techniques used by criminals to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive data are often novel or change frequently; accordingly, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures.Expanding social media vehicles present new risks. The use of social media could cause us to suffer brand damage or information leakage. Negative posts or comments about us on any social networking website could damage our reputation. In addition, employees or others might disclose non-public sensitive information relating to our business through external media channels. The continuing evolution of social media will present us with new challenges and risks. Employee theft or fraud could result in loss.  Certain of our employees have access to, or signature authority with respect to, bank accounts or other company assets, which exposes us to the risk of fraud or theft. In addition, certain employees have access to key information technology (IT) infrastructure and to tenant and other information that is commercially valuable. Should any employee compromise our IT systems, or misappropriate tenant or other information, we could incur losses, including significant financial or reputational harm, from which full recovery cannot be assured.  We also may not have insurance that covers any losses in full or that covers losses from particular criminal acts.  As of December 31, 2015, potential liabilities for theft or fraud are not quantifiable and an estimate of possible loss cannot be made.Any material weaknesses identified in the Company's internal control over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on the Company’s stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires the Company to evaluate and report on its internal control over financial reporting. If the Company identifies one or more material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting, the Company could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial reports, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the Company’s stock price.Tax RisksThere are various U.S. tax risks in connection with an investment in the Company and in Essex Portfolio, L.P. The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. The Company’s qualification as a REIT requires it to satisfy numerous annual and quarterly requirements, including income, asset and distribution tests, established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations.  20Table of ContentsTo qualify under the income test, (i) at least 75% of the Company’s annual gross income generally must be derived from rents from real property, mortgage interest, gain from the sale or other disposition of real property held for investment, dividends or other distributions on, and gain from the sale or other disposition of shares of other REITs and certain other limited categories of income and (ii) at least 95% of the Company’s annual gross income generally must be derived from the preceding sources plus other dividends, interest other than mortgage interest, and gain from the sale or other disposition of stock and securities held for investment.  To qualify under the asset test, at the end of each quarter, at least 75% of the value of the Company’s assets must consist of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets and there are significant additional limitations regarding the Company’s investment in securities other than government securities and qualified real estate assets, including limitations on the percentage of our assets that can be represented by the Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS’s”).  To qualify under the distribution test, the Company generally must distribute to its shareholders each calendar year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined before a deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain.  In addition, to the extent the Company satisfies the 90% test, but distributes less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, it will be subject to corporate income tax on such undistributed income and could be subject to an additional 4% excise tax.  Because the Company needs to meet these tests to maintain its qualification as a REIT, it could cause the Company to have to forego certain business opportunities and potentially require the Company to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. In addition to the income, asset and distribution tests described above, the Company’s qualification as a REIT involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company’s control. Although the Company intends that its current organization and method of operation enable it to qualify as a REIT, it cannot assure you that it so qualifies or that it will be able to remain so qualified in the future. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions (any of which could have retroactive effect) could adversely affect the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT or adversely affect the Company’s stockholders. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, the Company would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on the Company’s taxable income at corporate rates, and the Company would not be allowed to deduct dividends paid to its stockholders in computing its taxable income. The Company would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which the Company failed to qualify. The additional tax liability would reduce its net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders, and the Company would no longer be required to make distributions to its stockholders for the purpose of maintaining REIT status. The Company has established several TRSs. The TRSs must pay U.S. federal income tax on their taxable income. While the Company will attempt to ensure that its dealings with its TRSs do not adversely affect its REIT qualification, it cannot provide assurances that it will successfully achieve that result. Furthermore, the Company may be subject to a 100% penalty tax, or its TRSs may be denied deductions, to the extent dealings between the Company and its TRSs are not deemed to be arm’s length in nature. The Company intends that its dealings with its TRSs will be on an arm’s length basis. No assurances can be given, however, that the Internal Revenue Service will not assert a contrary position.The Company owns interests in multiple subsidiary REITs that have elected to be taxed as REITs under the Code.  These subsidiary REITs are subject to the various REIT qualification requirements and other limitations that are applicable to the Company.  If any of the Company’s subsidiary REITs were to fail to qualify as a REIT, then (i) the subsidiary REIT would become subject to federal income tax and (ii) the Company’s ownership of shares in such subsidiary REIT would cease to be a qualifying asset for purposes of the asset tests applicable to REITs.  If any of the Company’s subsidiary REITs were to fail to qualify as REITs, it is possible that the Company could also fail to qualify as a REIT. From time to time, the Company may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of its properties.  Under the Code, unless certain exceptions apply, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that the Company holds as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business could be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. Since the Company acquires properties for investment purposes, it does not believe that its occasional transfers or disposals of property should be treated as prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by the Company are prohibited transactions. If the Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then the Company would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to it from the prohibited transaction, and the Company’s ability to retain proceeds from real property sales may be jeopardized. Income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect the Company’s ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, no assurances can be given that the Company will be able to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT if the Company transferred or disposed of property in a transaction treated as a prohibited transaction.Dividends paid by REITs to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts or estates are generally not eligible for the reduced tax rate applicable to qualified dividends received from non-REIT corporations (the maximum rate on qualified dividends is 21Table of Contentscurrently 23.8%).  Rather, U.S. individual, trust or estate stockholders who receive dividends from a REIT that are not designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed on such dividends at ordinary income rates (at a current maximum rate of 43.4%).  This may cause investors to view REIT investments to be less attractive than investments in non-REIT corporations, which in turn may adversely affect the value of stock in REITs, including the Company’s stock.Non-U.S. investors that invest in the Company should be aware of the following U.S. federal income tax considerations in connection with such investment.  First, distributions by the Company from its current and accumulated earnings and profits are subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax in the hands of non-U.S. investors, unless the 30% is reduced by an applicable income tax treaty.  Such distributions may also be subject to a 30% withholding tax under the “Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act” (“FATCA”) unless a non-U.S. investor complies with certain requirements prescribed by FATCA.  Second, distributions by the Company that are attributable to gains from dispositions of U.S. real property (“capital gain dividends”) will be treated as income that is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business in the hands of a non-U.S. investor, such that a non-U.S. investor will have U.S. federal income tax payment and filing obligations with respect to capital gain dividends.  Furthermore, capital gain dividends may be subject to an additional 30% “branch profits tax” (which may be reduced by an applicable income tax treaty) in the hands of a non-U.S. investor that is a corporation.  Third, any gain derived by a non-U.S. investor on a disposition of such investor’s stock in the Company will subject such investor to U.S. federal income tax payment and filing requirements unless the Company is treated as a domestically-controlled REIT.  A REIT is “domestically controlled” if  less than 50% of the REIT’s capital stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence.  The Company believes that it is a domestically-controlled REIT, but no assurances can be given in this regard.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, even if the Company were not a domestically-controlled REIT, under a special exception non-U.S. investors should not have U.S. federal income tax payment and filing obligations on capital gain dividends or a disposition of their stock in the Company if (i) they did not own more than 10% of such stock at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of the disposition, and (ii) the Company’s stock continues to be regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States and certain other non-U.S. investors may also not be subject to these payment and filing obligations.  Non-U.S. investors should consult with their independent advisors as to the above U.S. tax considerations and other U.S. tax consequences of an investment in the Company’s stock, in light of their particular circumstances.The Company believes that its operating partnership, Essex Portfolio, L.P., will continue to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  As a partnership, Essex Portfolio, L.P. is not subject to U.S. federal income tax on its income.  Instead, each of its partners is required to pay tax on the partner’s allocable share of the income of Essex Portfolio, L.P.  No assurances can be given, however, that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge Essex Portfolio, L.P.’s status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge.  If the Internal Revenue Service were successful in treating Essex Portfolio, L.P. as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company could fail to meet the income tests and/or the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT.  Also, the failure of Essex Portfolio, L.P. to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for distribution to its partners.Item 1B