Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form
10-K.
    
    Item 1. Business
    
    OVERVIEW
    
    Essex
Property Trust, Inc. (“Essex” or the “Company”) is a Maryland corporation that
operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust
(“REIT”).  The Company owns all of its interest in its real estate
investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the “Operating
Partnership”).  The Company is the sole general partner of the
Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2009 owns a 92.3% general
partnership interest.   In this report, the terms “we,” “us” and
“our” refer to Essex Property Trust, its Operating Partnership and the Operating
Partnership’s subsidiaries.
    
    The
Company has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994 as the Company completed an
initial public offering on June 13, 1994.  In order to maintain
compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries
for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT
subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company.
    
    We are
engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition,
development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment
communities.  As of December 31, 2009, we owned or held an interest in
133 apartment communities, aggregating 27,248 units, located along the West
Coast, as well as five office buildings (totaling approximately 215,840 square
feet), and four active development projects with 581 units in various stages of
development (collectively, the “Portfolio”).
    
    The
Company’s website address is http://www.essexpropertytrust.com.  The
Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement
for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on our
website as soon as practicable after we file the reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
    
    BUSINESS
STRATEGIES
    
    The
following is a discussion of our business strategies in regards to real estate
investment and management.
    
    Business
Strategies
    
    Research Driven
Approach – We
believe that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth
begin with extensive regional economic research and local market
knowledge.
    
    Utilizing
a proprietary research model that we have developed over the last two decades,
we continually assess markets where we currently operate, as well as markets
where we consider future investment opportunities by evaluating the
following:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Markets
      in major metropolitan areas that have regional population primarily in
      excess of one million;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Constraints
      on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites
      where competing housing could be built; (ii) political growth barriers,
      such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and
      expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to
      development, such as mountains or
waterways;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Rental
      demand is enhanced by affordability of rents compared to expensive
      for-sale housing; and
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Housing
      demand that is based on proximity to jobs, high quality of life and
      related commuting factors, as well as potential job
  growth.
            
          
    
    
    Recognizing
that all real estate markets are cyclical, we regularly evaluate the results of
our regional economic, as well as our local market research, and adjust the
geographic focus of our portfolio accordingly. We seek to increase our portfolio
allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to
decrease such allocations in markets projected to have declining economic
conditions.  Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its
portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to
decrease such allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low
relative yields.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          1
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Property
Operations – We manage our communities by focusing on strategies that
will generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and
long-term asset appreciation. We intend to achieve this by utilizing the
strategies set forth below:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Property Management
      – The Chief
      Operating Officer, Senior Vice President of Operations, Divisional
      Managers, Regional Portfolio Managers and Area Managers are accountable
      for the performance and maintenance of the communities. They supervise,
      provide training for the on-site managers, review actual performance
      against budget, monitor market trends and prepare operating and capital
      budgets.
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Capital Preservation –
      The Capital and Maintenance department is responsible for the planning,
      budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at our
      communities.
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Business Planning and Control
      – Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with
      every investment decision.  These plans include benchmarks for
      future financial performance, based on collaborative discussions between
      on-site managers and senior
management.
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Development and Redevelopment
      – We focus on acquiring and developing apartment communities in
      supply constrained markets, and redeveloping our existing communities to
      improve the financial and physical aspects of our
    communities.
            
          
    
    
    CURRENT
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
    
    Acquisitions
of Real Estate
    
    Acquisitions
are an important component of our business plan, and during 2009, we completed
the acquisition of two communities totaling $43.0 million.
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              In
      December, the Company acquired Axis 2300 (formerly known as “DuPont
      Lofts”), a 115-unit condominium development project in Irvine, California
      for $27.0 million.  The project is 85 percent complete and will
      require an additional six months of construction and estimated remaining
      costs of development are $9.1 million, consisting primarily of unit
      interior finishes.  Following construction, the Company intends
      to operate the asset as an apartment community.  All units
      feature 11-foot ceilings, custom finishes, a washer and dryer and a
      fireplace.
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Also
      during December, the Company acquired Regency at Encino, a 75-unit
      community located in Encino, California for $16.0 million. The community
      features upgraded appliances and finishes in 51 of the
      units.  The Company intends to renovate the additional 24 units
      upon normal resident turnover.  All units feature 9-foot
      ceilings and a washer and dryer.
            
          
    
    
    In
November, the Company acquired a 3.6 acre site in Dublin, California for $5.0
million.  The land parcel is located adjacent to the Dublin Bay Area
Rapid Transit station, and the Company intends to pursue entitlements on this
land parcel for future development.
    
    The 2010
acquisition plan targets the purchase of up to $300 million of real
estate.
    
    Dispositions
of Real Estate
    
    As part
of our strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets
the Company continually evaluates all the communities and sell those which no
longer meet our strategic criteria.  The Company may use the capital
generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities or other
real estate investments, repurchase the Company’s common stock, or repay
debts.  The Company believes that the sale of these communities will
not have a material impact on our future results of operations or cash flows nor
will their sale materially affect our ongoing operations. Generally, the Company
seeks to have any impact of earnings dilution resulting from these dispositions
offset by the positive impact of its acquisitions, development and redevelopment
activities.
    
    In 2009,
in accordance with our strategic plan, the Company sold five apartment
communities for gross proceeds of $38.0 million for an aggregate gain of $8.6
million.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          2
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    The 2010
disposition plan targets the sale of up to $100 million of real
estate.
    
    Development
Pipeline
    
    The
Company defines development activities as new communities that are in various
stages of active development, or the community is in lease-up and phases of the
project are not completed.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company had
four development projects comprised of 581 units for an estimated cost of $216.1
million, of which $65.9 million remains to be expended.
    
    The Joule
Broadway project, a 295-unit development in Seattle, Washington had $26.7
million in estimated costs remaining to be funded in 2010 and such costs will be
funded by a construction loan that is variable based on LIBOR plus 155 basis
points and matures in June 2011 with two one-year extension options, exercisable
at the Company’s option.  The estimated remaining costs to be incurred
totaling $39.2 million for the other three active development projects including
Fourth & U, Tasman Retail Pad and Garage, and Axis 2300 will be financed by
the Company’s lines of credit.
    
    The
following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s consolidated
development pipeline:
    
    
      

             
      
             
      
             
             
             
             
            
              As
      of 12/31/09 ($ in millions)
            
             
          
             
      
             
      
             
             
             
             
            
              Incurred
            
             
             
            
              Estimated
            
             
             
            
              Estimated
            
             
          
            
              Development
      Pipeline
            
            
              Location
            
             
            
              Units
            
             
             
            
              Project
      Cost
            
             
             
            
              Remaining
      Cost
            
             
             
            
              Project
      Cost(1)
            
             
          
            
              Development Projects
            
             
      
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
          
            
              Fourth
      & U
            
            
              Berkeley,
      CA
            
             
             
            171
             
             
            $
            49.5
             
             
            $
            13.8
             
             
            $
            63.3
             
          
            
              Joule
      Brodway
            
            
              Seattle,
      WA
            
             
             
            295
             
             
             
            68.1
             
             
             
            26.7
             
             
             
            94.8
             
          
            
              Tasman
      Retail Pad and Garage
            
            
              Sunnyvale,
      CA
            
             
             
            -
             
             
             
            5.4
             
             
             
            16.3
             
             
             
            21.7
             
          
            
              Axis
      2300
            
            
              Irvine,
      CA
            
             
             
            115
             
             
             
            27.2
             
             
             
            9.1
             
             
             
            36.3
             
          
             
      
             
      
             
             
            581
             
             
             
            150.2
             
             
             
            65.9
             
             
             
            216.1
             
          
            
              Predevelopment
      projects
            
            
              various
            
             
             
            332
             
             
             
            53.7
             
             
             
            89.3
             
             
             
            143.0
             
          
            
              Land
      held for future development or sale
            
            
              various
            
             
             
            1,329
             
             
             
            71.1
             
             
             
            -
             
             
             
            71.1
             
          
            
              Development
      Pipeline
            
             
      
             
             
            2,242
             
             
            $
            275.0
             
             
            $
            155.2
             
             
            $
            430.2
             
          
    
    
    (1) Includes incurred costs and
estimated costs to complete these development projects.
    
    The
Company defines the predevelopment pipeline as proposed communities in
negotiation or in the entitlement process with a high likelihood of becoming
entitled development projects.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company
had two development projects aggregating 332 units that were classified as
predevelopment projects.  The estimated total cost of the
predevelopment pipeline at December 31, 2009 was $143.0 million, of which $89.3
million remains to be expended.   The Company may also acquire
land for future development purposes or sale.   The Company has
incurred $71.1 million in costs related to land held for future development or
sale aggregating 1,329 units as of December 31, 2009.
    
    Redevelopment
Pipeline
    
    The
Company defines redevelopment communities as existing properties owned or
recently acquired, which have been targeted for additional investment by the
Company with the expectation of increased financial returns through property
improvement.  During redevelopment, apartment units may not be
available for rent and, as a result, may have less than stabilized
operations.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company had ownership
interests in nine redevelopment communities aggregating 2,659 apartment units
with estimated redevelopment costs of $128.0 million, of which approximately
$41.6 million remains to be expended.
    
    Mortgage
Debt Transactions
    
    During
2009, the Company obtained fixed rate mortgage loans due in 10 years totaling
$176.6 million for an average interest rate of 5.8% and paid-off mortgage loans
totaling $23.6 million for an average interest rate of 6.9%.
    
    Lines
of Credit
    
    In the
fourth quarter, the Company entered into a new $200 million unsecured line of
credit facility and cancelled the existing $200 million unsecured facility which
was to mature in March 2010.  The new unsecured facility has a one
year maturity with two one-year extension options, exercisable at the Company’s
option, and the underlying interest rate on this unsecured facility is based on
a tiered rate structure tied to the Company's corporate ratings and is currently
at LIBOR plus 3.00%.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          3
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Also in
the fourth quarter, the Company exercised its option to increase the borrowing
capacity of the secured line of credit facility from $150 million to $250
million which matures in December 2013.
    
    Equity
and Noncontrolling Interest Transactions
    
    During
the first quarter of 2009, the Company, under its stock repurchase program,
repurchased and retired 350,000 shares of its common stock for approximately
$20.3 million, at an average stock price of $57.89 per share.
    
    During
2009, the Company issued 2,740,450 shares of common stock at an average share
price of $73.54 for $198.5 million, net of fees and commissions.  The
Company used the net proceeds to invest in marketable securities and to fund the
development pipeline.
    
    During
2009, the Company repurchased $145.0 million of 4.875% Series G Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock at a discount to par value of $50.0
million.
    
    ESSEX
APARTMENT VALUE FUND II
    
    Essex
Apartment Value Fund II, L.P. (“Fund II”) is an investment fund formed by the
Company to add value through rental growth and asset appreciation, utilizing the
Company's development, redevelopment and asset management
capabilities.
    
    Fund II
has eight institutional investors, and the Company, with combined partner equity
commitments of $265.9 million which were fully contributed as of December
2008.  The Company contributed $75.0 million to Fund II, which
represents a 28.2% interest as general partner and limited partner, and the
Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investment in Fund
II.  Fund II utilized leverage equal to approximately 55% upon the
initial acquisition of the underlying real estate.  Fund II invested
in apartment communities in the Company’s targeted West Coast markets and, as of
December 31, 2009, owned fourteen apartment communities.  The
Company records revenue for its asset management, property management,
development and redevelopment services when earned, and promote income when
realized if Fund II exceeds certain financial return benchmarks.
    
    OFFICES
AND EMPLOYEES
    
    The
Company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California, and has regional offices in
Woodland Hills, California; Irvine, California; San Diego, California and
Bellevue, Washington. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 938
employees.
    
    INSURANCE
    
    The
Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss
insurance for each of the communities.  Insured risks for
comprehensive liabilities covers claims in excess of $25,000 per incident, and
property casualty insurance covers losses in excess of a $5.0 million deductible
per incident. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such
as, for example, losses from terrorism and earthquakes, for which the Company
does not have insurance.  Substantially all of the communities are
located in areas that are subject to earthquakes.
    
    The
Company believes it has a proactive approach to its potential earthquake
losses.  The Company utilizes third-party seismic consultants for its
acquisitions and may perform seismic upgrades to those acquisitions that are
determined to have a higher level of potential loss from an
earthquake.  The Company utilizes third-party loss models to help to
determine its exposure.  The majority of the communities are lower
density garden-style apartments which may be less susceptible to material
earthquake damage.  The Company will continue to monitor third-party
earthquake insurance pricing and conditions and may consider obtaining
third-party coverage if it deems it cost effective.
    
    Although
the Company may carry insurance for potential losses associated with its
communities, employees, residents, and compliance with applicable laws, it may
still incur losses due to uninsured risks, deductibles, co-payments or losses in
excess of applicable insurance coverage and those losses may be
material.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          4
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    COMPETITION
    
    There are
numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company’s communities in
attracting residents.  These include other apartment communities and
single-family homes that are available for rent in the markets in which the
apartment communities are located.  The communities also compete for
residents with new and existing homes and condominiums that are for
sale.  If the demand for our communities is reduced or if competitors
develop and/or acquire competing apartment communities on a more cost-effective
basis, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse
affect on our financial condition and results of operations.
    
    The
Company faces competition from other real estate investment trusts, businesses
and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment
communities.  Some competitors are larger and have greater financial
resources than the Company.  This competition may result in increased
costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and/or
develops.
    
    WORKING
CAPITAL
    
    The
Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and
marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit,
access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition
of real estate are sufficient to meet all of our reasonably anticipated cash
needs during 2010.  The timing, source and amounts of cash flows
provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive
to changes in interest rates and other fluctuations in the capital markets
environment, which can affect our plans for acquisitions, dispositions,
development and redevelopment activities.
    
    ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS
    
    See the
discussion under the caption, “The Company’s Portfolio may have
unknown environmental liabilities” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for
information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on our
operations.
    
    OTHER
MATTERS
    
    Certain
Policies of the Company
    
    We intend
to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject us to regulation under
the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company has in the past five years and
may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund
acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer
shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the
Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for
property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership
interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly
through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities’ underlying assets are
real estate.
    
    We invest
primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal
markets within Southern California, the San Francisco Bay Area, and the Seattle
metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in
apartment communities in such regions.  However, these practices may
be reviewed and modified periodically by management.
    
    Item 1A. Risk Factors
    
    Our
business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to
various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth
below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from
recent results or from our anticipated future results.
    
    We depend on our
key personnel.   Our success depends on our ability to attract
and retain executive officers, senior officers and company managers. There is
substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and
the loss of any of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on the
Company.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          5
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Capital and
credit market conditions may affect our access to sources of capital and/or the
cost of capital, which could negatively affect our business, results of
operations, cash flows and financial condition.  Over the past
two years, the
Company’s financing activities have been impacted by the instability and
tightening in the credit markets which has led to an increase in spreads and
pricing of secured debt, unsecured debt, and lines of credit.  The
Company’s strong balance sheet, the debt capacity available on the unsecured
line of credit with a bank group and the secured line of credit with Freddie
Mac, and access to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac secured debt financing have
provided some insulation to the Company from the turmoil being experienced by
many other real estate companies.  The Company has benefited from
borrowing from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and there are no assurances that
these entities will lend to the Company in the future.  Continued
turmoil in the capital markets and further job losses could negatively impact
the Company’s ability to make acquisitions, develop communities, obtain new
financing, and refinance existing borrowing at competitive rates.
    
    Debt financing
has inherent risks.  At December 31, 2009, we had approximately
$1.85 billion of indebtedness (including $490.6 million of variable rate
indebtedness, of which $197.1 million is subject to interest rate protection
agreements). We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt
financing, including the following:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              cash
      flow may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and
      interest;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              inability
      to refinance maturing indebtedness on encumbered apartment
      communities;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              inability
      to comply with debt covenants could cause an acceleration of the maturity
      date; and
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              repaying
      debt before the scheduled maturity date could result in prepayment
      penalties.
            
          
    
    
    The Company is
uncertain about its ability to refinance balloon payments.  As
of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.85 billion of mortgage loans,
exchangeable bonds and line of credit borrowings, most of which are subject to
balloon payments (see Notes 7 and 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements for more details).  We do not expect to have sufficient
cash flows from operations to make all of these balloon payments.
    
    We may
not be able to refinance such mortgage indebtedness, bonds, or lines of
credit.  The communities subject to these mortgages could be
foreclosed upon or otherwise transferred to the lender.  This could
cause us to lose income and asset value.  We may be required to
refinance the debt at higher interest rates or on terms that may not be as
favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness.
    
    Debt financing of
communities may result in insufficient cash flow to service
debt.  Where possible, we intend to continue to use leverage to
increase the rate of return on our investments and to provide for additional
investments that we could not otherwise make.  There is a risk that
the cash flow from the communities will be insufficient to meet both debt
payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the real estate
investment trust provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.  We may
obtain additional debt financing in the future through mortgages on some or all
of the communities.  These mortgages may be recourse, non-recourse, or
cross-collateralized.
    
    As of
December 31, 2009, the Company had 77 of its 118 consolidated communities
encumbered by debt.  Of the 77 communities, 61 are secured by deeds of
trust relating solely to those communities.  With respect to the
remaining 16 communities, there are 3 cross-collateralized mortgages secured by
11 communities, 3 communities, and 2 communities, respectively.  The
holders of this indebtedness will have rights with respect to these communities
and, to the extent indebtedness is cross-collateralized, lenders may seek to
foreclose upon communities which are not the primary collateral for their
loan.  This may accelerate other indebtedness secured by
communities.  Foreclosure of communities would reduce our income and
net asset value.
    
    Rising interest
rates may affect our costs of capital and financing activities and results of
operation.  Interest rates could increase rapidly, which could
result in higher interest expense on our variable rate
indebtedness.  Prolonged interest rate increases could negatively
impact our ability to make acquisitions and develop apartment communities with
positive economic returns on investment and our ability to refinance existing
borrowings.
    
    Interest rate
hedging arrangements may result in losses.   Periodically, we
have entered into agreements to reduce the risks associated with increases in
interest rates, and may continue to do so.  Although these agreements
may partially protect against rising interest rates, they also may reduce the
benefits to us if interest rates decline.  If a hedging arrangement is
not indexed to the same rate as the indebtedness that is hedged, we may be
exposed to losses to the extent that the rate governing the indebtedness and the
rate governing the hedging arrangement change independently of each
other.  Finally, nonperformance by the other party to the hedging
arrangement may subject us to increased credit risks.  In order to
minimize counterparty credit risk, our policy is to enter into hedging
arrangements only with A-rated financial institutions.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          6
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Bond compliance
requirements may limit income from certain communities.   At
December 31, 2009, we had approximately $214.1 million of variable rate
tax-exempt financing relating to the following apartment communities: Inglenook
Court, Wandering Creek, Boulevard, Huntington Breakers, Camarillo Oaks, Fountain
Park, Anchor Village, Hidden Valley and Belmont Station.  This
tax-exempt financing subjects these communities to certain deed restrictions and
restrictive covenants.  We expect to engage in tax-exempt financings
in the future.  The Internal Revenue Code and rules and regulations
thereunder impose various restrictions, conditions and requirements excluding
interest on qualified bond obligations from gross income for federal income tax
purposes.  The Internal Revenue Code also requires that at least 20%
of apartment units be made available to residents with gross incomes that do not
exceed a specified percentage, generally 50%, of the median income for the
applicable family size as determined by the Housing and Urban Development
Department of the federal government.  In addition to federal
requirements, certain state and local authorities may impose additional rental
restrictions.  These restrictions may limit income from the tax-exempt
financed communities if we are required to lower rental rates to attract
residents who satisfy the median income test.  If the Company does not
reserve the required number of apartment homes for residents satisfying these
income requirements, the tax-exempt status of the bonds may be terminated, the
obligations under the bond documents may be accelerated and we may be subject to
additional contractual liability.
    
    General real
estate investment risks may adversely affect property income and
values.   Real estate investments are subject to a variety of
risks.  The yields available from equity investments in real estate
depend on the amount of income generated and expenses incurred.  If
the communities do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses,
including debt service and capital expenditures, cash flow and the ability to
make distributions to stockholders will be adversely affected.  Income
from the communities may be further adversely affected by, among other things,
the following factors:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      general economic climate;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              local
      economic conditions in which the communities are located, such as
      oversupply of housing or a reduction in demand for rental
      housing;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      attractiveness of the communities to
tenants;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              competition
      from other available housing; and
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      Company’s ability to provide for adequate maintenance and
      insurance.
            
          
    
    
    As leases
at the communities expire, tenants may enter into new leases on terms that are
less favorable to us. Income and real estate values also may be adversely
affected by such factors as applicable laws (e.g., the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and tax laws).  Real estate investments are
relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to vary our portfolio promptly
in response to changes in economic or other conditions may be quite
limited.
    
    National and
regional economic environments can negatively impact our operating
results.  During the past two years, a confluence of factors
has resulted in job losses, turmoil and volatility in the capital markets, and
caused a national and global recession.  The Company's forecast for
the national economy assumes the return of growth, with estimated gross domestic
product growth of the national economy and the economies of the western
states.  In the event of a continued recession, the Company could
incur continued reduction in rental rates, occupancy levels, property valuations
and increases in operating costs such as advertising and turnover
expenses.
    
    Inflation/Deflation
may affect rental rates and operating expenses. Substantial
inflationary or deflationary pressures could have a negative effect on rental
rates and property operating expenses.
    
    Acquisitions of
communities may fail to meet expectations.  The Company intends
to continue to acquire apartment communities.  However, there are
risks that acquisitions will fail to meet our expectations.  The
Company’s estimates of future income, expenses and the costs of improvements or
redevelopment that are necessary to allow us to market an acquired apartment
community as originally intended may prove to be inaccurate.  We
expect to finance future acquisitions, in whole or in part, under various forms
of secured or unsecured financing or through the issuance of partnership units
by the Operating Partnership or related partnerships or additional equity by the
Company.  The use of equity financing, rather than debt, for future
developments or acquisitions could dilute the interest of the Company’s existing
stockholders.  If we finance new acquisitions under existing lines of
credit, there is a risk that, unless we obtain substitute financing, the Company
may not be able to secure further lines of credit for new development or such
lines of credit may be not available on advantageous terms.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          7
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Development and
redevelopment activities may be delayed, not completed, and/or not achieve
expected results.   We pursue development and
redevelopment projects and these projects generally require various governmental
and other approvals, which have no assurance of being received.  The
Company’s development and redevelopment activities generally entail certain
risks, including the following:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              funds
      may be expended and management's time devoted to projects that may not be
      completed;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              construction
      costs of a project may exceed original estimates possibly making the
      project economically unfeasible;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              projects
      may be delayed due to, without limitation, adverse weather
      conditions;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              occupancy
      rates and rents at a completed project may be less than anticipated;
      and
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              expenses
      at completed development projects may be higher than
      anticipated.
            
          
    
    
    These
risks may reduce the funds available for distribution to the Company’s
stockholders.  Further, the development and redevelopment of
communities is also subject to the general risks associated with real estate
investments. For further information regarding these risks, please see the risk
factor “General real estate
investment risks may adversely affect property income and
values.”
    
    The geographic
concentration of the Company’s communities and fluctuations in local markets may
adversely impact our financial condition and operating
results.  The Company generated significant amounts of rental
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, from our communities concentrated
in Southern California (Los Angeles, Orange, Santa Barbara, San Diego, and
Ventura counties), Northern California (the San Francisco Bay Area), and the
Seattle metropolitan area. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 81% of the
Company’s rental revenues were generated from communities located in
California.  This geographic concentration could present risks if
local property market performance falls below expectations. The economic
condition of these markets could affect occupancy, property revenues, and
expenses, from the communities and their underlying asset values.  The
financial results of major local employers also may impact the cash flow and
value of certain of the communities.  This could have a negative
impact on our financial condition and operating results, which could affect our
ability to pay expected dividends to our stockholders.
    
    Competition in
the apartment community market may adversely affect operations and the rental
demand for our communities.  There are numerous housing
alternatives that compete with our communities in attracting
residents.  These include other apartment communities and
single-family homes that are available for rent in the markets in which the
communities are located.  If the demand for our communities is reduced
or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing apartment communities on a
more cost-effective basis, rental rates may drop, which may have a material
adverse affect on our financial condition and results of
operations.  We also face competition from other real estate
investment trusts, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development
and operation of apartment communities.  This competition may result
in an increase in costs and prices of apartment communities that we acquire
and/or develop.
    
    The price per
share of the Company’s stock may fluctuate significantly.  The
market price per share of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly
in response to many factors, including:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              national
      and global economic conditions;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              actual
      or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or
      dividends;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              changes
      in our funds from operations or earnings
  estimates;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              issuances
      of common stock, preferred stock or convertible debt
      securities;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              publication
      of research reports about us or the real estate
  industry;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the attractiveness
      of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities
      (including securities issued by other real estate based
      companies);
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              general
      stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on
      fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of our stock
      to demand a higher annual yield from
dividends;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              availability
      to credit markets and cost of
credit;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              a
      change in analyst ratings or our credit ratings;
  and
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              terrorist
      activity may adversely affect the markets in which our securities trade,
      possibly increasing market volatility and causing erosion of business and
      consumer confidence and spending.
            
          
    
    
    Many of
the factors listed above are beyond the Company’s control.  These
factors may cause the market price of shares of the Company’s common stock to
decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, or
business prospects.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          8
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    The Company’s
future issuances of common stock, preferred stock or convertible debt securities
could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  In order to
finance our acquisition and development activities, we have issued and sold
common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt securities.  For
example, during 2009 and 2008, the Company issued and sold 2,740,450 and
1,209,050 shares of common stock for $198.5 million and $142.8 million, net of
fees and commissions, respectively.  The Company may in the future
sell further shares of common stock, including pursuant to its controlled equity
offering program with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co.
    
    In 2007,
the Company filed a new shelf registration statement with the SEC, allowing the
Company to sell an undetermined number of equity and debt securities as defined
in the prospectus.  Future sales of common stock, preferred stock or
convertible debt securities may dilute stockholder ownership in the Company and
could adversely affect the market price of the common stock.
    
    The Company’s
Chairman is involved in other real estate activities and investments, which may
lead to conflicts of interest.   Our Chairman, George M.
Marcus is not an employee of the Company, and is involved in other real estate
activities and investments, which may lead to conflicts of interest. Mr. Marcus
owns interests in various other real estate-related businesses and
investments.  He is the Chairman of The Marcus & Millichap Company
(“TMMC”), which is a holding company for certain real estate brokerage and
services companies.  TMMC has an interest in Pacific Property Company,
a company that invests in apartment communities.
    
    Mr.
Marcus has agreed not to divulge any information that may be received by him in
his capacity as Chairman of the Company to any of his affiliated companies and
that he will abstain his vote on any and all resolutions by the Company Board of
Directors regarding any proposed acquisition and/or development of an apartment
community where it appears that there may be a conflict of interest with any of
his affiliated companies.  Notwithstanding this agreement, Mr. Marcus
and his affiliated entities may potentially compete with us in acquiring and/or
developing apartment communities, which competition may be detrimental to
us.  In addition, due to such potential competition for real estate
investments, Mr. Marcus and his affiliated entities may have a conflict of
interest with us, which may be detrimental to the interests of the Company’s
stockholders.
    
    The influence of
executive officers, directors and significant stockholders may be detrimental to
holders of common stock.  As of December 31, 2009, George M.
Marcus, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, wholly or partially owned
1,774,375 shares of common stock (including shares issuable upon exchange of
limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and certain other
partnerships and assuming exercise of all vested options). This represents
approximately 5.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Mr. Marcus
currently does not have majority control over us.  However, he
currently has, and likely will continue to have, significant influence with
respect to the election of directors and approval or disapproval of significant
corporate actions.  Consequently, his influence could result in
decisions that do not reflect the interests of all our
stockholders.
    
    Under the
partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, the consent of the holders
of limited partnership interests is generally required for any amendment of the
agreement and for certain extraordinary actions.  Through their
ownership of limited partnership interests and their positions with us, our
directors and executive officers, including Mr. Marcus, have substantial
influence on us.  Consequently, their influence could result in
decisions that do not reflect the interests of all stockholders.
    
    The voting rights
of preferred stock may allow holders of preferred stock to impede actions that
otherwise benefit holders of common stock. In general, the holders
of our outstanding shares of preferred stock do not have any voting rights.
However, if full distributions are not made on any outstanding preferred stock
for six quarterly distributions periods, the holders of preferred stock who have
not received distributions, voting together as a single class, will have the
right to elect two additional directors to serve on our Board of
Directors.
    
    These
voting rights continue until all distributions in arrears and distributions for
the current quarterly period on the preferred stock have been paid in full. At
that time, the holders of the preferred stock are divested of these voting
rights, and the term and office of the directors so elected immediately
terminates. While any shares of our preferred stock are outstanding, the Company
may not, without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding
shares of each series of preferred stock, each voting separately as a single
class:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              authorize
      or create any class or series of stock that ranks senior to such preferred
      stock with respect to the payment of dividends, rights upon liquidation,
      dissolution or winding-up of our
business;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              amend,
      alter or repeal the provisions of the Company’s Charter or Bylaws,
      including by merger or consolidation, that would materially and adversely
      affect the rights of such series of preferred stock;
  or
            
          
    
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              in
      the case of the preferred stock into which our preferred units are
      exchangeable, merge or consolidate with another entity or transfer
      substantially all of its assets to another entity, except if such
      preferred stock remains outstanding with the surviving entity and has the
      same terms and in certain other
circumstances.
            
          
    
    
    These
voting rights of the preferred stock may allow holders of preferred stock to
impede or veto actions that would otherwise benefit the holders of our common
stock.
    
    The redemption
rights of the Series B preferred units and Series F preferred stock may be
detrimental to holders of the Company’s common stock.  Upon the
occurrence of one of the following events, the terms of the Operating
Partnership’s Series B Preferred Units require it to redeem all of such units
and the terms of the Company’s Series F Preferred Stock provide the holders of
the majority of the outstanding Series F Preferred Stock the right to require
the Company to redeem all of such stock:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      Company completes a “going private” transaction and its common stock is no
      longer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
      amended;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      Company completes a consolidation or merger or sale of substantially all
      of its assets and the surviving entity’s debt securities do not possess an
      investment grade rating;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      Company fails to qualify as a REIT.
            
          
    
    
    The
aggregate redemption price of the Series B Preferred Units would be $80 million
and the aggregate redemption price of the Series F Preferred Stock would be $25
million, plus, in each case, any accumulated distributions.
    
    These
redemption rights may discourage or impede transactions that might otherwise be
in the interest of holders of common stock.  Further, these redemption
rights might trigger situations where the Company needs to conserve its cash
reserves, in which event such redemption might adversely affect the Company and
its common holders.
    
    The Maryland
business combination law may not allow certain transactions between the Company
and its affiliates to proceed without compliance with such law.  Under Maryland
law, “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested
stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five
years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an
interested stockholder.  These business combinations include a merger,
consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an
asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity
securities.  An interested stockholder is defined as any person (and
certain affiliates of such person) who beneficially owns ten percent or more of
the voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock.  The law also
requires a supermajority stockholder vote for such transactions. This means that
the transaction must be approved by at least:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              80%
      of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares;
      and
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Two-thirds
      of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares
      other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom the
      business combination is to be
effected.
            
          
    
    
    The
statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business
combinations that are exempted by the board of directors prior to the time that
the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder.  These
voting provisions do not apply if the stockholders receive a minimum price, as
defined under Maryland law.  As permitted by the statute, the Board of
Directors of the Company irrevocably has elected to exempt any business
combination by the Company, George M. Marcus, who is the chairman of the
Company, and TMMC or any entity owned or controlled by Mr. Marcus and TMMC.
Consequently, the five-year prohibition and supermajority vote requirement
described above will not apply to any business combination between the Company,
Mr. Marcus, or TMMC.  As a result, the Company may in the future enter
into business combinations with Mr. Marcus and TMMC, without compliance with the
supermajority vote requirements and other provisions of the Maryland General
Corporation Law.
    
    Anti-takeover
provisions contained in the Operating Partnership agreement, charter, bylaws,
and certain provisions of Maryland law could delay, defer or prevent a change in
control.  While the Company
is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, and generally has full
and exclusive responsibility and discretion in the management and control of the
Operating Partnership, certain provisions of the Operating Partnership agreement
place limitations on the Company’s ability to act with respect to the Operating
Partnership.  Such limitations could delay, defer or prevent a
transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our
stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders or that could
otherwise adversely affect the interest of the Company’s
stockholders.  The partnership agreement provides that if the limited
partners own at least 5% of the outstanding units of partnership interest in the
Operating Partnership, the Company cannot, without first obtaining the consent
of a majority-in-interest of the limited partners in the Operating Partnership,
transfer all or any portion of our general partner interest in the Operating
Partnership to another entity.  Such limitations on the Company’s
ability to act may result in our being precluded from taking action that the
Board of Directors believes is in the best interests of the Company’s
stockholders.  As of December 31, 2009, the limited partners held or
controlled approximately 7.7% of the outstanding units of partnership interest
in the Operating Partnership, allowing such actions to be blocked by the limited
partners.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    The
Company’s Charter authorizes the issuance of additional shares of common stock
or preferred stock and the setting of the preferences, rights and other terms of
such preferred stock without the approval of the holders of the common
stock.  We may establish one or more series of preferred stock that
could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in
control.  Such a transaction might involve a premium price for our
stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the holders of common
stock.  Also, such a class of preferred stock could have dividend,
voting or other rights that could adversely affect the interest of holders of
common stock.
    
    The
Company’s Charter contains other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a
transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of the
Company’s stockholders.  The Charter contains ownership provisions
limiting the transferability and ownership of shares of capital stock, which may
have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change
in control.  For example, subject to receiving an exemption from the
Board of Directors, potential acquirers may not purchase more than 6% in value
of the stock (other than qualified pension trusts which can acquire 9.9%). This
may discourage tender offers that may be attractive to the holders of common
stock and limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their
shares of common stock.
    
    The
Maryland General Corporations Law restricts the voting rights of shares deemed
to be “control shares.”   Under the Maryland General Corporations
Law, “control shares” are those which, when aggregated with any other shares
held by the acquirer, entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power within
specified ranges.  Although the Bylaws exempt the Company from the
control share provisions of the Maryland General Corporations Law, the Board of
Directors may amend or eliminate the provisions of the Bylaws at any time in the
future. Moreover, any such amendment or elimination of such provision of the
Bylaws may result in the application of the control share provisions of the
Maryland General Corporations Law not only to control shares which may be
acquired in the future, but also to control shares previously
acquired.  If the provisions of the Bylaws are amended or eliminated,
the control share provisions of the Maryland General Corporations Law could
delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that might involve a
premium price for the stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the
Company’s stockholders.
    
    Our
Charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may impede various actions
by stockholders without approval of our board of directors, which in turn may
delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in
control.  Those provisions include:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      Company’s directors have terms of office of three years and the board of
      directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms; as a result,
      less than a majority of directors are up for re-election to the board in
      any one year;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              directors
      may be removed, without cause, only upon a two-thirds vote of
      stockholders, and with cause, only upon a majority vote of
      stockholders;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      Company’s board can fix the number of directors and fill vacant
      directorships upon the vote of a majority of the
  directors;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              stockholders
      must give advance notice to nominate directors or propose business for
      consideration at a stockholders’ meeting;
and
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              for
      stockholders to call a special meeting, the meeting must be requested by
      not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the
      meeting.
            
          
    
    
    The Company’s
joint ventures and joint ownership of communities and partial interests in
corporations and limited partnerships could limit the Company’s ability to
control such communities and partial interests.   Instead of
purchasing apartment communities directly, we have invested and may continue to
invest in joint ventures.  Joint venture partners often have shared
control over the operation of the joint venture assets.  Therefore, it
is possible that a joint venture partner in an investment might become bankrupt,
or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our
business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our
instructions or requests, or our policies or
objectives.  Consequently, a joint venture partners’ actions might
subject property owned by the joint venture to additional
risk.  Although we seek to maintain sufficient influence over any
joint venture to achieve its objectives, we may be unable to take action without
our joint venture partners’ approval, or joint venture partners could take
actions binding on the joint venture without our
consent.   Should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we
could become liable for such partner’s share of joint venture
liabilities.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          11
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    From time
to time, the Company, through the Operating Partnership, invests in
corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability companies or other
entities that have been formed for the purpose of acquiring, developing or
managing real property.  In certain circumstances, the Operating
Partnership’s interest in a particular entity may be less than a majority of the
outstanding voting interests of that entity.  Therefore, the Operating
Partnership’s ability to control the daily operations of such an entity may be
limited. Furthermore, the Operating Partnership may not have the power to remove
a majority of the board of directors (in the case of a corporation) or the
general partner or partners (in the case of a limited partnership) of such an
entity in the event that its operations conflict with the Operating
Partnership’s objectives.  The Operating Partnership may not be able
to dispose of its interests in such an entity. In the event that such an entity
becomes insolvent, the Operating Partnership may lose up to its entire
investment in and any advances to the entity.  We have, and in the
future may, enter into transactions that could require us to pay the tax
liabilities of partners, which contribute assets into joint ventures or the
Operating Partnership, in the event that certain taxable events, which are
within our control, occur.  Although we plan to hold the contributed
assets or defer recognition of gain on their sale pursuant to the like-kind
exchange rules under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code, we can provide
no assurance that we will be able to do so and if such tax liabilities were
incurred they can expect to have a material impact on our financial
position.
    
    There are risks
that Fund II may operate in ways that may adversely impact the Company’s
interests.  The Company is the general partner of Fund II, and
with Fund II there are the following risks:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      Company’s partners in Fund II might remove the Company as the general
      partner of Fund II;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      Company’s  partners in Fund II might have economic or business
      interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or
      goals; or
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      Company’s partners in Fund II might fail to approve decisions regarding
      Fund II that are in the Company’s best
interest.
            
          
    
    
    Investments in
mortgages and other real estate securities could affect our ability to make
distributions to stockholders.  The Company may invest in
securities related to real estate, which could adversely affect our ability to
make distributions to stockholders.  The Company may purchase
securities issued by entities which own real estate and invest in mortgages or
unsecured debt obligations.  These mortgages may be first, second or
third mortgages that may or may not be insured or otherwise
guaranteed.  In general, investments in mortgages include the
following risks:
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              that
      the value of mortgaged property may be less than the amounts owed, causing
      realized or unrealized losses;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      borrower may not pay indebtedness under the mortgage when due, requiring
      us to foreclose, and the amount recovered in connection with the
      foreclosure may be less than the amount
owed;
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              that
      interest rates payable on the mortgages may be lower than our cost of
      funds; and
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              in
      the case of junior mortgages, that foreclosure of a senior mortgage could
      eliminate the junior mortgage.
            
          
    
    
    If any of
the above were to occur, cash flows from operations and our ability to make
expected dividends to stockholders could be adversely affected.
    
    Compliance with
laws benefiting disabled persons may require us to make significant
unanticipated expenditures or impact our investment strategy. A number of
federal, state and local laws (including the Americans with Disabilities Act)
and regulations exist that may require modifications to existing buildings or
restrict certain renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by
disabled persons and may require other structural features which add to the cost
of buildings under construction.  Legislation or regulations adopted
in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to
improved access by disabled persons.  The costs of compliance with
these laws and regulations may be substantial.
    
    The Company’s
Portfolio may have unknown environmental liabilities.   Under
various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or
operator of real estate is liable for the costs of removal or remediation of
certain hazardous or toxic substances on, in, to or migrating from such
property.  Such laws often impose liability without regard as to
whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of
such hazardous or toxic substances.  The presence of such substances,
or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the
owner’s or operator’s ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using
such property as collateral.  Persons exposed to such substances,
either through soil vapor or ingestion of the substances may claim personal
injury damages.  Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of
hazardous or toxic substances or wastes also may be liable for the costs of
removal or remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment facility
to which such substances or wastes were sent, whether or not such facility is
owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability
for release of asbestos-containing materials (“ACMs”) into the air, and third
parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of apartment communities for
personal injury associated with ACMs.  In connection with the
ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management and development of
apartment communities, the Company could be considered an owner or operator of
such properties or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous
or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or
remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines
and costs related to injuries of persons and property.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Investments
in real property create a potential for environmental liabilities on the part of
the owner of such real property.  We carry certain limited insurance
coverage for this type of environmental risk.  We have conducted
environmental studies which revealed the presence of groundwater contamination
at certain communities.  Such contamination at certain of these
apartment communities was reported to have migrated on-site from adjacent
industrial manufacturing operations.  The former industrial users of
the communities were identified as the source of contamination.  The
environmental studies noted that certain communities are located adjacent to
possible down gradient from sites with known groundwater contamination, the
lateral limits of which may extend onto such apartment
communities.  The environmental studies also noted that at certain of
these apartment communities, contamination existed because of the presence of
underground fuel storage tanks, which have been removed.  In general,
in connection with the ownership, operation, financing, management and
development of apartment communities we may be potentially liable for removal or
clean-up costs, as well as certain other costs and environmental
liabilities.  The Company may also be subject to governmental fines
and costs related to injuries to persons and property.
    
    There has
been a number of lawsuits in recent years against owners and managers of
apartment communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the
presence of mold in residential real estate.  Some of these lawsuits
have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements.  The
Company has been sued for mold related matters and has settled some, but not
all, of such matters.   Insurance carriers have reacted to mold
related liability awards by excluding mold related claims from standard policies
and pricing mold endorsements at prohibitively high rates.  The
Company has, however, purchased pollution liability insurance, which includes
some coverage for mold.  The Company has adopted policies for promptly
addressing and resolving reports of mold when it is detected, and to minimize
any impact mold might have on residents of the property.  The Company
believes its mold policies and proactive response to address any known
existence, reduces its risk of loss from these cases.  There can be no
assurances that the Company has identified and responded to all mold
occurrences, but the company promptly addresses all known reports of
mold.  Liabilities resulting from such mold related matters are not
expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.  As of December 31, 2009,
potential liabilities for mold and other environmental liabilities are not
considered probable or the loss cannot be quantified or estimated.
    
    California
has enacted legislation commonly referred to as “Proposition 65” requiring that
“clear and reasonable” warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to
chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer or reproductive
toxicity, including tobacco smoke.  Although we have sought to comply
with Proposition 65 requirements, we cannot assure you that we will not be
adversely affected by litigation relating to Proposition 65.
    
    Methane
gas is a naturally-occurring gas that is commonly found below the surface in
several areas, particularly in the Southern California coastal
areas.  Methane is a non-toxic gas, but can be ignitable in confined
spaces.  Although naturally-occurring, methane gas is not regulated at
the state or federal level, however some local governments, such as the County
of Los Angeles, have imposed requirements that new buildings install detection
systems in areas where methane gas is known to be
located.    Methane gas is also associated with certain
industrial activities, such as former municipal waste
landfills.  Radon is also a naturally-occurring gas that is found
below the surface.  The Company cannot assure you that it will not be
adversely affected by costs related to its compliance with methane or radon gas
related requirements or litigation costs related to methane or radon
gas.
    
    The
Company has almost no indemnification agreements from third parties for
potential environmental clean-up costs at its communities.  The
Company has no way of determining at this time the magnitude of any potential
liability to which it may be subject arising out of unknown environmental
conditions or violations with respect to communities formerly owned by the
Company.  No assurance can be given that existing environmental
studies with respect to any of the communities reveal all environmental
liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of an apartment community did not
create any material environmental condition not known to the Company, or that a
material environmental condition does not exist as to any one or more of the
communities.  The Company has limited insurance coverage for the types
of environmental liabilities described above.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          13
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    The Company may
incur general uninsured losses.  The Company carries
comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance for
each of the communities.  There are, however, certain types of
extraordinary losses, such as, for example, losses for terrorism or earthquake,
for which the Company does not have insurance coverage.  Substantially
all of the communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquake
activity.  In January 2007, the Company canceled its then existing
earthquake policy and established a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific
Western Insurance LLC (“PWI”).  Through PWI, the Company is
self-insured as it relates to earthquake related
losses.  Additionally, since January 2008, PWI has provided property
and casualty insurance coverage for the first $5.0 million of the Company’s
property level insurance claims per incident.
    
    Although
the Company may carry insurance for potential losses associated with its
communities, employees, residents, and compliance with applicable laws, it may
still incur losses due to uninsured risks, deductibles, co-payments or losses in
excess of applicable insurance coverage and those losses may be
material.  In the event of a substantial loss, insurance coverage may
not be able to cover the full replacement cost of the Company’s lost investment,
or the insurance carrier may become insolvent and not be able to cover the full
amount of the insured losses.  Inflation, changes in building codes
and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also affect
the Company’s ability to replace or renovate an apartment community after it has
been damaged or destroyed.
    
    Changes in real
estate tax and other laws may adversely affect the Company’s results of
operations.  Generally we do not directly pass through costs
resulting from changes in real estate tax laws to residential property
tenants.  We also do not generally pass through increases in income,
service or other taxes, to tenants under leases. These costs may adversely
affect funds from operations and the ability to make distributions to
stockholders.  Similarly, compliance with changes in (i) laws
increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on
apartment communities or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions or
(ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating housing
may result in significant unanticipated decrease in revenue or increase in
expenditures, which would adversely affect funds from operations and the ability
to make distributions to stockholders.
    
    Changes in the
Company’s financing policy may lead to higher levels of
indebtedness.  The Company has adopted a policy of maintaining
a limit on debt financing to a maximum of a 50% debt to total market
capitalization and to be consistent with the existing covenants required to
maintain the Company’s unsecured line of credit bank facility.  The
Company’s organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of
indebtedness that may be incurred.  If the Company changed this
policy, the Company could incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk
of default on our obligations and the obligations of the Operating Partnership,
and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.  Such increased debt
could exceed the underlying value of the communities.
    
    The Company is
subject to various tax risks.  The Company has elected to be
taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company’s qualification as
a REIT requires it to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and
quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Internal Revenue
Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative
interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and
circumstances not entirely within the Company’s control. Although the Company
intends that its current organization and method of operation enables
it  to qualify as a REIT, it cannot assure you that it so qualifies or
that it will be able to remain so qualified in the future.  Future
legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions
(any of which could have retroactive effect) could adversely affect the
Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT or adversely affect our
stockholders.  If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any
taxable year, the Company would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including
any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate
rates, and the Company would not be allowed to deduct dividends paid to its
shareholders in computing its taxable income.  The Company may also be
disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the
year in which the Company failed to qualify.  The additional tax
liability would reduce its net earnings available for investment or distribution
to stockholders, and the Company would no longer be required to make
distributions to its stockholders.  Even if the Company continues to
qualify as a REIT, it will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and
local taxes on our income and property.
    
    The
Company has established several taxable REIT subsidiaries
(“TRSs”).  Despite its qualification as a REIT, the Company’s TRSs
must pay U.S. federal income tax on their taxable income.  While the
Company will attempt to ensure that its dealings with its TRSs do not adversely
affect its REIT qualification, it cannot provide assurance that it will
successfully achieve that result.  Furthermore, it may be subject to a
100% penalty tax, or its TRSs may be denied deductions, to the extent its
dealings with its TRSs are not deemed to be arm’s length in
nature.  No assurances can be given that the Company’s dealings with
its TRSs will be arm’s length in nature.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          14
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    From time
to time, the Company may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of its
Properties.  Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain resulting from
transfers of Properties that the Company holds as inventory or primarily for
sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income
from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax.  Since
the Company acquires properties for investment purposes, it does not believe
that its occasional transfers or disposals of property are prohibited
transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a
question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the
particular transaction.  The Internal Revenue Service may contend that
certain transfers or disposals of properties by the Company are prohibited
transactions.  If the Internal Revenue Service were to argue
successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited
transaction, then the Company would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any
gain allocable to it from the prohibited transaction and the Company’s ability
to retain future gains on real property sales may be
jeopardized.  Income from a prohibited transaction might adversely
affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT for
U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, no assurances can be given that we
will be able to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a
REIT.
    
    The U.S.
federal tax rate on certain corporate dividends paid to individuals and other
non-corporate taxpayers is at a reduced rate of 15% (until December 31,
2010).  It is uncertain whether this reduced rate will be continued
beyond the scheduled expiration date.  Dividends paid by REITs to
individuals and other non-corporate stockholders are not eligible for the
reduced 15% rate, however.  This may cause investors to view REIT
investments to be less attractive than investments in non-REIT corporations,
which in turn may adversely affect the value of stock in REITs, including our
stock.
    
    Item 1B