Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K; and elsewhere in this report and in other reports we file with the SEC. By their nature forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed or implied in this report or any of our prior communications. The forward-looking statements contained in this report reflect our expectations only as of the date of this report. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, as we do not undertake to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made, except as required by law.ITEM 1.BUSINESSOVERVIEWE*TRADE Financial Corporation is a financial services company that provides brokerage and related products and services primarily to individual retail investors under the brand "E*TRADE Financial." We also provide investor-focused banking products, primarily sweep deposits, to retail investors. Our competitive strategy is to attract and retain customers by emphasizing a hybrid model of digital and technology-intensive channels, backed by professional support and guidance.Our corporate offices are located at 1271 Avenue of the Americas, 14th Floor, New York, New York 10020. We were incorporated in California in 1982 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 1996. We had approximately 3,200 employees at December 31, 2014. We operate directly and through numerous subsidiaries, many of which are overseen by governmental and self-regulatory organizations. Our most significant subsidiaries are described below:•E*TRADE Securities LLC is a registered broker-dealer and is the primary provider of brokerage products and services to our customers;•E*TRADE Clearing LLC is the clearing firm for our brokerage subsidiaries and its main purpose is to clear and settle securities transactions for customers of E*TRADE Securities LLC;•E*TRADE Bank is a federally chartered savings bank utilized by E*TRADE's broker-dealers to maximize the value of customer deposits. It provides our customers with Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") insurance on a certain amount of customer deposits and provides other banking products to our customers; and•E*TRADE Financial Corporate Services is an operating subsidiary of the parent company and is the provider of software and services for managing equity compensation plans to our corporate customers. Our two primary U.S. broker-dealers, E*TRADE Clearing LLC and E*TRADE Securities LLC, became operating subsidiaries of E*TRADE Bank in 2007 and 2009, respectively. As a result, the vast majority of our revenue-generating operations resided within E*TRADE Bank and its subsidiaries, making capital distributions to our parent company reliant on approvals from our banking regulators. We recently received regulatory approval to move both E*TRADE Clearing LLC and E*TRADE Securities LLC out from under E*TRADE Bank. This revised organizational structure provides increased capital flexibility as it enables us to dividend excess regulatory capital at our broker-dealers to the parent company. E*TRADE Securities LLC was moved from under E*TRADE Bank in February 2015 and we plan to move E*TRADE Clearing LLC later in 2015.A complete list of our subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 can be found in Exhibit 21.1.We provide services to customers through our website www.etrade.com, our desktop software E*TRADE Pro, and our mobile applications. We also provide services through our network of customer service representatives and financial consultants, over the phone or in person through our 30 E*TRADE branches. Information on our website is not a part of this report.1Table of Contents    STRATEGYOur business strategy is centered on two core objectives: accelerating the growth of our core brokerage business to improve market share, and strengthening our overall financial and franchise position.Accelerate Growth of Core Brokerage Business•Capitalize on secular growth within the direct brokerage industry.The direct brokerage industry is growing at a faster rate than the traditional brokerage industry. We are focused on capitalizing on this growth by ensuring our customers' trading and investing needs are met through our direct relationships. •Enhance digital and offline customer experience.We are focused on maintaining our competitive position in trading, margin lending and cash management, while expanding our customer share of wallet in retirement, investing and savings. Through these offerings, we aim to continue acquiring new customers while deepening engagement with both new and existing ones. •Capitalize on value of corporate services business.This includes leveraging our industry-leading position to improve client acquisition, and bolstering awareness among plan participants of our full suite of offerings. This channel is a strategically important driver of brokerage account growth for us.•Maximize value of deposits through the Company's bank.Our brokerage business generates a significant amount of deposits, which we monetize through the bank by investing primarily in low-risk, agency mortgage-backed securities.Strengthen Overall Financial and Franchise Position•Manage down legacy investments and mitigate credit losses. We continue to manage down the size and risks associated with our legacy loan portfolio, while mitigating credit losses where possible. •Continue to execute on our capital plan.Our capital plan was laid out in 2012 with a key goal of distributing capital from E*TRADE Bank to the parent company. We are now focused on utilizing excess capital created through earnings and by achieving lower capital requirements at E*TRADE Bank, while continuing to enhance our enterprise risk management culture and capabilities.TECHNOLOGYOur success and ability to execute on our strategy is largely dependent upon the continued development of our technologies. We believe our focus on being a technological leader in the financial services industry enhances our competitive position. This focus allows us to deploy a secure, scalable, and reliable technology and back office platform that promotes innovative product development and delivery. We continued to invest in these critical platforms in 2014, leveraging the latest technologies to drive significant efficiencies as well as enhancing our service and operational support capabilities. Our sophisticated and proprietary technology platform also enabled us to deliver many upgrades to our retirement, investing and savings customer products and tools across all digital channels. Significant updates in 2014 include:•revamped site navigation;•new application for iOS 8, with first-to-market technologies such as finger print ID log in;•first-of-its-kind browser trading web application, allowing customers to research assets and place trades without leaving the page they are surfing;•enhanced fixed income solutions center;•enhanced online robo-advisor tool; and•updates to E*TRADE Pro, including log in process and technical indicators.PRODUCTS AND SERVICESWe assess the performance of our business based on our two core segments: trading and investing, including corporate services, and balance sheet management. With respect to trading and investing, the factors used to judge our performance include profitability, customer activity and financial metrics, along with the competitiveness of our overall value proposition to the customer and our customers' engagement with E*TRADE. We assess the performance of our balance sheet management 2Table of Contents    segment using metrics such as regulatory capital ratios, loan delinquencies, allowance for loan losses, enterprise net interest spread and average enterprise interest-earning assets. Costs associated with certain functions that are centrally-managed are separately reported in a corporate/other category.Trading and InvestingOur trading and investing segment offers a comprehensive suite of financial products and services to individual retail investors. The most significant of these products and services are described below:Trading Products and Services•our best-in-class customer website, www.etrade.com;•automated order placement and execution of U.S. equities, futures, options, exchange-traded funds, forex and bond orders;•E*TRADE Mobile, which allows customers to securely trade, monitor real-time investment, market and account information, access educational videos and other content, pay bills and transfer funds between accounts via iPhone®, iPad®, Android™ phones and tablets, Windows® Phone or Kindle Fire;•E*TRADE Pro, our desktop trading software for qualified active traders, which provides customers with customizable trading technology, continuous market visibility, news and information, plus live streaming news via CNBC TV;•margin accounts allowing customers to borrow against their securities, complete with margin analysis tools to help customers manage positions and risk;•access to 77 international markets with American depositary receipts ("ADRs"), exchange-traded funds ("ETFs"), and mutual funds, plus online equity trading in local currencies in Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan and the United Kingdom;•research and investing idea generation tools that assist customers with identifying investment opportunities including fundamental and technical research, consensus ratings, and market commentary from Morningstar, Dreyfus and BondDesk Group;•advice from our financial consultants at our 30 branches across the country and via phone and email;•no annual fee and no minimum individual retirement accounts, along with Rollover Specialists to guide customers through the rollover process;•retirement center which offers easy-to-use tools, calculators, education, retirement solutions, and access to Chartered Retirement Planning CounselorsSM who can provide customers with one-on-one portfolio evaluations and personalized plans;•OneStop Rollover – a simplified, online rollover program that enables investors to invest their 401(k) savings from a previous employer into a professionally-managed portfolio;•access to all ETFs sold, including over 100 commission-free ETFs from leading independent providers, and over 7,300 non-proprietary mutual funds;•Managed Investment Portfolio advisory services from an affiliated registered investment advisor, with an investment of $25,000 or more, which provides one-on-one professional portfolio management;•Unified Managed Account advisory services from an affiliated registered investment advisor, with an investment of $250,000 or more, which provides customers the opportunity to work with a dedicated investment professional to obtain a comprehensive, integrated approach to asset allocation, investments, portfolio rebalancing and tax management;•comprehensive Online Portfolio Advisor to help customers identify the right asset allocation and provide a range of solutions including a one-time investment portfolio or a managed investment account;•fixed income tools in our Fixed Income Solutions Center aimed at helping customers identify, evaluate and implement fixed income investment strategies;•access to our redesigned investor education center with over 450 individual educational articles and videos from over 20 independent sources and E*TRADE's financial experts, along with live events, webcasts, web seminars, tutorials, demos, and more than 50 courses; and3Table of Contents    •FDIC insured deposit accounts, including checking, savings and money market accounts, including those that transfer funds to and from customer brokerage accounts.Corporate ServicesWe offer software and services for managing equity compensation plans for corporate customers. Our Equity Edge Online™ platform facilitates the management of employee stock option plans, employee stock purchase plans and restricted stock plans, including necessary accounting and reporting functions. This product serves as an important introductory channel to E*TRADE for our corporate services account holders, with our goal being that these individuals will also use our brokerage products and services. Equity Edge Online™ recordkeeping and reporting was rated #1 in overall loyalty and satisfaction for the third year in a row by Group Five, an independent consulting and research firm, in its 2014 Stock Plan Administration Study Industry Report.Balance Sheet ManagementThe balance sheet management segment serves as a means to maximize the value of our customer deposits, focusing on asset allocation and managing credit, liquidity and interest rate risks. The balance sheet management segment manages our legacy loan portfolio which has been in runoff mode since 2008, as well as agency mortgage-backed securities, and other investments. Funding sources consist of customer payables and deposits which originate in the trading and investing segment, as well as wholesale funding, the majority of which are legacy obligations that are in run-off mode.For statistical information regarding products and services, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). Three years of segment financial performance and data can be found in the MD&A and in Note 22—Segment Information of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.SALES AND CUSTOMER SERVICEWe believe providing superior sales and customer service is fundamental to our business. We strive to maintain a high standard of customer service by staffing the customer support team with appropriately trained personnel who are equipped to handle customer inquiries in a prompt yet thorough manner. All customer-facing employees are Series 7 registered. Our customer service representatives utilize our proprietary web-based platform to provide customers with answers to their inquiries. We also have specialized customer service programs that are tailored to the needs of each customer group.We provide sales and customer support through the following channels of our registered broker-dealer and investment advisory subsidiaries:•Branches—we have 30 branches located across the U.S. where retail investors can get face-to-face support and guidance. Financial consultants are available on-site to help customers assess their current asset allocation and develop plans to help them achieve their investment goals. Customers can also contact our financial consultants via phone or e-mail if they cannot visit the branches.•Online—we have an Online Advisor tool available that provides asset allocation and a range of investment solutions that can be managed online or through a dedicated investment professional. We also have an Online Service Center where customers can request services on their accounts and obtain answers to frequently asked questions. The online service center also provides customers with the ability to send a secure message and/or engage in Live Chat with one of our customer service representatives. In addition, we offer our Investor Education Center, providing customers with access to a variety of live and on-demand courses.•Telephonic—we have a toll free number that connects customers to the appropriate department where a financial consultant or Series 7 licensed customer service representative can assist with their inquiry.COMPETITIONThe online financial services market continues to evolve and remains highly competitive. Our trading and investing segment competes with full commission brokerage firms, discount brokerage firms, online brokerage firms, personal finance start-ups, Internet banks and traditional "brick & mortar" retail banks and thrifts. Some of these competitors provide Internet trading and banking services, investment advisor services, touchtone telephone and voice response banking services, electronic bill payment services and a host of other financial products. Our balance sheet management segment competes with all users of market liquidity, including the types of competitors listed above, in order to obtain the least expensive source of funding.4Table of Contents    The financial services industry has become more concentrated as companies involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired, merged or have declared bankruptcy. We believe we can continue to attract and retain retail customers by providing them with easy-to-use and innovative financial products and services.We also face competition in attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our ability to compete effectively in financial services will depend upon our ability to attract new employees, and retain and motivate our existing employees while efficiently managing compensation-related costs.REGULATIONOur business is subject to regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and various non-U.S. governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including, for example, central banks and securities exchanges, each of which has been charged with the protection of the financial markets and the protection of the interests of those participating in those markets. We have been, along with other large financial institutions, subject to heightened expectations from our regulators with respect to compliance with laws and regulations, including our controls and business processes, which we expect will continue. We also anticipate that regulators will continue to intensify their supervision through the exam process and increase their enforcement of regulations across the industry. The regulators' heightened expectations and intense supervision have and will continue to increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.Our primary regulators in the U.S. include, among others, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), The NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ"), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC"), the National Futures Association ("NFA"), the FDIC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Federal Reserve"), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC") and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB").Both our brokerage and banking entities are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT ACT of 2001 ("BSA/USA PATRIOT Act"), which requires financial institutions to develop anti-money laundering ("AML") programs to assist in the prevention and detection of money laundering and combating terrorism. In order to comply with the BSA/USA PATRIOT Act, we have an AML department that is responsible for developing and implementing our enterprise-wide programs for compliance with the various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations. Our brokerage and banking entities are also subject to U.S. sanctions laws administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and we have policies and procedures in place to comply with these laws.For customer privacy and information security, under the rules of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, our brokerage and banking entities are required to disclose their privacy policies and practices related to sharing customer information with affiliates and non-affiliates. These rules also give customers the ability to "opt out" of having non-public information disclosed to third parties or receiving marketing solicitations from affiliates and non-affiliates based on non-public information received from our brokerage and banking entities.Brokerage RegulationOur broker-dealers are registered with the SEC and are subject to regulation by the SEC and by self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA and the securities exchanges of which each is a member, as well as various state regulators. In addition, E*TRADE Clearing LLC and E*TRADE Securities LLC are registered with the CFTC as a futures commission merchant and introducing broker, respectively, and are both members of the NFA. Such regulation covers various aspects of these businesses, including for example, client protection, net capital requirements, required books and records, safekeeping of funds and securities, trading, prohibited transactions, public offerings, margin lending, customer qualifications for margin and options transactions, registration of personnel and transactions with affiliates. Our international broker-dealers are regulated by their respective local regulators such as the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority and Hong Kong Securities & Futures Commission.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank Act") includes various provisions that affect the regulation of broker-dealers, futures commission merchants and introducing brokers. For example, the SEC is authorized to adopt a fiduciary duty standard applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers. To date, the SEC has not proposed any rulemaking under this authority. The U.S. Department of Labor is considering revisions to regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 that could subject broker-dealers to a fiduciary duty and prohibit specified transactions for a wider range of customer interactions. These developments may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential liabilities.5Table of Contents    Banking RegulationOur banking entities are subject to regulation, supervision and examination for safety and soundness by the Federal Reserve, OCC, FDIC and CFPB for compliance with federal consumer finance laws. Such regulation covers all aspects of the banking business, including lending practices, safeguarding deposits, customer privacy and information security, capital structure, transactions with affiliates and conduct and qualifications of personnel.Each of our banking entities has deposits insured by the FDIC and pays quarterly assessments to the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF"), maintained by the FDIC, to pay for this insurance coverage. The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. The assessment base for insured depository institutions is the average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. The FDIC's risk-based methodology for calculating the assessment rate for E*TRADE Bank and other large and highly complex depository institutions, finalized in 2011, utilizes a scorecard method based on a number of factors, including the institution’s regulatory ratings, asset quality and brokered deposits. In October 2012, the FDIC amended its 2011 rule to revise the definition of certain higher risk assets used to calculate the quarterly insurance assessment beginning on April 1, 2013. In November 2014, the FDIC further amended its assessment rule to reflect changes in the Basel III regulatory capital rules that began to be phased in as of January 1, 2015. The FDIC will continue to assess the changes to the assessment rates at least annually.Financial Regulatory Reform LegislationThe Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, includes comprehensive changes to the financial services industry. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act requires all companies, including savings and loan holding companies, that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution to serve as a source of strength for the institution.In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations. Although the majority of the required rules and regulations have now been finalized, there remain many still in proposed form or yet to be proposed, the substance and impact of which may not fully be known for months or years. The implementation of capital requirements applicable to the parent company will, however, impact us, as the parent company was not previously subject to regulatory capital requirements. These requirements became effective for us on January 1, 2015, as further explained below.Basel III FrameworkThe risk-based capital guidelines that applied to E*TRADE Bank as of December 31, 2014 were based upon the 1988 capital accords of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ("BCBS"), a committee of central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the U.S. Federal banking agencies, including the OCC, commonly known as Basel I. The Basel II framework was finalized by U.S. banking agencies in 2007; however, E*TRADE Bank did not meet the threshold requirements for Basel II and, therefore, has never been subject to the requirements of Basel II. In September 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the BCBS, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital and liquidity requirements, known as the Basel III framework. The final Basel III framework was released in December 2010, subject to individual adoption by the U.S. and other member nations.In July 2013, the U.S. Federal banking agencies finalized a rule to implement Basel III in the U.S., which provides the framework for the calculation of a banking organization’s regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets. The Basel III rule establishes Common Equity Tier 1 capital as a new tier of capital, raises the minimum thresholds for required capital, increases minimum required risk-based capital ratios, narrows the eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments, provides for new regulatory capital deductions and adjustments, and modifies methods for calculating risk-weighted assets (the denominator of risk-based capital ratios) by, among other things, strengthening counterparty credit risk capital requirements. The Basel III final rule also introduces a capital conservation buffer that limits a banking organization’s ability to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if a banking organization fails to maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of more than 2.5%, on a fully phased-in basis, of total risk-weighted assets above each of the following minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements: Common Equity Tier 1 (4.5%), Tier 1 (6.0%), and total risk-based capital (8.0%). This requirement will begin to take effect on January 1, 2016, and will be fully phased in by 2019.The rule became effective on January 1, 2014, for certain large banking organizations, and January 1, 2015, for most other U.S. banking organizations, including the Company and E*TRADE Bank. The fully phased-in Basel III capital standards will become effective January 1, 2019 for the Company and E*TRADE Bank. We expect to remain compliant with the Basel III framework as it is phased in.Several elements of the final rule are likely to have a meaningful impact to us. Margin receivables will qualify for 0% risk-weighting, and we believe that we will be able to include a larger portion of our deferred tax assets in regulatory capital, both having a favorable impact on our current capital ratios. A portion of this benefit will be offset as we phase out trust preferred securities from the parent company's capital. In addition, the final rule gives the option for a one-time permanent 6Table of Contents    election for the inclusion or exclusion in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1 capital of unrealized gains (losses) on all available-for-sale debt securities; we currently intend to elect to exclude unrealized gains (losses).On September 9, 2014, U.S. Federal banking agencies issued an inter-agency final rule that implements a quantitative liquidity coverage ratio ("LCR") that is generally consistent with, and in some respects stricter than, the international LCR standard established by the BCBS. The purpose of the LCR is to require certain financial institutions to hold minimum amounts of high-quality, liquid assets against its projected net cash outflows, over a 30-day period of stressed conditions. While the LCR does not apply to companies with less than $50 billion in assets, including the Company, we believe we would be compliant with the LCR standards set out in the final rule, as they apply to larger institutions.Prompt Corrective ActionThe Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. While these regulations apply only to banks, such as E*TRADE Bank, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against the parent bank holding company, such as E*TRADE Financial Corporation, based on the undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances, we would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan if our bank subsidiary were undercapitalized.DerivativesTitle VII of the Dodd-Frank Act subjects or potentially could subject derivatives that we enter into for hedging, risk management and other purposes to a comprehensive regulatory regime. This regime requires central clearing and execution on designated markets or execution facilities for certain standardized derivatives and imposes or will impose margin, documentation, trade reporting and other new requirements.  We are currently in compliance with these requirements as they apply to our activities, and they did not have a material impact on our operations.Volcker RuleOn December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve, OCC, FDIC, SEC and CFTC, issued final rules to implement section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (these rules collectively known as the "Volcker Rule"). The Volcker Rule imposes prohibitions and restrictions on the ability of banking entities and nonbank financial companies to engage in proprietary trading, and to have certain interests in, or relationships with, hedge funds or private equity funds ("Covered Funds"). Since the adoption of the Volcker Rule, there have been questions in the industry as to whether collateralized debt obligations backed by trust preferred securities ("TruPS CDOs") constituted Covered Funds under the Rule and on January 14, 2014, the agencies that adopted the Volcker Rule approved an interim final rule to permit banking entities to retain interests in TruPS CDOs that met certain conditions, including (i) that the TruPS CDO be established before May 19, 2010; (ii) that the banking entity’s interest in the TruPS CDO be acquired on or before December 10, 2013; and (iii) that the TruPS CDO be invested in "qualifying" collateral. We have assessed the impact of the Volcker Rule as it relates to the trust preferred securities that were issued by ETB Holdings, Inc. and have determined that the trust preferred securities are exempt under the provisions of the interim final rule. On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve issued an order extending the Volcker Rule’s conformance period until July 21, 2016, for investments in and relationships with Covered Funds and certain foreign funds that were in place on or prior to December 31, 2013.  Subject to these extensions, we have until July 2015 to comply with other provisions of the Volcker Rule. We have assessed the impact of full implementation of the Volcker Rule and expect to be in full compliance by July 2015, with minimal impact on our operations.Stress TestingOn October 9, 2012, federal banking regulators issued final rules implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that require banking organizations with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion but less than $50 billion to conduct annual company-run stress tests, report the results to their primary federal regulator and the Federal Reserve and publish a summary of the results. Under the rules, stress tests must be conducted using certain scenarios (baseline, adverse and severely adverse), which the Federal Reserve will publish by November 15 of each year. Under the OCC stress test regulations, E*TRADE Bank is required to conduct stress-testing using the prescribed stress-testing methodologies. The final OCC regulations required E*TRADE Bank to conduct its first stress test using financial statement data as of September 30, 2013, and to submit the results prior to March 31, 2014. E*TRADE Bank submitted the results of its first stress test prior to March 31, 2014, as required. For banking organizations with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion but less than $50 billion, including E*TRADE Bank, the results of the first official test will not be public information. E*TRADE Bank will be required to publish summary results of its annual stress test between June 15 and June 30 each year, beginning with its second annual stress test in 2015.7Table of Contents    The OCC analyzes and provides feedback on the quality of E*TRADE Bank's stress test process and results. In the second quarter of 2014 we received feedback from the OCC on our first official stress test submission that we remained well above the regulatory well-capitalized levels for all scenarios. We were satisfied with the feedback around our stress testing process, approach and methodologies.Under the final Federal Reserve regulations, the parent company will be required to conduct its first stress test using financial statement data as of September 30, 2016, and it will be required to report the results of its first stress test to the Federal Reserve on or before March 31, 2017, and to disclose a summary of its stress test results between June 15 and June 30, 2017.For additional regulatory information on our brokerage and banking regulations, see Note 19—Regulatory Requirements of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.AVAILABLE INFORMATIONWe make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, available free of charge at our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with the SEC. Our website address is www.etrade.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains the materials we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov.ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth the risk factors which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and should be carefully considered in addition to the other information set forth in this report. These are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not deem to be material may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Relating to the Nature and Operation of Our BusinessTurmoil in the global financial markets could reduce trade volumes and margin lending and increase our dependence on our more active customers who receive lower pricing, resulting in lower revenues.Digital investing services to the retail customer, including trading, margin lending and sweep deposits, account for a significant portion of our revenues. Turmoil in the global financial markets could lead to changes in volume and price levels of securities and futures transactions which may, in turn, result in lower trading volumes and margin lending. In particular, a decrease in trading activity within our lower activity accounts could impact revenues and increase dependence on more active trading customers who receive more favorable pricing based on their trade volume. A decrease in trading activity or securities prices would also typically be expected to result in a decrease in margin lending, which would reduce the revenue that we generate from interest charged on margin lending and increase our credit risk because the value of the collateral could fall below the amount of indebtedness it secures.We may be unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates and the enterprise interest-earning assets in our portfolio.Net operating interest income is an important source of our revenue. Our results of operations depend, in part, on our level of net operating interest income and our effective management of the impact of changing interest rates and varying asset and liability maturities. Our ability to manage interest rate risk could impact our financial condition. We use derivatives as hedging instruments to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations. However, the derivatives we utilize may not be completely effective at managing this risk and changes in market interest rates and the yield curve could reduce the value of our financial assets and reduce our net operating interest income.Enterprise net interest spread may fluctuate based on the size and mix of the balance sheet, as well as the impact from changes in market interest rates. Among other items, we periodically enter into repurchase agreements to support the funding and liquidity requirements of E*TRADE Bank. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationships with these counterparties, we could recognize substantial losses on the derivatives we utilized to hedge repurchase agreements.8Table of Contents    We will continue to experience losses in our mortgage loan portfolio.At December 31, 2014, the principal balance of our one- to four-family loan portfolio was $3.1 billion and the allowance for loan losses for this portfolio was $27 million. At December 31, 2014, the principal balance of our home equity loan portfolio was $2.8 billion and the allowance for loan losses for this portfolio was $367 million. Although the provision for loan losses has declined in recent periods, performance is subject to variability in any given quarter and we cannot state with certainty that the declining loan loss trend will continue. Due to the complexity and judgment required by management about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain, there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate. In the normal course of conducting examinations, our banking regulators, the OCC and Federal Reserve, continue to review our policies and procedures. This process is dynamic and ongoing and we cannot be certain that additional changes or actions to our policies and procedures will not result from their continuing review. We may be required under such circumstances to further increase the allowance for loan losses, which could have an adverse effect on our regulatory capital position and our results of operations in future periods.Certain characteristics of our mortgage loan portfolio indicate an increased risk of loss. For example, at December 31, 2014:•approximately 16% and 35% of the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios, respectively, had a current loan-to-value ("LTV")/combined loan-to-value ("CLTV") of greater than 100%;•approximately 56% and 49% of the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios, respectively, were originated with low or no documentation; and•borrowers with current Fair Isaac Credit Organization ("FICO") scores less than 700 consisted of approximately 34% and 37% of the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios, respectively.The foregoing factors are among the key items we track to predict and monitor credit risk in our mortgage portfolio, together with loan type, housing prices, loan vintage and geographic location of the underlying property. We believe the relative importance of these factors varies, depending upon economic conditions.Home equity loans have certain characteristics that result in higher risk than first lien, amortizing one- to four-family loans.Approximately 85% of the home equity loan portfolio consists of second lien loans on residential real estate properties. Second lien loans carry higher credit risk because the holder of the first lien mortgage has priority in right of payment. Therefore, downturns in real estate markets may result in the value of the collateral being insufficient to cover the second lien positions. The average estimated current CLTV on our home equity loan portfolio was 92% as of December 31, 2014. We hold both the first and second lien positions in less than 1% of the home equity loan portfolio, and in loans for which we do not hold the first lien positions we are exposed to risk associated with the actions and inactions of the first lien lender.We monitor our borrowers by refreshing FICO scores and CLTV information on a quarterly basis. We do not have access to complete data on the first lien positions of second lien home equity loans. The majority of home equity lines of credit convert to amortizing loans at the end of the draw period, which typically ranges from five to ten years. Approximately 7% of this portfolio will require the borrowers to repay the loan in full at the end of the draw period, commonly referred to as "balloon loans." At December 31, 2014, 85% of the home equity line of credit portfolio had not converted from the interest-only draw period and had not begun amortizing. As a result, we do not yet have sufficient data relating to loan default and delinquency of amortizing home equity lines of credit to determine if the performance is different than the trends observed for home equity lines of credit in an interest-only draw period. Actual loan defaults and delinquencies of amortizing home equity lines of credit that exceed our current expectations could negatively impact our financial performance.We rely on third party service providers to perform certain key functions.We rely on third party service providers for certain technology, processing, servicing and support functions. These third party service providers are also subject to operational and technology vulnerabilities, which may impact our business. For example, external content providers provide us with financial information, market news, quotes, research reports and other fundamental data that we offer to clients. Any significant failures or breaches by our service providers could interrupt our business, cause us to incur losses, subject us to fines or litigation and harm our reputation. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any third party service provider and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner could have a material impact on our ability to offer certain products and services and result in loss to the Company. We cannot assure that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide the products and services in an efficient, cost effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs and those of our customers.We do not directly service any of our loans and as a result, we rely on third party vendors and servicers to provide information on our loan portfolio. For example, we rely on third party servicers to provide payment information on home equity loans, including which borrowers are paying only the minimum amount due. From time to time we have discovered that 9Table of Contents    these vendors and servicers have provided incomplete or untimely information to us about our loan portfolio. For example, provision for loan losses increased in the third quarter of 2012 in connection with our discovery that one of our third party loan servicers had not been reporting historical bankruptcy data to us on a timely basis and, as a result, we recorded additional charge-offs in the third quarter of 2012. In connection with this discovery, we implemented an enhanced procedure around all servicer reporting to corroborate bankruptcy reporting with independent third party data.We expect that our regulators will hold us responsible for any deficiencies in our oversight and control of our third party relationships and in the performance of those parties with which we have those relationships.  If there were deficiencies in the oversight and control of our third party relationships, and if the regulators held us responsible for those deficiencies, it could have a negative effect on our business operations, reputation, and possibly profitability.We have a large amount of corporate debt which limits how we conduct our business.We have issued a substantial amount of corporate debt and have the capacity to incur substantial additional indebtedness under our senior secured revolving credit facility, subject to certain restrictive financial and other covenants. Our expected annual debt service interest payment is approximately $80 million. Our ratio of corporate debt to equity (expressed as a percentage) was 25% at December 31, 2014. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including:•a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;•our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate needs is significantly limited; and•our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage, hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in general economic conditions or our business. In addition, a significant reduction in revenues could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition, operating performance and our ability to receive dividend payments from our subsidiaries, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions, regulatory approval and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives.Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness.We conduct all of our operations through subsidiaries and rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for all of our revenues.We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments on our obligations, including our debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions limit our ability to transfer funds to or from certain subsidiaries. In addition, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to us, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations, including our debt obligations, and otherwise conduct our business. As of December 31, 2014, the majority of our capital was invested in our banking subsidiary E*TRADE Bank, which may not pay dividends to us without approval from the OCC and the Federal Reserve. These agencies may object to a proposed capital distribution if, among other things,  E*TRADE Bank is, or as a result of such dividend or distribution would be, undercapitalized or the Federal Reserve has safety and soundness concerns. Our primary brokerage subsidiaries, E*TRADE Securities LLC and E*TRADE Clearing LLC, were both subsidiaries of E*TRADE Bank; therefore, the OCC, together with the Federal Reserve, controlled our ability to receive dividend payments from our brokerage business as well. We recently received regulatory approval to move our broker-dealers, E*TRADE Securities LLC and E*TRADE Clearing LLC, out from 10Table of Contents    under E*TRADE Bank. E*TRADE Securities LLC was moved from under E*TRADE Bank in February 2015 and subsequently paid a dividend of $434 million to the parent company. We plan to move E*TRADE Clearing LLC later in 2015. The revised organizational structure provides increased capital flexibility as it enables us to dividend excess regulatory capital at our broker-dealers to the parent company, without requiring approval from the OCC and the Federal Reserve. In addition, in each quarter starting in the second quarter of 2015, we plan to request approvals from the OCC and the Federal Reserve for dividends in the amount of E*TRADE Bank's net income from the previous quarter. We cannot be certain, however, that we will receive regulatory approval for such contemplated dividends at the requested levels or at all.Under the OCC stress test regulations, E*TRADE Bank is required to conduct stress-testing using the prescribed stress-testing methodologies. The final OCC regulations required E*TRADE Bank to conduct its first stress test using financial statement data as of September 30, 2013, and to submit the results prior to March 31, 2014. E*TRADE Bank submitted the results of its first stress test prior to March 31, 2014, as required. For banking organizations with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion but less than $50 billion, including E*TRADE Bank, the results of the first official test will not be public information. E*TRADE Bank will be required to publish summary results of its annual stress test between June 15 and June 30 each year, beginning with its second annual stress test in 2015.The OCC analyzes and provides feedback on the quality of E*TRADE Bank's stress test process and results. In the second quarter of 2014 we received feedback from the OCC on our first official stress test submission that we remained well above the regulatory well-capitalized levels for all scenarios. We were satisfied with the feedback around our stress testing process, approach and methodologies. While there is no formal mechanism for the OCC to "pass" or "fail" E*TRADE Bank's stress test processes and results, it will likely consider these processes and results in evaluating proposed actions that may affect our bank's capital, including but not limited to dividend payments, redemption or repurchase of regulatory capital instruments and mergers and acquisitions. If the OCC were to object to any such proposed action, our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.We operate in a highly competitive industry where many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources.The financial services industry is highly competitive, with multiple industry participants competing for the same customers. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than we have and offer a wider range of financial products and services. Other of our competitors offer a more narrow range of financial products and services and have not been as susceptible to the disruptions in the credit markets that have impacted our Company, and therefore have not suffered the losses we have. The impact of competitors with superior name recognition, greater market acceptance, larger customer bases or stronger capital positions could adversely affect our revenue growth and customer retention. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and demands and withstand changing market conditions better than we can. Competitors may conduct extensive promotional activities, offering better terms, lower prices and/or different products and services or combinations of products and services that could attract current E*TRADE customers and potentially result in price wars within the industry. We may not be able to match the marketing efforts or prices of our competitors due to our financial position and cost structure. Some of our competitors may also benefit from established relationships among themselves or with third parties enhancing their products and services.In addition, we compete in a technology-intensive industry characterized by rapid innovation. We may be unable to effectively use new technologies, adopt our services to emerging industry standards or develop, introduce and market enhanced or new products and services. If we are not able to update or adapt our products and services to take advantage of the latest technologies and standards, or are otherwise unable to tailor the delivery of our services to the latest personal and mobile computing devices preferred by our retail customers, our business and financial performance could suffer.Our ability to compete successfully in the financial services industry depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:•maintaining and expanding our market position;•attracting and retaining customers;•providing easy to use and innovative financial products and services;•our reputation and the market perception of our brand and overall value;•maintaining competitive pricing;•competing in a concentrated competitive landscape;•the quality of our technology, products and services;•deploying a secure and scalable technology and back office platform;•innovating effectively in launching new or enhanced products;11Table of Contents    •the differences in regulatory oversight regimes to which we and our competitors are subject;•attracting new employees and retaining our existing employees; and•general economic and industry trends.Our competitive position within the industry could be adversely affected if we are unable to adequately address these factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.If we do not successfully participate in consolidation opportunities, we could be at a competitive disadvantage.There has been significant consolidation in the financial services industry and this consolidation may continue in the future. Should we be excluded from or fail to take advantage of viable consolidation opportunities, our competitors may be able to capitalize on those opportunities and take advantage of greater scale and cost efficiencies to our detriment.Although we are currently constrained by the terms of our corporate debt, senior secured revolving credit facility and the memoranda of understanding we and E*TRADE Bank entered into with our primary banking regulators, we may seek to acquire businesses in the future. The assets of businesses we have acquired in the past were primarily customer accounts. In future acquisitions, our retention of customers’ assets may be impacted by our ability to successfully integrate the acquired operations, products (including pricing) and personnel. Diversion of management attention from other business concerns could have a negative impact. If we are not successful in our integration efforts, we may experience significant attrition in the acquired accounts or experience other issues that would prevent us from achieving the level of revenue enhancements and cost savings that we expect with respect to an acquisition.We rely heavily on technology, which can be subject to interruption and instability due to operational and technological failures.We rely on technology, particularly the Internet and mobile services, to conduct much of our business activity. Our systems and operations, including our primary and disaster recovery data center operations, are vulnerable to disruptions from human error, natural disasters, power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, software bugs, computer viruses or other malicious software, distributed denial of service attacks, spam attacks, security breaches and other similar events. Extraordinary trading volumes or site usage could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Disruptions to or instability of our technology or external technology that allows our customers to use our products and services could harm our business and our reputation. Should our technology operations be disrupted, we may have to make significant investments to upgrade, repair or replace our technology infrastructure and may not be able to make such investments on a timely basis. While we have made significant investments to ensure the reliability and scalability of our operations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain, expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to meet future requirements and mitigate future risks on a timely basis or that we will be able to retain skilled information technology employees. Disruptions in service and slower system response times could result in substantial losses, decreased client service, satisfaction and harm to our reputation. In addition, technology systems, including our own proprietary systems and the systems of third parties on whom we rely to conduct portions of our operations, are potentially vulnerable to security breaches and unauthorized usage. An actual or perceived breach of the security of our technology could harm our business and our reputation. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.Unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or those of our customers or third parties, may subject us to significant liability and reputational harm.As part of our business, we are required to collect, use and store customer, employee and third party personally identifiable information ("PII"). This may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and account information. We maintain systems including cybersecurity procedures designed to securely process, transmit and store confidential information (including PII) and protect against unauthorized access to such information. We also require our third party vendors to have adequate security if they have access to PII. However, these risks have grown in recent years due to increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Despite these security measures, our systems, and those of our customers and third party vendors, may be vulnerable to security breaches, phishing attacks, cyber-attacks, acts of vandalism, information security breaches and computer viruses which could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data, an interruption in service or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of PII, whether by us or by our customers or third party vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a materially adverse effect on our business. Future legislation and regulatory action regarding cybersecurity or PII could result in increased costs and compliance efforts.Because our business model relies heavily on our customers’ use of their own personal computers, mobile devices and the Internet, our business and reputation could be harmed by security breaches of our customers and third parties. Computer viruses and other attacks on our customers’ personal computer systems, home networks and mobile devices or against the third-12Table of Contents    party networks and systems of internet and mobile service providers could create losses for our customers even without any breach in the security of our systems, and could thereby harm our business and our reputation. As part of our E*TRADE Complete Protection Guarantee, we reimburse our customers for losses caused by a breach of security of our customers’ own personal systems. Such reimbursements could have a material impact on our financial performance.We may suffer losses due to credit risk associated with margin lending, securities loaned transactions or financial transactions with counterparties.We permit certain customers to purchase securities on margin. A downturn in securities markets may impact the value of collateral held in connection with margin receivables and may reduce its value below the amount borrowed, potentially creating collections issues with our margin receivables. In addition, we frequently borrow securities from and lend securities to other broker-dealers. Under regulatory guidelines, when we borrow or lend securities, we must simultaneously disburse or receive cash deposits. A sharp change in security market values may result in losses if counterparties to the borrowing and lending transactions fail to honor their commitments. We also engage in financial transactions with counterparties, including repurchase agreements, that expose us to credit losses in the event counterparties cannot meet their obligations. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risk Management for additional information.Advisory services subject us to additional risks.We provide advisory services to investors to aid them in their decision making. Investment recommendations and suggestions are based on publicly available documents and communications with investors regarding investment preferences and risk tolerances. Publicly available documents may be inaccurate and misleading, resulting in recommendations or transactions that are inconsistent with investors’ intended results. In addition, advisors may not understand investor needs or risk tolerances, which may result in the recommendation or purchase of a portfolio of assets that may not be suitable for the investor. Risks associated with advisory services also include those arising from possible conflicts of interest, inadequate due diligence, inadequate disclosure, human error and fraud. To the extent that we fail to know our customers or improperly advise them, we could be found liable for losses suffered by such customers, which could harm our reputation and business.We have a significant deferred tax asset and cannot assure it will be fully realized.We had net deferred tax assets of $951 million at December 31, 2014. We did not establish a valuation allowance against our federal net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2014 as we believe that it is more likely than not that all of these assets will be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimated future taxable income based on management approved forecasts. This process required significant judgment by management about matters that are by nature uncertain. If future events differ significantly from our current forecasts, a valuation allowance may need to be established, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Summary of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for additional information.As a result of a registered offering of the Company's common stock, an exchange of certain of the Company's debt securities and related transactions in 2009, we believe that we experienced an "ownership change" for tax purposes that could cause us to permanently lose a significant portion of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets.As a result of a registered offering of the Company's common stock, an exchange of certain of the Company's debt securities and related transactions in 2009, we believe that we experienced an "ownership change" as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 382") (which is generally a greater than 50 percentage point increase by certain "5% shareholders" over a rolling three year period). Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the utilization of deferred tax assets, such as net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes, once an ownership change has occurred. Depending on the size of the annual limitation (which is in part a function of our market capitalization at the time of the ownership change) and the remaining carryforward period of the tax assets (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a period of 20 years), we could realize a permanent loss of a portion of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes. We believe the tax ownership change will extend the period of time it will take to fully utilize our pre-ownership change net operating losses ("NOLs"), but will not limit the total amount of pre-ownership change federal NOLs we can utilize. This is a complex analysis and requires the Company to make certain judgments in determining the annual limitation. As a result, it is possible that we could ultimately lose a significant portion of deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.13Table of Contents    Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our BusinessWe are subject to extensive government regulation, including banking and securities rules and regulations, which could restrict our business practices.The securities and banking industries are subject to extensive regulation. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries must comply with many laws and rules, including rules relating to sales practices and the suitability of recommendations to customers, possession and control of customer funds and securities, margin lending, execution and settlement of transactions and anti-money laundering.Similarly, E*TRADE Financial Corporation and ETB Holdings, Inc., as savings and loan holding companies, and E*TRADE Bank and E*TRADE Savings Bank, as federally chartered savings banks, are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the Federal Reserve (including pursuant to the terms of the memoranda of understanding that E*TRADE Financial Corporation entered into with the Federal Reserve and that E*TRADE Bank entered into with the OCC) and, in the case of the savings banks, also the FDIC. Such regulation covers all banking business, including lending practices, safeguarding deposits, capital structure, recordkeeping, transactions with affiliates and conduct and qualifications of personnel.In providing services to clients, we manage, use and store sensitive customer data including PII.  As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as U.S. federal and state laws and foreign regulations governing the protection of PII. These laws have increased in complexity, change frequently and can conflict with one another.While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, our regulators have broad discretion with respect to the enforcement of applicable laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that violations will not occur. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations and our policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, litigation, civil penalties and harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, to the extent we undertake actions requiring regulatory approval or non-objection, our regulators may make their approval or non-objection subject to conditions or restrictions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.In addition, the profitability of the Company could also be affected by regulations which impact the business and financial communities generally, including changes to the laws governing taxation, electronic commerce, customer privacy and security of customer data.Ongoing regulatory reform efforts may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, if we are unable to meet any new or ongoing requirements, we could face negative regulatory consequences, which would have a material negative effect on our business.On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This law contains various provisions designed to enhance financial stability and to reduce the likelihood of another financial crisis and significantly changed the bank regulatory structure for our Company and its thrift subsidiaries. Portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, but other portions will be effective following extended transition periods or through numerous rulemakings by multiple government agencies, some of which have not yet been completed. While there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of those changes, we do know that we are subject to a more complex regulatory framework and we will continue to incur costs to implement the new requirements as well as monitor for continued compliance. The Federal Reserve has primary jurisdiction for the supervision and regulation of savings and loan holding companies, including the Company; and the OCC has primary supervision and regulation of federal savings associations, such as the Company’s two thrift subsidiaries. Although the Dodd-Frank Act maintains the federal thrift charter, it eliminates certain preemption, branching and other benefits of the charter and imposes new penalties for failure to comply with the qualified thrift lender test. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires all companies, including savings and loan holding companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution, to serve as a source of strength for the institution, including committing necessary capital and liquidity support.We are required to file periodic reports with the Federal Reserve and are subject to examination and supervision by it. The Federal Reserve also has certain types of enforcement powers over us, ETB Holdings, Inc., and our non-depository institution subsidiaries, including the ability to issue cease-and-desist orders, force divestiture of our thrift subsidiaries and impose civil and monetary penalties for violations of federal banking laws and regulations or for unsafe or unsound banking practices. Our thrift subsidiaries are subject to similar reporting, examination, supervision and enforcement oversight by the OCC. The Federal Reserve has issued guidance aligning the supervisory and regulatory standards of savings and loan holding companies more closely with the standards applicable to bank holding companies. For all banks and thrifts with total consolidated assets over $10 billion, including E*TRADE Bank, the CFPB has exclusive rulemaking and examination, and 14Table of Contents    primary enforcement authority, under federal consumer financial laws and regulations. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB.For us, one of the most significant changes since the passage of Dodd-Frank has been that savings and loan holding companies such as our Company are now subject to the same capital and activity requirements as those applicable to bank holding companies. The phase-in of these capital requirements began January 1, 2015 and we will be required to comply with the fully phased-in capital standards beginning in 2019. We expect to meet the capital requirements applicable to thrift holding companies as they are phased in. However, it is possible that our regulators may impose additional, more stringent capital and other prudential standards, which could be applicable to us, prior to the end of the five year phase-in period. For example, both the OCC and the Federal Reserve have issued generally applicable final regulations that required E*TRADE Bank and will ultimately also require the parent company to conduct capital adequacy tests on their operations. Pursuant to those regulations, E*TRADE Bank disclosed a summary of these stress test results to the OCC on or before March 31, 2014 and the Company will ultimately also be required to disclose a summary of its stress test results to the Federal Reserve on or before March 31, 2017.If we fail to comply with applicable securities and banking laws, rules and regulations, either domestically or internationally, we could be subject to disciplinary actions, damages, penalties or restrictions that could significantly harm our business.The SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions, among other things, can censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or suspend or expel a broker-dealer or any of its officers or employees. The OCC and Federal Reserve may take similar action with respect to our banking and other financial activities, respectively. Similarly, the attorneys general of each state could bring legal action on behalf of the citizens of the various states to ensure compliance with local laws. Regulatory agencies in countries outside of the U.S. have similar authority. The ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is dependent in part on the establishment and maintenance of a reasonable compliance function. The failure to establish and enforce reasonable compliance procedures, even if unintentional, could subject us to significant losses or disciplinary or other actions.During 2012, the Company completed a review of order handling practices and pricing for order flow between E*TRADE Securities LLC and G1 Execution Services, LLC. The Company has implemented the changes to its practices and procedures that were recommended during the review. Banking regulators and federal securities regulators were regularly updated during the course of the review and may initiate investigations into the Company’s historical practices which could subject it to monetary penalties and cease-and-desist orders, which could also prompt claims by customers of E*TRADE Securities LLC. Any of these actions could materially and adversely affect the Company. On July 11, 2013, FINRA notified E*TRADE Securities LLC and G1 Execution Services, LLC that it is conducting an examination of both firms’ routing practices. The Company is cooperating fully with FINRA in this examination. Under the agreement governing the sale of G1 Execution Services, LLC to Susquehanna International Group, LLP ("Susquehanna"), the Company remains responsible for any resulting actions taken against G1 Execution Services, LLC as a result of such investigation.If we do not maintain the capital levels required by regulators, we may be fined or subject to other disciplinary or corrective actions.The SEC, FINRA, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of regulatory capital by banks and net capital by securities broker-dealers. E*TRADE Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the OCC, and E*TRADE Financial Corporation became subject to specific capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve on January 1, 2015. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm E*TRADE Bank’s and E*TRADE Financial Corporation’s operations and financial statements.E*TRADE Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of E*TRADE Bank’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. In July 2013, the U.S. Federal banking agencies finalized a rule to implement Basel III in the U.S., which provides the framework for the calculation of a banking organization’s regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets. The Basel III rule establishes Common Equity Tier 1 capital as a new tier of capital, raises the minimum thresholds for required capital, increases minimum required risk-based capital ratios, narrows the eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments, provides for new regulatory capital deductions and adjustments, and modifies methods for calculating risk-weighted assets (the denominator of risk-based capital ratios) by, among other things, strengthening counterparty credit risk capital requirements. The Basel III final rule also introduces a capital conservation buffer that limits a banking organization’s ability to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if a banking organization fails to maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of more than 2.5%, on a fully phased-in basis, of total risk-weighted assets above each of the following minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements: Common Equity Tier 1 (4.5%), Tier 1 (6.0%), and total risk-based capital (8.0%). This requirement will begin to take effect on January 1, 2016, and will be fully phased in by 2019.  15Table of Contents    The rule became effective on January 1, 2014, for certain large banking organizations, and January 1, 2015, for most other U.S. banking organizations, including the Company and E*TRADE Bank. The fully phased-in Basel III capital standards will become effective January 1, 2019 for the Company and E*TRADE Bank. We expect to remain compliant with the Basel III framework as it is phased in.Several elements of the final rule are likely to have a meaningful impact on us. Margin receivables will qualify for 0% risk-weighting, and we believe that we will be able to include a larger portion of our deferred tax assets in regulatory capital, both having a favorable impact on our current capital ratios. A portion of this benefit will be offset as we phase out trust preferred securities from the parent company's regulatory capital. In addition, the final rule gives the option for a one-time permanent election for the inclusion or exclusion in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1 capital of unrealized gains (losses) on all available-for-sale debt securities; we currently intend to elect to exclude unrealized gains (losses).The Company’s and E*TRADE Bank’s capital amounts and classification are subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about the strength of components of its capital, risk weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions and other factors. Any significant reduction in the Company’s or E*TRADE Bank’s regulatory capital could result in E*TRADE Bank being less than "well capitalized" or "adequately capitalized" under applicable capital rules. A failure of the Company or E*TRADE Bank to be "adequately capitalized" which is not cured within time periods specified in the indentures governing our debt securities or senior secured revolving credit facility would constitute a default under our debt securities and senior secured revolving credit facility and likely result in the debt securities and senior secured revolving credit facility becoming immediately due and payable at their full face value.The OCC and the Federal Reserve may request we raise equity to increase the regulatory capital of the Company or E*TRADE Bank or to further reduce debt. If we were unable to raise equity, we could face negative regulatory consequences, such as restrictions on our activities, requirements that we divest ourselves of certain businesses and requirements that we dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period. Any such actions could have a material negative effect on our business.Similarly, failure to maintain the required net capital by our securities broker-dealers could result in suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA, and could ultimately lead to the firm’s liquidation. If such net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, operations that require an intensive use of capital could be limited. Such operations may include investing activities, marketing and the financing of customer account balances. Also, our ability to withdraw capital from brokerage subsidiaries could be restricted.As a non-grandfathered savings and loan holding company, we are subject to activity limitations and requirements that could restrict our ability to engage in certain activities and take advantage of certain business opportunities.Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, our activities are restricted to those that are financial in nature and certain real estate-related activities. We believe all of our existing activities and investments are permissible under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. At the same time, we are unable to pursue future activities that are not financial in nature or otherwise real-estate related. We are also limited in our ability to invest in other savings and loan holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires savings and loan holding companies like ours, as well as all of our thrift subsidiaries, to be both "well capitalized" and "well managed" in order for us to conduct certain financial activities, such as securities underwriting. We believe that we will be able to continue to engage in all of our current financial activities. However, if we and our thrift subsidiaries are unable to satisfy the "well capitalized" and "well managed" requirements, we could be subject to activity restrictions that could prevent us from engaging in securities underwriting as well as other negative regulatory actions.In addition, E*TRADE Bank is currently subject to extensive regulation of its activities and investments, capitalization, community reinvestment, risk management policies and procedures and relationships with affiliated companies. Acquisitions of and mergers with other financial institutions, purchases of deposits and loan portfolios, the establishment of new depository institution subsidiaries and the commencement of new activities by bank subsidiaries require the prior approval of the OCC and the Federal Reserve, and in some cases the FDIC, which may deny approval or condition their approval on the imposition of limitations on the scope of our planned activity. Also, these regulations and conditions could affect our ability to realize synergies from future acquisitions, negatively affect us following an acquisition and also delay or prevent the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services. In addition, E*TRADE Clearing LLC, so long as it is an operating subsidiary of E*TRADE Bank, is subject to increased regulatory oversight and the same activity restrictions that are applicable to E*TRADE Bank. We recently received regulatory approval to move our broker-dealers, E*TRADE Securities LLC and E*TRADE Clearing LLC, out from under E*TRADE Bank.  E*TRADE Securities LLC was moved from under E*TRADE Bank in February 2015 and we plan to move E*TRADE Clearing LLC later in 2015, at which point these restrictions will be no longer applicable.Risks Relating to Owning Our Stock16Table of Contents    Our business operations are substantially restricted by the terms of our corporate debt.Our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our corporate debt contain various covenants and restrictions that place limitations on our ability and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness;•create liens;•pay dividends, make distributions or other payments;•repurchase or redeem capital stock;•make investments or other restricted payments;•enter into transactions with our shareholders or affiliates;•sell assets or shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries; and•merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets.As a result of the covenants and restrictions contained in the indentures and senior secured revolving credit facility, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing at all or on terms sufficient to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. Each series of our corporate debt contains a limitation, subject to important exceptions, on our ability to incur additional debt if our Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as defined in the relevant indentures) is less than or equal to 2.5 to 1.0 under the terms of our outstanding convertible notes and 2.0 to 1.0 under the terms of our other outstanding series of notes. As of December 31, 2014, our Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio was 5.7 to 1.0.The senior secured revolving credit facility also contains certain covenants including that we maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the senior secured revolving credit facility) of 1.5 to 1.0, a maximum total leverage ratio, a maximum asset quality ratio, certain capitalization requirements for the parent company and certain of its subsidiaries and at least $100 million in unrestricted cash at the parent company. The covenants, among other things, generally limit our ability to incur additional debt even if we were to substantially reduce our existing debt through debt exchange transactions. We could be forced to repay immediately all our outstanding borrowings under the senior secured revolving credit facility and outstanding debt securities at their full principal amount if we were to breach these covenants and did not cure such breach within the cure periods (if any) specified in the respective indentures and senior secured revolving credit facility. Further, if we experience a change of control, as defined in the indentures, we could be required to offer to purchase our debt securities at 101% of their principal amount. Under certain of our debt securities a "change of control" would occur if, among other things, a person became the beneficial owner of more than 50% of the total voting power of our voting stock which, with respect to the 6 3/8% senior notes due November 2019 ("6 3/8% Notes") and 5 3/8% senior notes due November 2022, would need to be coupled with a ratings downgrade before we would be required to offer to purchase those securities. A “change in control” (as defined in the senior secured revolving credit facility) would occur if a person became the beneficial owner of more than 35% of the total voting power of our voting stock or if a change of control were deemed to occur pursuant to the terms of certain of our debt securities. In such event, we could be required to repay all loans outstanding under the credit facility at their full principal amount plus any accrued interest or fees.We cannot assure that we will be able to remain in compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to comply, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain waivers from the appropriate parties and/or amend the covenants. In addition, the terms of any future indebtedness could include more restrictive covenants.The value of our common stock may be diluted if we need additional funds in the future.In the future, we may need to raise additional funds via the issuance and sale of our debt and/or equity instruments, which we may not be able to conduct on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital needs and our plans for the growth of our business. In addition, if funds are available, the issuance of equity securities could significantly dilute the value of our shares of our common stock and cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We have the ability to issue a significant number of shares of stock in future transactions, which would substantially dilute existing stockholders, without seeking further stockholder approval.In recent periods, the global financial markets were in turmoil and the equity and credit markets experienced extreme volatility, which caused already weak economic conditions to worsen. Continued turmoil in the global financial markets could further restrict our access to the equity and debt markets.The market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile.17Table of Contents    From January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2014, the price per share of our common stock ranged from a low of $7.08 to a high of $25.58. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Among the factors that may affect our stock price are the following:•speculation in the investment community or the press about, or actual changes in, our competitive position, organizational structure, executive team, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, or strategic transactions;•the announcement of new products, services, acquisitions, or dispositions by us or our competitors; and•increases or decreases in revenues or earnings, changes in earnings estimates by the investment community, and variations between estimated financial results and actual financial results.Changes in the stock market generally or as it concerns our industry may also affect our stock price. In the past, volatility in the market price of a company’s securities has often led to securities class action litigation. Such litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our attention and resources, which could harm our business. We have been a party to litigation related to the decline in the market price of our stock in the past and such litigation could occur again in the future. Declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price to increase could also harm our ability to retain key employees, reduce our access to capital, impact our ability to utilize deferred tax assets in the event of another ownership change and otherwise harm our business.We have provisions in our organizational documents that may discourage takeover attempts.Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us in a merger, acquisition or similar transaction that a stockholder may consider favorable. Such provisions include:•authorization for the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock;•the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors;•a super-majority voting requirement to effect business combinations and certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•limits on the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders;•the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; and•advance notice requirements for nominations to the Board or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.In addition, certain provisions of our stock incentive plans, management retention and employment agreements (including severance payments and stock option acceleration), our senior secured credit facility, certain provisions of Delaware law and certain provisions of the indentures governing certain series of our debt securities that would require us to offer to purchase such securities at a premium in the event of certain changes in our ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.ITEM 1B