Item 1A. Risk Factors.Among the risks that could materially adversely affect Eaton's businesses, financial condition or results of operations are the following:Eaton may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Cooper or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.Eaton's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Cooper transaction will depend, to a large extent, on the Company's ability to integrate the two businesses. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:•the diversion of management's attention to integration matters;•difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining the business of Cooper with that of Eaton;•difficulties in the integration of operations and systems;•difficulties in the assimilation of employees;•difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company;•challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and•challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel.Many of these factors will be outside of Eaton's control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition, and results of operations of Eaton. Volatility of end markets that Eaton serves. Eaton's segment revenues, operating results, and profitability have varied in the past and may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. Profitability can be negatively impacted by volatility in the end markets that Eaton serves. The Company has undertaken measures to reduce the impact of this volatility through diversification of markets it serves and expansion of geographic regions in which it operates. Future downturns in any of the markets could adversely affect revenues, operating results, and profitability.Eaton's operating results depend in part on continued successful research, development, and marketing of new and/or improved products and services, and there can be no assurance that Eaton will continue to successfully introduce new products and services.The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by Eaton's customers. The Company's businesses are affected, to varying degrees, by technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which could result in unpredictable product transitions or shortened life cycles. Eaton may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production, or marketing of new products and services which may prevent Eaton from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market.  4Table of ContentsEaton's ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to the Company's results of operations and future growth.Eaton depends on the continued services and performance of key executives, senior management, and skilled personnel, particularly professionals with experience in its industry and business. Eaton cannot be certain that any of these individuals will continue his or her employment with the Company. A lengthy period of time is required to hire and develop replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart. An inability to hire, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder the business by, for example, delaying Eaton's ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of the Company's operations.Eaton's operations depend on production facilities throughout the world, which subjects them to varying degrees of risk of disrupted production.Eaton manages businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide. The Company's manufacturing facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, economic upheaval, or public health concerns. Some of these conditions are more likely in certain geographic regions in which Eaton operates. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate for losses.If Eaton is unable to protect its information technology infrastructure against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, operations could be disrupted or data confidentiality lost.Eaton relies on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection. These technology networks and systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components; power outages; hardware failures; or computer viruses. In addition, security breaches could result in unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If these information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown, and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, there could be a negative impact on operating results or the Company may suffer financial or reputational damage. Eaton's global operations subject it to economic risk as Eaton's results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in government regulations and policies and currency fluctuations.Operating globally subjects Eaton to changes in government regulations and policies in a large number of jurisdictions around the world, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, property ownership rights, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and could affect Eaton's operating results. While the Company monitors exchange rate exposures and attempts to reduce these exposures through hedging activities, these risks could adversely affect operating results.Eaton may be subject to risks relating to changes in its tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities.Eaton is subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions around the world. Income tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The Company's effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, or changes in tax laws. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to ongoing audits by tax authorities in the countries in which Eaton operates. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to the Company's tax liabilities.Eaton uses a variety of raw materials and components in its businesses, and significant shortages, price increases, or supplier insolvencies could increase operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of Eaton's products.Eaton's major requirements for raw materials are described above in Item 1 “Raw Materials”. Significant shortages could affect the prices Eaton's businesses are charged and the competitive position of their products and services, all of which could adversely affect operating results.Further, Eaton's suppliers of component parts may increase their prices in response to increases in costs of raw materials that they use to manufacture component parts. As a result, the Company may not be able to increase its prices commensurately with its increased costs, adversely affecting operating results. 5Table of ContentsEaton may be unable to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, which could affect the Company's ability to compete.Protecting Eaton's intellectual property rights is critical to its ability to compete and succeed. The Company owns a large number of patents and patent applications worldwide, as well as trademark and copyright registrations that are necessary, and contribute significantly, to the preservation of Eaton's competitive position in various markets. Although management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of Eaton or its business segments, there can be no assurance that any one, or more, of these patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. Eaton enters into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with the Company's employees, and into non-disclosure agreements with suppliers and appropriate customers, so as to limit access to and disclosure of proprietary information. These measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of similar technologies. Eaton is subject to litigation and environmental regulations that could adversely impact Eaton's businesses.At any given time, Eaton may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Information regarding current legal proceedings is presented in Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Legislative and regulatory action could materially adversely affect Eaton. Legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the U.S. which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which Eaton relies or broaden the circumstances under which the Company would be considered a U.S. resident, each of which could materially and adversely affect its effective tax rate and/or require the Company to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve its effective tax rate. Eaton cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative or regulatory proposals. However, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding the incorporation in Ireland or limiting Eaton's ability as an Irish company to take advantage of tax treaties with the U.S., the Company could be subject to increased taxation and/or potentially significant expense. Item 1B