ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS

 


 
  
  RISK
  FACTORS
  
  
   
  
  
  DISCUSSION
  AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE
  
 
 
  
  International Trade
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company primarily
  provides services to customers engaged in international commerce. Everything
  that affects international trade has the potential to expand or contract the
  Company’s primary market. For example, international trade is influenced by:
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·
  
  
  currency exchange rate
  and interest rate fluctuations;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·
  
  
  changes in governmental
  policies;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·
  
  
  changes in and
  application of international and domestic customs, trade and security
  regulations;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·
  
  
  wars, acts of
  terrorism, and other conflicts;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·
  
  
  natural disasters;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·
  
  
  changes in consumer
  attitudes regarding goods made in countries other than their own;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·
  
  
  changes in the price
  and readily available quantities of oil and other petroleum-related products;
  and
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·
  
  
  increased global
  concerns regarding environmental sustainability.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Third Party Vendors
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company is a
  non-asset based supplier of global logistics services. As a result, the
  Company depends on a variety of asset-based third party vendors. The quality
  and profitability of the Company’s services depend upon effective selection,
  management and discipline of third party vendors.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Predictability of
  Results
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company is not
  aware of any accurate means of forecasting short-term customer requirements.
  However, long-term customer satisfaction depends upon the Company’s ability
  to meet these unpredictable short-term customer requirements. Personnel
  costs, the Company’s single largest variable expense, are always less
  flexible in the very near term as the Company must staff to meet uncertain
  demand. As a result, short-term operating results could be disproportionately
  affected.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Foreign Operations
  
  
   
  
  
  The majority of the
  Company’s revenues and operating income come from operations conducted
  outside the United States. To maintain a global service network, the Company
  may be required to operate in hostile locations and in dangerous situations.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Key Personnel
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company is a
  service business. The quality of this service is directly related to the
  quality of the Company’s employees. Identifying, training and retaining key
  employees is essential to continued growth and future profitability.
  Continued loyalty to the Company will not be assured by contract.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Technology
  
  
   
  
  
  Increasingly, the
  Company must compete based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the
  technologies utilized in performing its core businesses. Future results
  depend upon the Company’s success in the cost effective development and
  integration of communication and information systems technologies.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Growth
  
  
   
  
  
  To date, the Company
  has relied primarily upon organic growth and has tended to avoid growth
  through acquisition. Future results will depend upon the Company’s ability to
  continue to grow internally or to demonstrate the ability to successfully
  identify and integrate non-dilutive acquisitions.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Regulatory Environment
  
  
   
  
  
  As a publicly traded
  corporation, the Company is affected by regulations from a number of sources.
  The current business environment tends to stress the avoidance of risk
  through regulation and oversight, the effect of which is likely to be
  unforeseen costs and potentially unforeseen consequences.
   
  In reaction to the
  global war on terror, governments around the world are continuously enacting
  or updating security regulations. The implementation of these regulations,
  including deadlines and substantive requirements, is driven by political
  urgencies rather than the industries’ realistic ability to comply. Failure to
  timely comply may result in increased operating costs, restrictions on
  operations and/or fines and penalties.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Litigation/Investigations
  
  
   
  
  
  As a multinational
  corporation, the Company is subject to formal or informal investigations or
  litigation from governmental authorities in the countries in which it does
  business. The Company is currently subject to, and is cooperating fully with,
  an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) of air cargo freight
  forwarders. This investigation may require further management time and cause
  the Company to incur substantial additional legal and related costs, which
  could include fines and/or penalties if the DOJ concludes that the Company
  has engaged in anti-competitive behavior. The Company may be subject to other
  civil litigation arising from this investigation, including but not limited
  to shareholder class action lawsuits and derivative claims made on behalf of
  us. In addition, the Company has been named as a defendant in a Federal class
  action lawsuit filed in New York and will incur additional costs related to
  defending itself in these proceedings.
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 


 

11












 

ITEM 1B