Item 1A.  For
additional information about forward-looking statements, see “Safe Harbor for
Forward-Looking Statements Under Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995;
Certain Cautionary Statements” immediately preceding Part II, Item 7 “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in
this report.

 

PART I

 

ITEM 1—BUSINESS

 

Expeditors International
of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of providing global
logistics services.  The Company offers
its customers a seamless international network supporting the movement and
strategic positioning of goods.  The
Company’s services include the consolidation or forwarding of air and ocean
freight.  In each United States office,
and in many overseas offices, the Company acts as a customs broker.  The Company also provides additional services
including distribution management, vendor consolidation, cargo insurance,
purchase order management and customized logistics information.  The Company does not compete for domestic
freight, overnight courier or small parcel business and does not own aircraft
or steamships.

 

The Company, including
its majority-owned subsidiaries, operates full service offices (•) in the
cities identified below.  Full service
offices have also been established in locations where the Company maintains
unilateral control over assets and operations and where the existence of the
parent-subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record
ownership of voting stock (#).   In other
cities, the Company contracts with independent agents to provide required
services and has established approximately 110 such relationships
world-wide.  Locations where Company
employees perform sales and customer service functions are identified below as
international service centers (*). 
Wholly owned locations operating under the supervision and control of
another full service office are identified as satellite offices (+).  In each case, the opening date for the full
service office, international service center or satellite office is set forth
in parenthesis.

 


 
  
  NORTH AMERICA
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  UNITED STATES
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Dallas (5/92)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Pittsburgh (6/99)
  
  
   
  
  
  MEXICO
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Seattle (5/79)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Columbus (6/92)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Savannah (3/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Mexico City (6/95)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Chicago (7/81)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Charlotte (7/92)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Milwaukee (7/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Nuevo Laredo (4/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  San Francisco (7/81)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Newark (9/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Kansas City (8/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Guadalajara (9/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  New York (11/81)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Philadelphia (3/95)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Washington, D.C. (9/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Nogales (1/99)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Los Angeles (5/82)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Charleston (6/95)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Nashville (10/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Ciudad Juarez (5/00)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Atlanta (8/83)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Memphis (8/95)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Huntsville (12/02)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Monterrey (1/05)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Boston (11/85)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Salt Lake City (11/95)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Austin (2/03)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Miami (3/86)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Syracuse (4/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Orlando (8/03)
  
  
   
  
  
  SOUTH AND CENTRAL
  AMERICA
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Minneapolis (7/86)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Norfolk (9/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Tampa (9/03)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Denver (2/88)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Indianapolis (11/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  + New Orleans (9/04)
  
  
   
  
  
  ARGENTINA
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Detroit (7/88)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Port Huron-Blue Water
  Bridge (12/96)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Buenos Aires (1/98)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Portland (7/88)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Detroit-Ambassador
  Bridge (12/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  PUERTO RICO
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Cincinnati (8/89)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Lewiston-Queenston
  (12/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  San Juan (5/95)
  
  
   
  
  
  BRAZIL
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Cleveland (7/90)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Buffalo-Peace Bridge (1/97)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Sao Paulo (9/95)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Phoenix (7/91)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  El Paso (1/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  CANADA
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Rio de Janeiro (9/95)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Louisville (10/91)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Laredo (2/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Toronto (5/84)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Campinas (9/95)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  St. Louis (4/92)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Nogales (2/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Vancouver (9/95)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Santos (10/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Houston (4/92)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  San Diego (7/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Windsor (6/98)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Manaus (7/00)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Baltimore (4/92)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Rochester (10/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Montreal (4/99)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Porto Alegre (1/05)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  McAllen (4/98)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Calgary (9/04)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 


 

2












 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  CHILE
  
  
   
  
  
  JAPAN
  
  
   
  
  
  FRANCE
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Glasgow (4/92)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Santiago (2/95)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Tokyo (1/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Paris (1/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Bristol (3/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Concepcion (4/03)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Osaka (1/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Mulhouse (1/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  East Midlands (1/99)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Lyon (1/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Hull (1/00)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  COLOMBIA
  
  
   
  
  
  KOREA
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Lille (3/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Belfast (9/01)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Bogota (12/98)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Pusan (10/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Bordeaux (7/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Aberdeen (9/05)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Cali (12/98)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Seoul (10/94)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Medellin (7/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Bupyung (6/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  GERMANY
  
  
   
  
  
  AUSTRALASIA
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  + Chonan (6/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Frankfurt (4/92)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  COSTA RICA
  
  
   
  
  
  + Kwangju (6/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Munich (4/92)
  
  
   
  
  
  AUSTRALIA
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  San Jose (10/03)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Kumi (6/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Dusseldorf (4/92)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Sydney (8/88)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  + Masan (6/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Stuttgart (4/92)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Melbourne (8/88)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  PERU
  
  
   
  
  
  + Taegu (6/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Hamburg (1/93)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Brisbane (10/93)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Lima (12/05)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Nuremberg (1/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Perth (12/94)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  MALAYSIA
  
  
   
  
  
  + Hannover (1/05)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Adelaide (10/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  VENEZUELA
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Penang (11/87)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Caracas (1/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Kuala Lumpur (6/90)
  
  
   
  
  
  HUNGARY
  
  
   
  
  
  FIJI
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Johor Bahru (11/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Budapest (4/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  * Nadi (7/96)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  ASIA
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  * Suva (5/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  MARIANA ISLANDS
  
  
   
  
  
  IRELAND
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  BANGLADESH
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Saipan (7/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Dublin (3/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  NEW ZEALAND
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Dhaka (6/89)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Cork (3/97)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Auckland (8/88)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Chittagong (8/93)
  
  
   
  
  
  PHILIPPINES
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Shannon (3/97)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Manila (8/98)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  NEAR/MIDDLE EAST
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  CAMBODIA
  
  
   
  
  
  + Olongapo City (8/98)
  
  
   
  
  
  ITALY
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Phnom Penh (4/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Mandaue City (9/99)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Milan (4/93)
  
  
   
  
  
  EGYPT
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Verona (4/93)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Cairo (2/95)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  CHINA
  
  
   
  
  
  SINGAPORE
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Florence (3/98)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Alexandria (2/95)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Guangzhou (4/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Singapore (9/81)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Turin (4/05)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Beijing (7/94)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  GREECE
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Dalian (7/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  TAIWAN
  
  
   
  
  
  THE NETHERLANDS
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Athens (2/99)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Shanghai (7/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Taipei (9/81)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Amsterdam (6/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Thessaloniki (2/99)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Shenzhen (7/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Kaohsiung (9/81)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Rotterdam (3/95)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Qingdao (7/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Taichung (9/81)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  INDIA
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Tianjin (7/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Hsin-Chu (9/89)
  
  
   
  
  
  POLAND
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  New Delhi (7/96)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Xi’an (7/94)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Warsaw (2/05)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Mumbai (Bombay) (1/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Xiamen (7/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  THAILAND
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Bangalore (6/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Chengdu (9/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Bangkok (9/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  PORTUGAL
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Chennai (Madras) (6/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Ningbo (7/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Laem Chabang (8/05)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Lisbon (10/91)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Hyderabad (9/01)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Suzhou (9/01)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Oporto (10/91)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Tiruppur (3/05)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Zhongshan (9/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  VIETNAM
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Hangzhou (10/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Ho Chi Minh City (5/00)
  
  
   
  
  
  SPAIN
  
  
   
  
  
  KUWAIT
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Kunshan (12/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Hanoi (3/04)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Barcelona (1/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  # Kuwait City (7/97)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Fuzhou (6/02)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Da Nang (9/05)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Madrid (1/94)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Yantai (11/02)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Alicante (4/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  LEBANON
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Shenyang (12/02)
  
  
   
  
  
  EUROPE
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Beirut (8/99)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Wuhan (1/03)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  SWEDEN
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Huizhou (12/03)
  
  
   
  
  
  AUSTRIA
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Stockholm (1/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  PAKISTAN
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Zhuhai (12/03)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Vienna (11/95)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Goteborg (1/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Karachi (9/96)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Foshan (1/04)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  + Malmoe (3/05)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Lahore (9/96)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Chongqing (7/04)
  
  
   
  
  
  BELGIUM
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  + Sialkot (6/03)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Dongguan (2/05)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Brussels (7/90)
  
  
   
  
  
  SWITZERLAND
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Nanjing (3/05)
  
  
   
  
  
  +Antwerp (4/91)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Chiasso (2/01)
  
  
   
  
  
  SAUDI ARABIA
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Macau (5/05)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Zurich (10/05)
  
  
   
  
  
  # Riyadh (7/92)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  THE CZECH REPUBLIC
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  # Jeddah (7/92)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  HONG KONG
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Prague (6/98)
  
  
   
  
  
  UNITED KINGDOM
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Kowloon (9/81)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  London (4/86)
  
  
   
  
  
  SRI LANKA
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  FINLAND
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Manchester (11/88)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Colombo (3/95)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  INDONESIA
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Helsinki (4/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Birmingham (3/90)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Jakarta (12/90)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Surabaya (2/92)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 


 

3












 

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  AFRICA
  
  
   
  
  
  MADAGASCAR
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  TURKEY
  
  
   
  
  
  U.A.E.
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Antananarivo (11/01)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Ankara (1/99)
  
  
   
  
  
  * Abu Dhabi (1/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  SOUTH AFRICA
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Istanbul (1/99)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Dubai (10/98)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Johannesburg (3/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  MAURITIUS
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Izmir (1/99)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Durban (3/94)
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Port Louis (7/99)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  Mersin (1/99)
  
  
   
  
  
  CYPRUS
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  Capetown (1/97)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  + Adana (1/99)
  
  
   
  
  
  * Nicosia (6/96)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Maseru (6/03)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  * Larnaca (1/98)
  
  
   
  
  
  + Port Elizabeth (7/03)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 


 

The Company was
incorporated in the State of Washington in May 1979.  Its executive offices are located at 1015
Third Avenue, 12th Floor, Seattle, Washington, and its telephone
number is (206) 674-3400.

 

The Company’s internet
address is http://www.expeditors.com. 
The Company makes available free of charge through its internet website
its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon
as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

 

For information
concerning the amount of revenues, net revenues, operating income, identifiable
assets, capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization attributable to
the geographic areas in which the Company conducts its business, see Note 9 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

Beginning in 1981, the
Company’s primary business focus was on airfreight shipments from Asia to the
United States and related customs brokerage and other services.  In the mid-1980’s, the Company began to
expand its service capabilities in export airfreight, ocean freight and
distribution services.  Today the Company
offers a complete range of global logistics services to a diversified group of
customers, both in terms of industry specialization and geographic
location.  As opportunities for
profitable growth arise, the Company plans to create new offices.  While the Company has historically expanded
through organic growth, the Company has also been open to growth through
acquisition of, or establishing joint ventures with, existing agents or others
within the industry.

 

Airfreight
Services

 

Airfreight services
accounted for approximately 37, 39, and 37 percent of the Company’s 2005, 2004,
and 2003 consolidated revenues net of freight consolidation expenses (“net
revenues”), respectively.  When
performing airfreight services, the Company typically acts either as a freight
consolidator or as an agent for the airline which carries the shipment.  When acting as a freight consolidator, the
Company purchases cargo space from airlines on a volume basis and resells that
space to its customers at lower rates than the customers could obtain directly
from airlines.  When moving shipments
between points where the volume of business does not facilitate consolidation,
the Company receives and forwards individual shipments as the agent of the
airline which carries the shipment. Whether acting as an agent or consolidator,
the Company offers its customers knowledge of optimum routing, familiarity with
local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and
procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with
space availability in periods of peak demand.

 

In its airfreight
forwarding operations, the Company procures shipments from its customers,
determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a particular airport
distribution point, and selects the airline for transportation to the
distribution point.  At the distribution
point, the Company or its agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken
down into its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments
to their final destinations.

 

The Company estimates its
average airfreight consolidation weighs approximately 3,500 to 4,500 pounds and
a typical consolidation includes merchandise from several shippers.  Because shipment by air is relatively expensive
compared with ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized
by a high value-to-weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both.

 

The Company typically
delivers shipments from a Company warehouse at the origin to the airline after
consolidating the freight into containers or onto pallets.  Shipments normally arrive at the destination
distribution point within forty-eight hours after such delivery.  During peak shipment periods, cargo space
available from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of
freight shipments may occur.  When these
conditions exist, the Company may charter aircraft to meet customer demand.

 

The Company consolidates
individual shipments based on weight and volume characteristics in
cost-effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or volume of a shipment
increases, the cost per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter charged by the
Company decreases.  The rates charged by
airlines to forwarders and others also generally decrease as the weight or volume
of the shipment increases.  As a result,
by aggregating shipments and presenting them to an airline as a single
shipment, the Company is able to obtain

 

4












 

a lower rate per
pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than that which it charges to its customers
for the individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate
than could be obtained from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment.

 

The Company’s net
airfreight forwarding revenues from a consolidated shipment include the
differential between the rate charged to the Company by an airline and the rate
which the Company charges to its customers, commissions paid to the Company by
the airline carrying the freight and fees for ancillary services.  Such ancillary services provided by the
Company include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing,
crating and insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and
preparation of documentation to comply with local export laws.  When the Company acts as an agent for an
airline handling an unconsolidated

shipment, its net
revenues are primarily derived from commissions paid by the airline and fees
for ancillary services paid by the customer.

 

The Company does not own
aircraft and does not plan to do so. 
Management believes that the ownership of aircraft would subject the
Company to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased
fixed operating expenses, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition
with airlines.  Because the Company
relies on commercial airlines to transport its shipments, changes in carrier
policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms, scheduling, and
frequency of service may affect its business.

 

The Company also performs
breakbulk services which involve receiving and breaking down consolidated
airfreight lots and arranging for distribution of the individual
shipments.  Breakbulk service revenues
also include commissions from agents for airfreight shipments.

 

Customs Brokerage
and Other Services

 

Customs brokerage and
other services accounted for approximately 38, 38, and 37 percent of the
Company’s 2005, 2004, and 2003 consolidated net revenues, respectively.  As a customs broker, the Company assists
importers to clear shipments through customs by preparing required
documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties on behalf of the
importer, arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and
arranging for delivery.  The Company also
provides other value added services at destination such as warehousing and
product distribution, time definite transportation and inventory
management.  None of these other services
are currently individually significant to the Company’s net revenues.

 

The Company provides
customs clearance services in connection with many of the shipments it handles
as a freight forwarder.  However,
substantial customs brokerage revenues are derived from customers that elect to
use a competing forwarder.   Conversely,
shipments handled by the Company as a forwarder may be processed by another
customs broker selected by the customer.

 

The Company also provides
custom clearances for goods moving by rail and truck between the United States,
Canada and/or Mexico.  The commodities
being cleared and the time sensitive nature of the border brokerage business
require the Company to continue to make enhancements to its systems in order to
provide competitive service.

 

During 1996 the Company
established a subsidiary, Expeditors Tradewin, L.L.C., to respond to customer
driven requests for high-end customs consulting services.  The demand for these services was stimulated
by the changes made by Customs and Border Protection of the Department of
Homeland Security in response to the 1993 Customs Modernization Act.  Fees for these non-transactional services are
based upon hourly billing rates and bids for mutually agreed procedures.

 

Ocean Freight and
Ocean Services

 

Ocean freight services
accounted for approximately 25, 23, and 26 percent of the Company’s 2005, 2004,
and 2003 consolidated net revenues, respectively.  The Company’s revenues as an ocean freight
forwarder are derived from commissions paid by the carrier and revenues from
fees charged to customers for ancillary services which the Company may provide,
such as preparing documentation, procuring insurance, arranging for packing and
crating services, and providing consultation. 
The Company operates Expeditors International Ocean (“EIO”), a
Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier (“NVOCC”) specializing in ocean freight
consolidation from Asia to the United States.  
EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and from any location
where the Company has an office or agent. 
As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain
transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a
specified time period at an agreed rate. 
EIO solicits Less-than Container Load (“LCL”) freight to fill the
containers and charges lower rates than those available directly from shipping
lines.  EIO also handles full container
loads for customers that do not have annual shipping volumes sufficient to
negotiate comparable contracts directly with the ocean carriers.  The Company does not own vessels and
generally does not physically handle the cargo.

 

5












 

Expeditors Cargo
Management Systems (“ECMS”) supplies a sophisticated ocean consolidation
service.  The Company owns and maintains
software that allows it to sell ECMS to large volume customers that have signed
their own service contracts with the ocean carriers.  As an ocean consolidator, ECMS may obtain LCL
freight from several vendors and consolidate this cargo into full containers.  The Company’s revenues as an ocean
consolidator are derived from handling LCL cargo at origin and from the fees
paid by customers for access to data captured during the consolidation process.

 

Marketing and
Customers

 

The Company provides
flexible service and seeks to understand the needs of the customers from points
of origin to ultimate destinations. 
Although the domestic importer usually designates the logistics company
and the services that will be required, the foreign shipper may also
participate in this selection process. 
Therefore, the Company coordinates its marketing program to reach both
domestic importers and their overseas suppliers.

 

The Company’s marketing
efforts are focused primarily on the traffic, shipping and purchasing
departments of existing and potential customers.  The district manager of each office is
responsible for marketing, sales coordination, and implementation in the area
in which he or she is located.  All
employees are responsible for customer service and relations.

 

The Company staffs its
offices largely with managers and other key personnel who are citizens of the
nations in which they operate and who have extensive experience in global
logistics.  Marketing and customer
service staffs are responsible for marketing the Company’s services directly to
local shippers and traffic managers who may select or influence the selection
of the logistics vendor and for ensuring that customers receive timely and
efficient service.  The Company believes
that its expertise in supplying solutions customized to the needs of its
customers, its emphasis on coordinating its origin and destination customer
service and marketing activities, and the incentives it gives to its managers
have been important elements of its success.

 

The goods handled by the
Company are generally a function of the products which dominate international
trade between any particular origin and destination.  Shipments of computer components, other
electronic equipment, housewares, sporting goods, machine parts, and toys,
comprise a significant percentage of the Company’s business.  Typical import customers include computer
retailers and distributors of consumer electronics, department store chains,
clothing and shoe wholesalers, manufacturers and catalogue stores.  Historically, no single customer has
accounted for five percent or more of the Company’s revenues.

 

Competition

 

The global logistics
services industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the
foreseeable future.  There are a large
number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, but the
number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics
services is more limited.  Depending on
the location of the shipper and the importer, the Company must compete against
both the niche players and larger entities. 
While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward
consolidation into larger firms striving for immediate multinational and
multi-service networks, the regional and local competitors maintain a strong
market presence.

 

Historically, the primary
competitive factors in the global logistics services industry have been price
and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise,
convenience, and scope of operations. 
The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are
competitive with the prices of others in the industry.  Recently, larger customers have exhibited a
trend toward more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of
the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just-in-time
inventory management.  This trend has
made computerized customer service capabilities a significant factor in
attracting and retaining customers. 
These computerized customer service capabilities include customized
Electronic Data Interchange, (“EDI”), and on-line freight tracing and tracking
applications.  The customized EDI
applications allow the transfer of key information between the customers’
systems and the Company’s systems. 
Freight tracing and tracking applications allow customers to know the location,
transit time and estimated delivery time of inventory in transit.

 

Management believes that
the ability to develop and deliver innovative solutions to meet customers’
increasingly sophisticated information requirements is a critical factor in the
ongoing success of the Company. 
Accordingly, the Company has devoted a significant amount of resources
towards the maintenance and enhancement of systems that will meet these
customer demands.  Management believes
that the Company’s existing systems are competitive with the systems currently
in use by other logistics services companies with which it competes.

 

Unlike many of its
competitors, who have tended to grow by merger and acquisition, the Company
operates the same accounting and transportation computer software, running on a
common hardware platform, in all of its full-service locations.  Small and middle-tier competitors, in
general, do not have the resources available to develop these customized
systems.  As a result, there is a
significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the
industry.  Management expects that this
trend toward consolidation will continue for the short- to medium-term.  Historically, growth through aggressive
acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Company’s competitors
and typically involves the purchase of significant “goodwill.”  As a result, the Company has pursued a
strategy

 

6












 

emphasizing organic
growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions.

 

The Company’s ability to
attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel with experience in
global logistics services is an essential, if not the most important, element
of its ability to compete in the industry. 
To this end, the Company has adopted incentive compensation programs
which make percentages of branch revenues or profits available to managers for
distribution among key personnel.  The
Company believes that these incentive compensation programs, combined with its
experienced personnel and its ability to coordinate global marketing efforts,
provide it with a distinct competitive advantage and account for historical
growth that competitors have generally matched only through acquisition.

 

Currency and Other
Risk Factors

 

The nature of the Company’s
worldwide operations necessitate the Company dealing with a multitude of
currencies other than the U.S. dollar. 
This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the
international currency markets and governmental interference.  Many of the countries where the Company
maintains offices and/or agency relationships have strict currency control
regulations which influence the Company’s ability to hedge foreign currency
exposure.  The Company tries to
compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency
settlements among these offices or agents.

 

In addition, the Company’s
ability to provide service to its customers is highly dependent on good working
relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, steamship lines
and governmental agencies.  The Company
considers its current working relationships with these entities to be
good.  However, changes in space
allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, “modernization”
of the regulations governing customs clearance, and/or changes in governmental
quota restrictions could affect the Company’s business in unpredictable ways.

 

Seasonality

 

Historically, the Company’s
operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a
quarterly basis.  The first quarter has
traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have
traditionally been the strongest.  This
pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors including
climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad
of other similar and subtle forces.  In
addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and
diversification of the Company’s international network and service
offerings.  The Company cannot accurately
forecast many of these factors, nor can the Company estimate accurately the
relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no
assurance that historical patterns will continue in future periods.

 

A significant portion of
the Company’s revenues are derived from customers in industries whose shipping
patterns are tied closely to consumer demand and from customers in industries
whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just-in-time production schedules.  Therefore, the timing of the Company’s
revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Company’s
control, such as shifting consumer demand for retail goods and manufacturing
production delays.  Additionally, many
customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a
quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues
until late in a quarter.  To the extent
that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities
analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could
have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Company’s
stock.

 

Environmental

 

In the United States, the
Company is subject to Federal, state and local provisions regulating the
discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise for the protection of
the environment.  Similar laws apply in
many other jurisdictions in which the Company operates.  Although current operations have not been
significantly affected by compliance with these environmental laws, governments
are becoming increasingly sensitive to environmental issues, and the Company
cannot predict what impact future environmental regulations may have on its
business.  The Company does not
anticipate making any material capital expenditures for environmental control
purposes during the remainder of the current or succeeding fiscal years.

 

Employees

 

At
January 31, 2006, the Company employed approximately 10,600 people, 3,900
in the United States and 625 in the balance of North America, 525 in South
America, 1,460 in Europe, 2,900 in Asia & Australasia, 900 in the
Near/Middle East and 290 in Africa. 
Approximately 1,500 of the Company’s employees are engaged principally
in sales and marketing and customer service, 6,525 in operations and 2,575 in
finance and administration.  The Company
is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and considers its
relations with its employees to be satisfactory.

 

In
order to retain the services of highly qualified, experienced, and motivated
employees, the Company places considerable emphasis on its incentive
compensation programs and stock option plans.

 

7












 

Executive Officers
of the Registrant

 

                                                The
following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions of current executive
officers of the Company.

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Position
  
 
 
  
  Peter J. Rose
  
  
   
  
  
  62
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer and director
  
 
 
  
  James L.K. Wang
  
  
   
  
  
  57
  
  
   
  
  
  President-Asia and
  director
  
 
 
  
  Glenn M. Alger
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
  
  President and Chief
  Operating Officer
  
 
 
  
  Rommel C. Saber
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
  
  President-Europe,
  Africa, Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent
  
 
 
  
  Robert L. Villanueva
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  President-The Americas
  
 
 
  
  Sandy K.Y. Liu
  
  
   
  
  
  58
  
  
   
  
  
  Chief Operating
  Officer-Asia
  
 
 
  
  R. Jordan Gates
  
  
   
  
  
  50
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President-Chief Financial Officer and director
  
 
 
  
  Timothy C. Barber
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President-Global Sales
  
 
 
  
  Rosanne Esposito
  
  
   
  
  
  54
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Vice
  President-Global Customs
  
 
 
  
  Eugene K. Alger
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-North America
  
 
 
  
  L. Manfred Amberger
  
  
   
  
  
  57
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-Continental Europe
  
 
 
  
  Jean Claude Carcaillet
  
  
   
  
  
  60
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-Australasia
  
 
 
  
  Philip M. Coughlin
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-North America
  
 
 
  
  Roger A. Idiart
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-Air Cargo
  
 
 
  
  Jeffrey J. King
  
  
   
  
  
  51
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-General Counsel and Secretary
  
 
 
  
  Charles J. Lynch
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-Corporate Controller
  
 
 
  
  Jeffrey S. Musser
  
  
   
  
  
  40
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President
  and Chief Information Officer
  
 
 
  
  Daniel R. Wall
  
  
   
  
  
  37
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice
  President-Ocean Services
  
 


 

Peter
J. Rose has served as a director and Vice President of the Company since July 1981.  Mr. Rose was elected a Senior Vice
President of the Company in May 1986, Executive Vice President in May 1987,
President and Chief Executive Officer in October 1988, and Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer in May 1991.

 

James
L.K. Wang has served as a director and the Managing Director of Expeditors
International Taiwan Ltd., the Company’s former exclusive Taiwan agent, since September 1981.  In 1991, Mr. Wang’s employment agreement
was assigned to E.I. Freight (Taiwan), Ltd., the Company's exclusive Taiwan
agent through 2004.  Mr. Wang's contract
is now assigned to ECI Taiwan Co. Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company.  In October 1988, Mr. Wang
became a director of the Company and its Director-Far East, and Executive Vice
President in January 1996.  In May 2000,
Mr. Wang was elected President-Asia.

 

Glenn
M. Alger joined the Company in July 1981 as a District Manager.  Mr. Alger was elected Vice President and
Regional Manager in October 1988, Senior Vice President-U.S. Operations in
January 1992, Senior Vice President and Director-North America in January 1993,
and Executive Vice President and Director-North America in March 1997.  In September 1999, Mr. Alger was
elected President and Chief Operating Officer.

 

Rommel
C. Saber joined the Company as Director-Near/Middle East in February 1990
and was elected Senior Vice President-Sales and Marketing in January 1993.  Mr. Saber was elected Senior Vice
President-Air Export in September 1993.  In July 1997 he was elected Senior Vice
President Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent and Executive Vice
President-Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East in August 2000.  In February 2006, Mr. Saber was
elected President-Europe, Africa, Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent.

 

Robert
L. Villanueva joined the Company as Regional Vice President Northwest U.S.
Region in April 1994.  In September 1999,
he was elected Executive Vice President-The Americas and President-The Americas
in May 2004.

 

Sandy
K.Y. Liu became Chief Operating Officer-Asia of the Company in January 2001.  From 1969 through 2000, Mr. Liu was
employed in various positions by China Airlines.  In November 1998, Mr. Liu was
appointed President of China Airlines.

 

R.
Jordan Gates joined the Company as its Controller-Europe in February 1991.  Mr. Gates was elected Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer of the Company in August 1994 and Senior Vice
President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January 1998.  In May 2000, Mr. Gates was elected
Executive Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.  Mr. Gates was also elected as a director
in May 2000.

 

Timothy
C. Barber joined the Company in May 1986. 
Mr. Barber was promoted to District Manager of the Seattle office
in January 1987 and Regional Vice President in January 1993.  Mr. Barber was elected Vice
President-Sales and Marketing in September 1993 and Senior Vice
President-Sales and Marketing in January 1998.  In September 1999, Mr. Barber was
elected Executive Vice President-Global Sales.

 

8












 

Rosanne
Esposito joined the Company as its Director-U.S. Import Services in January 1996.  Ms. Esposito was promoted to Vice
President in May 1997 and Senior Vice President-Global Customs in May 2001.  In May 2004, Ms. Esposito was
promoted to Executive Vice President-Global Customs.

 

Eugene
K. Alger joined the Company in October 1982.  Mr. Alger was promoted to District
Manager and Regional Vice President of the Los Angeles office in May 1983.
 He was elected Regional Vice
President-Southwestern U.S. and Mexico Region in January 1992, and Senior
Vice President of North America in September 1999.

 

L.
Manfred Amberger joined the Company as Managing Director of Germany in April 1992.  Mr. Amberger was promoted to Regional
Director-Europe in May 1996 and Vice President in January 1998.  Mr. Amberger was elected Senior Vice
President-Continental Europe in May 2000.

 

Jean
Claude Carcaillet joined the Company as Managing Director-Australasia in August 1988.  He was elected Senior Vice
President-Australasia in September 1997.

 

Philip
M. Coughlin joined the Company in October 1985.  Mr. Coughlin was promoted to District
Manager in August 1986.  He was
elected Regional Manager for New England and Canada in January 1991,
Regional Vice President-Northeastern U.S. and Northern Border in January 1992,
and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999.

 

Roger
A. Idiart joined the Company as its Manager of Gateway Operations in December 1995.  Mr. Idiart was elected Vice
President-Global Air Cargo in January 1998, and Senior Vice President-Air
Cargo in May 2001.

 

Jeffrey
J. King joined the Company in October 1990 as Director-Taxation and Legal
Services and was elected Vice President-General Counsel in May 1992.  In August 1994, Mr. King was
elected Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary and Senior Vice
President-General Counsel and Secretary in January 1998.

 

Charles
J. Lynch joined the Company in September 1984.  Mr. Lynch was promoted to Assistant
Controller in July 1985 and Controller-Domestic Operations in January 1989.  Mr. Lynch was elected Corporate
Controller in January 1991 and Vice President-Corporate Controller in January 1998.  In May 2002, Mr. Lynch was elected
Senior Vice President-Corporate Controller.

 

Jeffrey S. Musser
joined the Company in February 1983. 
Mr. Musser was promoted to District Manager in October 1989 and
Regional Vice President in September 1999. 
Mr. Musser was elected Senior Vice President-Chief Information
Officer in January 2005.

 

Daniel
R. Wall joined the Company in March 1987. 
Mr. Wall was promoted to District Manager in May 1992 and
Global Director-Account Management in March 2002.  Mr. Wall was elected Vice President-ECMS
in January 2004 and Senior Vice President-Ocean Services in September 2004.

 

Regulation

 

With
respect to the Company’s activities in the air transportation industry in the
United States, it is subject to regulation by the Transportation Safety
Administration of the Department of Homeland Security as an indirect air
carrier.  The Company’s overseas offices
and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries
of operation.  The Company is licensed in
each of its offices or in the case of its newer offices, has made application
for a license, as an airfreight forwarder by the International Air Transport
Association (“IATA”). IATA is a voluntary association of airlines which
prescribes certain operating procedures for airfreight forwarders acting as
agents for its members.  The majority of
the Company’s airfreight forwarding business is conducted with airlines which
are IATA members.

 

The
Company is licensed as a customs broker by Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”)
of the Department of Homeland Security in each U.S. customs district in which
it does business.  All United States
customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to
periodic audits by CBP.  In other
jurisdictions in which the Company performs clearance services, the Company is
licensed by the appropriate governmental authority.

 

9












 

The
Company is registered as an Ocean Transportation Intermediary by the Federal
Maritime Commission (“FMC”).  The FMC

has established
certain qualifications for shipping agents, including certain surety bonding
requirements.  The FMC also is
responsible for the economic regulation of NVOCC activity originating or
terminating in the United States.  To
comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and NVOCCs, such as
EIO, are required to file tariffs electronically which establish the rates to
be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the United
States.  The FMC has the power to enforce
these regulations by assessing penalties.

 

The
Company does not believe that current United States and foreign governmental
regulations impose significant economic restraint upon its business
operations.  In general, the Company
conducts its business activities in each country through a majority-owned
subsidiary corporation that is organized and existing under the laws of that
country.  However, the regulations of
foreign governments can impose barriers to the Company’s ability to provide the
full range of its business activities in a wholly or majority United States-owned
subsidiary.  For example, foreign
ownership of a customs brokerage business is prohibited in some jurisdictions
and less frequently the ownership of the licenses required for freight
forwarding and/or freight consolidation is restricted to local entities.  When the Company encounters this sort of
governmental restriction, it works to establish a legal structure that meets
the requirements of the local regulations while also giving the Company the
substantive operating and economic advantages that would be available in the
absence of such regulation. This can be accomplished by creating a joint
venture or exclusive agency relationship with a qualified local entity that
holds the required license.  In cases
where the Company has unilateral control over the assets and operations of the
local entity, notwithstanding the lack of technical majority ownership of
common stock, the Company consolidates the accounts of the local entity.  In such cases, consolidation is necessary to
fairly present the financial position and results of operations of the Company
because of the existence of the parent-subsidiary relationship by means other
than record ownership of voting common stock.

 

Cargo Liability

 

When acting as an
airfreight consolidator, the Company assumes a carrier’s liability for lost or
damaged shipments. This legal liability is typically limited by contract to the
lower of the transaction value or the released value ($9.07 per pound unless
the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge), except if the loss
or damage is caused by willful misconduct or in the absence of an appropriate
airway bill.  The airline which the
Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company
in the same manner and to the same extent. 
When acting solely as the agent of the airline or shipper, the Company
does not assume any contractual liability for loss or damage to shipments
tendered to the airline.

 

When acting as an ocean
freight consolidator, the Company assumes a carrier’s liability for lost or
damaged shipments.  This liability is
typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the
released value ($500 per package or customary freight unit unless the customer
declares a higher value and pays a surcharge). 
The steamship line which the Company utilizes to make the actual
shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same
extent.  In its ocean freight forwarding
and customs clearance operations, the Company does not assume cargo liability.

 

When providing warehouse
and distribution services, the Company limits its legal liability by contract
and tariff to an amount generally equal to the lower of fair value or fifty
cents per pound with a maximum of fifty dollars per “lot” — which is defined as
the smallest unit that the warehouse is required to track.  Upon payment of a surcharge for warehouse and
distribution services, the Company will assume additional liability.

 

The Company maintains
marine cargo insurance covering claims for losses attributable to missing or
damaged shipments for which it is legally liable.  The Company also maintains insurance coverage
for the property of others which is stored in Company warehouse facilities.  This insurance coverage is provided by a
Vermont based insurance entity wholly owned by the Company.  The coverage is fronted and reinsured by a
global insurance company.  The total risk
retained by the Company in 2005 was approximately $3 million, although actual
and estimated losses are expected to be less. 
This self-retention will increase to $4 million as of February 2006.  In addition, the Company is licensed as an
insurance broker through its subsidiary, Expeditors Cargo Insurance Brokers, Inc.
and places stand alone insurance coverage for other customers.

 

10












 

ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS

 


 
  
  RISK FACTORS
  
  
   
  
  
  DISCUSSION AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE
  
 
 
  
  International Trade
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company primarily
  provides services to customers engaged in international commerce. Everything
  that affects international trade has the potential to expand or contract the
  Company’s primary market. For example, international trade is influenced by:
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •    currency exchange rate and interest rate
  fluctuations;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •    changes in governmental policies;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •    changes in international and domestic customs
  regulations;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •    wars, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •    natural disasters;
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •    changes in consumer attitudes regarding goods
  made in countries other than their own; and
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •    changes in the price and readily available
  quantities of oil and other petroleum-related products.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Third Party Vendors
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company is a
  non-asset based supplier of global logistics services. As a result, the
  Company depends on a variety of asset-based third party vendors. The quality
  and profitability of the Company’s services depend upon effective selection,
  management and discipline of third party vendors.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Predictability of
  Results
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company is not
  aware of any accurate means of forecasting short-term customer requirements.
  However, long-term customer satisfaction depends upon the Company’s ability
  to meet these unpredictable short-term customer requirements. Personnel
  costs, the Company’s single largest variable expense, are always less flexible
  in the very near term as the Company must staff to meet uncertain demand. As
  a result, short-term operating results could be disproportionately affected.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Foreign Operations
  
  
   
  
  
  The majority of the
  Company’s revenues and operating income come from operations conducted
  outside the United States. To maintain a global service network, the Company
  may be required to operate in hostile locations and in dangerous situations.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Key Personnel
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company is a
  service business. The quality of this service is directly related to the
  quality of the Company’s employees. Identifying, training and retaining key
  employees is essential to continued growth and future profitability.
  Continued loyalty to the Company will not be assured by contract.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Technology
  
  
   
  
  
  Increasingly, the
  Company must compete based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the
  technologies utilized in performing its core businesses. Future results
  depend upon the Company’s success in the cost effective development and
  integration of communication and information systems technologies.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Growth
  
  
   
  
  
  To date, the Company
  has relied primarily upon organic growth and has tended to avoid growth
  through acquisition. Future results will depend upon the Company’s ability to
  continue to grow internally or to demonstrate the ability to successfully
  identify and integrate non-dilutive acquisitions.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Regulatory Environment
  
  
   
  
  
  As a publicly traded
  corporation, the Company is affected by regulations from a number of sources.
  The current business environment tends to stress the avoidance of risk
  through regulation and oversight, the effect of which is likely to be
  unforeseen costs and potentially unforeseen consequences.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  In reaction to the
  global war on terror, governments around the world are continuously enacting
  or updating security regulations. The implementation of these regulations,
  including deadlines and substantive requirements, is driven by political
  urgencies rather than the industries’ realistic ability to comply. Failure to
  timely comply may result in increased operating costs, restrictions on
  operations and/or fines and penalties.
  
 


 

11












 

ITEM 1B