ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS

 


 
  
  RISK FACTORS
  
  
   
  
  
  DISCUSSION
  AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  International Trade
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company primarily provides services to customers
  engaged in international commerce. Everything that affects international
  trade has the potential to expand or contract the Company’s primary market.
  For example, international trade is influenced by:
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·  currency exchange rate and interest rate
  fluctuations;
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·  changes in governmental policies;
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·  changes in international and domestic
  customs regulations;
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·  wars, acts of terrorism, and other
  conflicts;
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·  natural disasters;
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·  changes in consumer attitudes regarding
  goods made in countries other than their own; and
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  ·  changes in the price and readily available
  quantities of oil and other petroleum-related products.
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Third Party Vendors
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company is a non-asset based supplier of global
  logistics services. As a result, the Company depends on a variety of
  asset-based third party vendors. The quality and profitability of the
  Company’s services depend upon effective selection, management and discipline
  of third party vendors.
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Predictability of Results
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company is not aware of any accurate means of
  forecasting short-term customer requirements. However, long-term customer
  satisfaction depends upon the Company’s ability to meet these unpredictable
  short-term customer requirements. Personnel costs, the Company’s single
  largest variable expense, are always less flexible in the very near term as
  the Company must staff to meet uncertain demand. As a result, short-term
  operating results could be disproportionately affected.
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Foreign Operations
  
  
   
  
  
  The majority of the Company’s revenues and operating
  income come from operations conducted outside the United States. To maintain
  a global service network, the Company may be required to operate in hostile
  locations and in dangerous situations.
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Key Personnel
  
  
   
  
  
  The Company is a service business. The quality of
  this service is directly related to the quality of the Company’s employees.
  Identifying, training and retaining key employees is essential to continued
  growth and future profitability. Continued loyalty to the Company will not be
  assured by contract.
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Technology
  
  
   
  
  
  Increasingly, the Company must compete based upon
  the flexibility and sophistication of the technologies utilized in performing
  its core businesses. Future results depend upon the Company’s success in the
  cost effective development and integration of communication and information
  systems technologies.
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Growth
  
  
   
  
  
  To date, the Company has relied primarily upon
  organic growth and has tended to avoid growth through acquisition. Future
  results will depend upon the Company’s ability to continue to grow internally
  or to demonstrate the ability to successfully identify and integrate
  non-dilutive acquisitions.
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Regulatory Environment
  
  
   
  
  
  As a publicly traded corporation, the Company is
  affected by regulations from a number of sources. The current business
  environment tends to stress the avoidance of risk through regulation and
  oversight, the effect of which is likely to be unforeseen costs and
  potentially unforeseen consequences.
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  In reaction to the global war on terror, governments
  around the world are continuously enacting or updating security regulations.
  The implementation of these regulations, including deadlines and substantive
  requirements, is driven by political urgencies rather than the industries’
  realistic ability to comply. Failure to timely comply may result in increased
  operating costs, restrictions on operations and/or fines and penalties.
  
  
   
  
 


 


 11 






 

ITEM 1B