Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    You should carefully consider each of the following risks and
    uncertainties associated with our company and the ownership of
    our securities. Additional risks not presently known to us or
    that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business
    operations.


 


    Global economic conditions may continue to have an adverse
    effect on our business and financial performance.


 


    Travel expenditures are sensitive to personal and business
    discretionary spending levels and tend to decline or grow more
    slowly during economic downturns, including downturns in any of
    our major markets. In the second half of 2008, there was a rapid
    softening of domestic and global economic conditions, and the
    outlook for 2009 is uncertain. This slowing of the domestic and
    global economies has increased unemployment and reduced the
    financial capacity of both corporate and leisure travelers,
    thereby slowing spending on the services we provide. The
    continuation, or worsening, of domestic and global economic
    conditions could continue to adversely affect our businesses and
    financial performance.


 


    Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could
    adversely affect our business or financial performance.


 


    Our business and financial performance are affected by the
    health of the worldwide travel industry, including by decreases
    in hotel occupancy rates, hotel average daily rates, decreases
    in airline capacity or rising airline ticket prices, all of
    which we have recently experienced. Events or weakness specific
    to the air travel industry that could negatively affect our
    business also include continued fare increases, travel-related
    strikes or labor unrest, bankruptcies or liquidations and fuel
    price volatility. Additionally, our business is sensitive to
    safety concerns, and thus our business has in the past and may
    in the future decline after incidents of actual or threatened
    terrorism, during periods of political instability or
    geopolitical conflict in which travelers become concerned about
    safety issues, as a result of natural disasters such as
    hurricanes or earthquakes or when travel might involve
    health-related risks, such as avian flu. Such concerns could
    result in a protracted decrease in demand for our travel
    services. This decrease in demand, depending on its scope and
    duration, together with any future issues affecting travel
    safety, could significantly and adversely affect our business
    and financial performance over the short and long-term. In
    addition, the disruption of the existing travel plans of a
    significant number of travelers upon the occurrence of certain
    events, such as actual or threatened terrorist activity or war,
    could result in the incurrence of significant additional costs
    and constrained liquidity if we provide relief to affected
    travelers by not charging cancellation fees
    and/or by
    refunding the price of airline tickets, hotel reservations and
    other travel products and services.


 


    We operate in an increasingly competitive global
    environment.


 


    The market for the services we offer is increasingly and
    intensely competitive. We compete with both established and
    emerging online and traditional sellers of travel services,
    including online travel agencies, travel suppliers, large online
    portal and search companies, traditional travel agencies, meta
    search companies and operators of travel industry reservation
    databases. Some of our competitors, particularly travel
    suppliers such as airlines and hotels, may offer products and
    services on more favorable terms, including lower prices, no
    fees or unique access to proprietary loyalty programs, such as
    points and miles. Many of these competitors, such as airlines,
    hotel and rental car companies, have been steadily focusing on
    increasing online demand on their own websites in lieu of
    third-party distributors such as the various Expedia sites. For
    instance, some low cost airlines, which are having increasing
    success in the marketplace, distribute their online supply
    exclusively through their own websites. Suppliers who sell on
    their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee,
    and, in some instances, offer advantages such as increased or
    exclusive product availability and their own bonus miles or
    loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive
    to consumers than offerings like ours. In addition, we face
    increasing competition from other travel agencies, which in some
    cases may have favorable offerings for both travelers and
    suppliers, including pricing, connectivity and supply breadth.
    We also compete with other travel agencies for both travelers
    and the acquisition and retention of supply. Increasing
    competition from current and emerging competitors, the
    introduction of new technologies and the expansion of existing
    technologies, such as metasearch and other search engine
    technologies, may force us to



    
    11



Table of Contents




    make changes to our business models, including changing our
    approaches to service fees. Increased competition has resulted
    in and may continue to result in reduced margins, as well as
    loss of travelers, transactions and brand recognition. We cannot
    assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against
    current, emerging and future competitors or provide
    differentiated products and services to our traveler base.


 


    Our business depends on our relationships with travel
    suppliers.


 


    An important component of our business success depends on our
    ability to maintain and expand relationships with travel
    suppliers and GDS partners. A substantial portion of our revenue
    is derived from compensation negotiated with travel suppliers
    and GDS partners for bookings made through our websites. Over
    the last several years, air and hotel travel suppliers have
    generally reduced or in some cases eliminated payments to travel
    agents and other travel intermediaries. In addition, as our
    hotel remuneration varies with the room rates paid by travelers
    (Average Daily Rates, or “ADRs”), meaning that our
    revenue for each room will generally be proportionately higher
    or lower depending on the level of the ADR. The recent
    significant decline in ADRs has accordingly negatively impacted
    our hotel booking revenue. To the extent ADRs decline even
    further, as we think is likely in 2009, our hotel booking
    revenue will be further negatively impacted. During the recent
    decline, we have experienced a drop in ADRs generally faster
    than the overall industry due to a number of factors including
    the increased use of our distribution channels for promotional
    activities by hotels. We expect this trend to continue until the
    hotel industry begins to rebound. Also, each year we typically
    negotiate or renegotiate numerous long-term airline and hotel
    contracts. No assurances can be given that GDS partners or
    travel suppliers will not further reduce or eliminate
    compensation, attempt to charge travel agencies for content or
    further reduce their ADRs, any of which could reduce our revenue
    and margins thereby adversely affecting our business and
    financial performance. Adverse changes in existing
    relationships, increasing industry consolidation or our
    inability to enter into new arrangements with these parties on
    favorable terms, if at all, could reduce the amount, quality and
    breadth of attractively priced travel products and services that
    we are able to offer, which could adversely affect our business
    and financial performance.


 


    We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of
    maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing.


 


    We believe continued investment in our brands, including
    Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire.com, Classic Vacations,
    Egencia, eLong, Venere, the TripAdvisor Media Network and
    Expedia Local Expert, is critical to retain and expand our
    traveler, supplier and advertiser bases. We have and expect to
    continue having to spend more to maintain our brands’ value
    due to a variety of factors. These include increased spending
    from our competitors, the increasing costs of supporting
    multiple brands, expansion into geographies and products where
    our brands are less well known, inflation in media pricing
    including search engine keywords and the continued emergence and
    relative traffic share growth of search engines and meta search
    engines as destination sites for travelers. We have spent
    considerable money and resources to date on the establishment
    and maintenance of our brands, and we will continue to spend
    money on, and devote resources to, advertising and marketing, as
    well as other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance
    consumer awareness of our brands. We may not be able to
    successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our
    brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts,
    such efforts may not be cost-effective, or as cost-effective as
    they have been historically. If we are unable to maintain or
    enhance consumer awareness of our brands and generate demand in
    a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Our business could be negatively affected by changes in
    search engine algorithms and dynamics.


 


    We increasingly utilize internet search engines such as Google,
    principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to
    generate traffic to our websites. Search engines, including
    Google, frequently update and change the logic that determines
    the placement and display of results of a user’s search,
    such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our
    websites can be negatively affected. In addition, a significant
    amount of our business is directed to our own websites through
    our participation in
    pay-per-click
    and display advertising campaigns on internet media properties
    and search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can
    experience rapid change, both technically and competitively. If
    a major search engine such as Google, which we utilize for a
    significant amount of our search engine traffic, changes its
    algorithms



    
    12



Table of Contents




    in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking,
    paid or unpaid, of our websites or that of our third-party
    distribution partners, or if competitive dynamics further impact
    market pricing in a negative manner, our business and financial
    performance would be adversely affected.


 


    We rely on information technology to operate our businesses
    and maintain our competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to
    technological developments or industry trends could harm our
    business.


 


    We depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies
    and systems, including technology and systems used for
    reservations, communications, procurement and administration. As
    our operations grow in both size and scope, we must continuously
    improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer an
    increasing number of travelers enhanced products, services,
    features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability
    and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future
    success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and
    infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and
    demands while continuing to improve the performance, features
    and reliability of our service in response to competitive
    service and product offerings.


 


    In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems
    or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly
    as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. We are currently
    in the process of migrating portions of our site functionality
    to new technology platforms to enable us to introduce innovation
    more rapidly, achieve better search engine optimization and
    improve our site merchandising capability, among other
    anticipated benefits. We have experienced some delays with this
    migration. Delays or difficulties in implementing new or
    enhanced systems may keep us from achieving the desired results
    in a timely manner, to the extent anticipated, or at all. Also,
    we may be unable to devote financial resources to new
    technologies and systems in the future. If any of these events
    occur, our business could suffer.


 


    We rely on third-parties for many systems and services.


 


    We rely on third-party service providers for certain customer
    care, fulfillment, processing, development, technology and other
    services. If these third-parties experience difficulty meeting
    our requirements or standards, it could damage our reputation or
    make it difficult for us to operate some aspects of our
    business. In addition, if such third-party service providers
    were to cease operations, temporarily or permanently, face
    financial distress or other business disruption, we could suffer
    increased costs and delays in our ability to provide similar
    services until an equivalent service provider could be found or
    we could develop replacement technology or operations. In
    addition, we rely increasingly on outsourced providers of
    traveler care and information technology services. If we are
    unsuccessful in choosing high quality partners or we
    ineffectively manage these partnerships it could have an adverse
    impact on our operations and financial results.


 


    We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and,
    if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire,
    retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be
    harmed.


 


    Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts
    of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our
    continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and
    retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our
    organization. In particular, the contributions of Barry Diller,
    our Chairman and Senior Executive, and Dara Khosrowshahi, our
    Chief Executive Officer, are critical to the overall management
    of the company. Our future success will depend on the
    performance of our senior management and key employees. Expedia
    cannot ensure that it will be able to retain the services of
    Mr. Diller, Mr. Khosrowshahi or any other member of
    our senior management or key employees, the loss of whom could
    seriously harm our business. Competition for well-qualified
    employees in certain aspects of our business, including software
    engineers and other technology professionals, also remains
    intense.


 


    Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our
    ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our
    existing employees. If we do not succeed in attracting
    well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating existing
    employees, our business would be adversely affected. We do not
    maintain any key person life insurance policies.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    We are in the process of restructuring our global workforce to
    simplify and streamline our organization, improve our cost
    structure and strengthen our overall businesses. These changes
    could affect employee morale and productivity and be disruptive
    to our business.


 


    Our stock price is highly volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and
    could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to
    factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our
    control:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Quarterly variations in our operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    Operating results that vary from the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in expectations as to our future financial performance,
    including financial estimates by securities analysts and
    investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Rating agency credit rating actions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Reaction to our earnings releases and conference calls, or
    presentations by executives at investor and industry conferences;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in our capital structure;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in market valuations of other internet or online service
    companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of technological innovations or new services by us
    or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts,
    acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital
    commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or
    hotel chain;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    Lack of success in the expansion of our business model
    geographically;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements by third parties of significant claims or
    proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending
    proceedings;




 



     
        • 

    
    Additions or departures of key personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    Rumors or public speculation about any of the above
    factors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Market and volume fluctuations in the stock markets in general.





 


    Volatility in our stock price could also make us less attractive
    to certain investors, and/or invite speculative trading in our
    common stock or debt instruments.


 


    Our international operations involve additional risks and our
    exposure to these risks will increase as we expand our
    international operations.


 


    We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the United
    States and intend to continue to expand our international
    presence. To achieve widespread acceptance in the countries and
    markets we enter, we must continue to tailor our services and
    business model to the unique circumstances of such countries and
    markets, including supplier relationships and traveler
    preferences. Learning the customs and cultures of various
    countries, particularly with respect to travel patterns and
    practices, can be difficult, costly and divert management and
    personnel resources. Our failure to adapt our practices and
    models effectively to the traveler and supplier preferences of
    each country into which we expand could slow our international
    growth.


 


    We expect to continue to face additional risks in international
    operations. These risks include political instability;
    threatened or actual acts of terrorism; changes in regulatory
    requirements; our ability to comply with additional
    U.S. laws applicable to U.S. companies operating
    internationally as well as local laws and regulations;
    diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights;
    increased risk and limits on our ability to enforce intellectual
    property rights; possible preferences by local populations for
    local providers; restrictions



    
    14



Table of Contents




    on the withdrawal of
    non-U.S. investment
    and earnings; currency exchange restrictions; slower adoption of
    the internet as an advertising, broadcast and commerce medium in
    those markets as compared to the United States and difficulties
    in managing staffing and operations due to distance, time zones,
    language and cultural differences.


 


    Changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties
    may adversely affect our business or financial performance.


 


    Our business and financial performance could be adversely
    affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of
    existing, or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations
    applicable to us and our businesses, including those relating to
    the internet and online commerce, consumer protection and
    privacy. Such unfavorable changes could decrease demand for
    products and services, increase costs
    and/or
    subject us to additional liabilities. For example, there is, and
    will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and
    regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce,
    which may relate to liability for information retrieved from or
    transmitted over the internet, user privacy, taxation and the
    quality of products and services. Furthermore, the growth and
    development of online commerce may prompt calls for more
    stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional
    burdens on online businesses generally.


 


    Adverse application of tax laws, rules or regulations could
    have an adverse effect on our businesses and financial
    performance.


 


    The application of various domestic and international sales,
    use, occupancy, value-added and other tax laws, rules and
    regulations to our historical and new products and services is
    subject to interpretation by the applicable taxing authorities.
    Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose
    these taxes were established before the growth of the internet
    and
    e-commerce.
    If the tax laws, rules and regulations were amended, if new
    adverse laws, rules or regulations were adopted, or if current
    laws are interpreted adversely to our interests, particularly
    with respect to occupancy or value-added taxes, the results
    could increase our tax payments (prospectively or
    retrospectively)
    and/or
    subject us to penalties and decrease the demand for our products
    and services if we pass on such costs to the consumer. As a
    result these changes could have an adverse affect on our
    businesses or financial performance. In addition, we may be
    required in certain jurisdictions to pay tax assessments, which
    may be substantial, prior to contesting the validity of such
    assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as
    “pay to play.” Payment of these amounts is not an
    admission that the tax payer believes it is subject to such
    taxes. We continue to work with relevant tax authorities and
    legislators to clarify our obligations under existing, new and
    emerging laws and regulations. There have been, and will
    continue to be, substantial ongoing costs, which may include
    “pay to play” payments, associated with complying
    with, and defending our position in, the various indirect tax
    requirements in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will
    conduct business.


 


    Provisions in certain credit card processing agreements could
    adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.


 


    We have agreements with companies that process customer credit
    card transactions for the facilitation of customer bookings of
    travel services from our travel suppliers. These agreements
    allow these processing companies, under certain conditions, to
    hold an amount of our cash (referred to as a
    “holdback”) or require us to post a letter of credit
    equal to a portion of bookings that have been processed by that
    company. These processing companies may be entitled to a
    holdback upon the occurrence of specified events, including
    material adverse changes in our financial condition, or for
    certain companies, at their discretion. An imposition of a
    holdback by one or more of our processing companies could
    materially reduce our liquidity.


 


    In addition, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent
    credit cards on our websites for transactions where we are
    merchant of record as well as other payment disputes with our
    customers. Additionally, we are held liable for accepting
    fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we
    do not act as merchant of record. Accordingly, we calculate and
    record an allowance for the resulting credit card charge backs.
    If we are unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on
    our websites, our results of operations and financial condition
    could be materially adversely affected.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    System interruption and the lack of redundancy in our
    information systems may harm our businesses.


 


    We rely on computer systems to facilitate and process
    transactions. We have experienced and may in the future
    experience system interruptions that make some or all of these
    systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling
    orders or providing services to third-parties. Any
    interruptions, outages or delays in our systems, or
    deterioration in their performance, could impair our ability to
    process transactions and decrease our quality of service that we
    can offer to our travelers. If we were to experience frequent or
    persistent system failures, our reputation and brands could be
    harmed.


 


    In addition, we do not have backup systems or contingency plans
    for certain critical aspects of our operations or business
    processes, many other systems are not fully redundant and our
    disaster recovery or business continuity planning may not be
    sufficient. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure,
    break-ins, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God,
    computer viruses, physical break-ins, electronic intrusion
    attempts from both external and internal sources and similar
    events or disruptions may damage or impact or interrupt computer
    or communications systems or business processes at any time.
    Although we have put measures in place to protect certain
    portions of our facilities and assets, any of these events could
    cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and
    could prevent us from providing services to our travelers
    and/or third
    parties for a significant period of time. Remediation may be
    costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such
    costs. Moreover, the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain
    improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and
    expensive and may require resources and expertise that are
    difficult to obtain.


 


    Intense competition for advertising revenue may adversely
    affect our ability to achieve or maintain market share and
    operate profitably.


 


    Expedia, Inc. websites, including in particular the TripAdvisor
    Media Network, compete for advertising dollars with large
    internet portal sites, such as American Online, MSN and Yahoo!,
    that offer listing or other advertising opportunities for
    travel-related companies. These companies have significantly
    greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and
    large client bases. We also compete with search engines like
    Google and Yahoo! Search that offer
    pay-per-click
    advertising services. In addition, we compete with newspapers,
    magazines and other traditional media companies that provide
    offline and online advertising opportunities. We expect to face
    additional competition as other established and emerging
    companies, including print media companies, enter the online
    advertising market. Competition could results in reduced margins
    on our advertising services, loss of market share or less use of
    our sites by travel companies and travelers. If we are not able
    to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a
    result of these and other factors, our business could be
    materially adversely affected. In addition, the TripAdvisor
    Media Network is increasingly reliant on natural and paid search
    traffic from major search engines, whose per unit costs have
    been increasing.


 


    Mr. Diller currently controls Expedia. If
    Mr. Diller ceases to control the company, Liberty Media
    Corporation may effectively control the company.


 


    Subject to the terms of a Stockholders Agreement between
    Mr. Diller and Liberty Media Corporation, Mr. Diller
    holds an irrevocable proxy to vote shares of Expedia stock held
    by Liberty. Accordingly, Mr. Diller effectively controls
    the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the
    consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the
    election by the holders of common stock of 25% of the members of
    the Board of Directors and matters as to which Delaware law
    requires a separate class vote). Upon Mr. Diller’s
    permanent departure from Expedia, the irrevocable proxy would
    terminate and depending on the capitalization of Expedia at such
    time, Liberty could effectively control the voting power of our
    capital stock. Mr. Diller, through shares he owns
    beneficially as well as those subject to the irrevocable proxy,
    controlled approximately 60% of the combined voting power of the
    outstanding Expedia capital stock as of December 31, 2008.


 


    In addition, under a Governance Agreement among Mr. Diller,
    Liberty Media Corporation and Expedia, Inc., as amended, each of
    Mr. Diller and Liberty generally has the right to consent
    to limited matters in the event that we incur debt such that our
    ratio of total debt to EBITDA, as defined in the Governance
    Agreement,



    
    16



Table of Contents




    equals or exceeds 8:1 over a continuous
    12-month
    period. We cannot assure you that Mr. Diller and Liberty
    will consent to any such matter at a time when we are highly
    leveraged, in which case we would not be able to engage in such
    transactions or take such actions.


 


    As a result of Mr. Diller’s ownership interests and
    voting power, and Liberty’s ownership interests and voting
    power upon Mr. Diller’s permanent departure from us,
    Mr. Diller is currently, and in the future Liberty may be,
    in a position to control or influence significant corporate
    actions, including, corporate transactions such as mergers,
    business combinations or dispositions of assets and
    determinations with respect to our significant business
    direction and policies. This concentrated control could
    discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover
    or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be
    beneficial to us.


 


    Actual or potential conflicts of interest may develop between
    Expedia management and directors, on the one hand, and the
    management and directors of IAC, on the other.


 


    Mr. Diller serves as our Chairman of the Board of Directors
    and Senior Executive, while retaining his role as Chairman and
    Chief Executive Officer of IAC, and Mr. Kaufman serves as
    Vice Chairman of both Expedia and IAC. The fact that
    Messrs. Diller and Kaufman hold positions with both
    companies and own both IAC and Expedia stock could create, or
    appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for each of
    Messrs. Diller and Kaufman when facing decisions that may
    affect both IAC and Expedia. Both Messrs. Diller and
    Kaufman may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the
    allocation of their time between IAC and Expedia.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation provides that no officer or
    director of Expedia who is also an officer or director of IAC
    will be liable to Expedia or its stockholders for breach of any
    fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual
    directs a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of Expedia, or
    does not communicate information regarding a corporate
    opportunity to Expedia because the officer or director has
    directed the corporate opportunity to IAC. This corporate
    opportunity provision may have the effect of exacerbating the
    risk of conflicts of interest between IAC and Expedia because
    the provision effectively shields an overlapping
    director/executive officer from liability for breach of
    fiduciary duty in the event that such director or officer
    chooses to direct a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of
    Expedia.


 


    We may be unable to access capital when necessary or
    desirable.


 


    The availability of funds depends in significant measure on
    capital markets and liquidity factors over which we exert no
    control. Particularly in light of existing uncertainty in the
    capital and credit markets, we can provide no assurance that
    sufficient financing will be available on desirable or even any
    terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases or
    extraordinary actions or that our counterparties in any such
    financings would honor their contractual commitments. In
    addition, any downgrade of our debt ratings by
    Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investor Service
    or similar ratings agencies, increases in general interest rate
    levels or the recent general weakening in the credit markets
    could increase our cost of capital. Recently credit spreads for
    below investment grade issuers such as Expedia have increased
    significantly compared with historical levels, impacting returns
    for bondholders and increasing the cost of potential incremental
    debt issuance.


 


    In addition, we have experienced, and may experience declines in
    seasonal liquidity and capital provided by our merchant hotel
    business, which has historically provided a meaningful portion
    of our operating cash flow. The extent of such impact is
    dependent on several factors, including the rate of growth of
    our merchant hotel business, payment terms with suppliers and
    relative growth of businesses which consume rather than generate
    working capital, such as our agency hotel, advertising and
    managed corporate travel businesses.


 


    Our revolving credit facility expires in August 2010, and any
    borrowings thereunder will be classified as current during the
    third quarter of 2009. Given the current uncertainty in the
    credit markets, there is no guarantee we will be able to renew
    our credit facility, or renew it at current commitment levels or
    otherwise on terms acceptable to us. In addition, a recent
    amendment to the facility has increased the cost of borrowing
    under the facility.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    We have significant long-term indebtedness, which could
    adversely affect our business and financial condition.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, the face value of our long-term
    indebtedness totaled $1.54 billion. Risks relating to our
    long-term indebtedness include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from
    operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the
    availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital
    expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general
    corporate purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    Making it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage
    the cash flow for our businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have less debt; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow
    funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable.





 


    In addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional
    indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business.
    The terms of our credit facility and the indentures governing
    our outstanding senior notes allow us to incur additional debt
    subject to certain limitations. If new debt is added to current
    debt levels, the risks described above could intensify.


 


    The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various
    covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our
    business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests
    and other covenants. The failure to comply with such tests and
    covenants could have a material adverse effect on us.


 


    The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various
    covenants, including those that restrict our ability to, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Borrow money, and guarantee or provide other support for
    indebtedness of third parties including guarantees;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    Make investments in entities that we do not control, including
    joint ventures;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into certain asset sale transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into secured financing arrangements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into unrelated businesses.





 


    These covenants may limit our ability to effectively operate our
    businesses.


 


    In addition, our credit facility requires that we meet certain
    financial tests, including an interest coverage test and a
    leverage ratio test. We recently entered into an amendment to
    our credit facility that tightened a number of the restrictions
    listed above.


 


    Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit
    facility or any agreement governing our other indebtedness may
    result in an event of default under those agreements. Such
    default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt,
    which acceleration may trigger cross-acceleration or
    cross-default provisions in other debt. In addition, lenders may
    be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us
    with further funds (including periodic rollovers of existing
    borrowings).



    
    18



Table of Contents




    We have foreign exchange risk.


 


    We conduct a significant and growing portion of our business
    outside the United States. As a result, we face exposure to
    movements in currency exchange rates, particularly those related
    to the British pound sterling, the euro, Canadian dollar,
    Australian dollar and Chinese renminbi.


 


    These exposures include but are not limited to re-measurement
    gains and losses from changes in the value of foreign
    denominated assets and liabilities; translation gains and losses
    on foreign subsidiary financial results that are translated into
    U.S. dollars upon consolidation; fluctuations in merchant
    hotel revenue due to relative currency movements from the time
    of booking to the time of stay; planning risk related to changes
    in exchange rates between the time we prepare our annual and
    quarterly forecasts and when actual results occur; and the
    impact of relative exchange rate movements on cross-border
    travel, principally Europe to the United States and the
    United States to Europe travel.


 


    Depending on the size of the exposures and the relative
    movements of exchange rates, if we choose not to hedge or fail
    to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a
    material adverse effect on our financial statements and
    financial condition. In addition, given the recent severe
    volatility in exchange rates these exposures have increased, and
    the impact on our results of operations has become more
    pronounced. In addition, the current environment, and the
    increasingly global nature of our business has made hedging
    these exposures both more complex and costly. We have increased
    and plan to continue increasing the scope and complexity of our
    foreign exchange risk management, including the use of forward
    contracts to hedge a portion of our exposures. We make a number
    of estimates in conducting hedging activities including in some
    cases the level of future bookings, cancellations, refunds and
    payments in foreign currencies. In the event those estimates
    differ significantly from actual results, we could experience
    greater volatility as a result of our hedging activities.


 


    We are exposed to various counterparty risks.


 


    We are exposed to the risk of failure to perform by various
    financial counterparties, including for our insurance coverages,
    investments, bank deposits, letters of credit and foreign
    exchange risk management. As it relates to foreign exchange, we
    employ forward contracts to hedge a portion of our exposure to
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. As of
    December 31, 2008, we were party to forward contracts with
    a notional value of $165 million and the fair value of
    which was a $1 million liability. The counterparties to
    these contracts were Goldman Sachs, Banc of America, HSBC and
    Fifth Third Bank. Upon the maturity of these or subsequent
    contracts, the counterparties are potentially obligated to pay
    us net settlement values. If any of these counterparties were to
    liquidate, declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations, it
    may not be able to satisfy its obligations under these forward
    contracts. In addition, due to the weakening economy we also
    face increased credit risk and payment delays from our
    non-financial contract counterparties.


 


    Our investment in eLong creates risks and uncertainties
    relating to the laws in China.


 


    The success of our investment in eLong, Inc., a company
    organized under Cayman Islands law, whose principal business is
    the operation of an internet-based travel business in China, is
    subject to risks and uncertainties regarding the interpretation
    of China’s laws and regulations. Significant uncertainties
    exist in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and
    regulations, and such uncertainties could limit the available
    legal protections relating to our investment in eLong. Moreover,
    we cannot predict the effect of future developments in
    China’s legal system, particularly with respect to the
    travel industry, the internet, foreign investment or licensing,
    including the introduction of new laws, changes to existing laws
    or the interpretation or enforcement of current or future laws
    and regulations. In addition, the laws and regulations of China
    restrict certain direct foreign investment in the air-ticketing,
    travel agency and internet content provision businesses.
    Although we have established effective control through a series
    of agreements between eLong, Inc. and its affiliated Chinese
    entities, future developments in the interpretation or
    enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations or a dispute
    relating to the agreements could restrict our ability to operate
    or restructure these entities or to engage in desirable
    strategic transactions. Finally, China does not have treaties
    with the United States or most other western countries
    providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of



    
    19



Table of Contents




    judgment of courts. As a result, court judgments obtained in
    jurisdictions with which China does not have treaties on
    reciprocal recognition of judgment may be difficult or
    impossible to enforce in China.


 


    Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data
    could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental
    regulation, conflicting legal requirements, differing views of
    personal privacy rights, or data security breaches.


 


    In the processing of our traveler transactions, we receive and
    store a large volume of personally identifiable information.
    This information is increasingly subject to legislation and
    regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This
    government action is typically intended to protect the privacy
    and security of personal information that is collected,
    processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.
    We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are
    expanded to require changes in our business practices or if
    governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation
    or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations. As privacy and
    data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also
    become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing
    views on the privacy of travel
    and/or
    online data.


 


    We cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent data
    breaches. In addition, certain of our acquired companies may not
    have the same standards related to data collection, storage and
    transfer that Expedia has historically maintained. Failure to
    improve their standard or a substantial data breach in any of
    our businesses could significantly harm our business, damage our
    reputation, expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and
    possible liability
    and/or cause
    customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our
    security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our
    brands.


 


    These and other privacy and security developments that are
    difficult to anticipate could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Acquisitions could result in operating and financial
    difficulties.


 


    Our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. To the
    extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face the
    operational and financial risks that commonly accompany that
    strategy. We would also face operational risks, such as failing
    to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired
    businesses, disrupting their ongoing businesses, increased
    complexity of our business, impairing management resources and
    their relationships with employees and travelers as a result of
    changes in their ownership and management. Further, the
    evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as
    the integration of an acquired business, may divert management
    time and other resources. Some acquisitions may not be
    successful and their performance may result in the impairment of
    their carrying value.


 


    Certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions
    that may have a material impact on our business are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent
    liabilities in funding acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and
    other adverse accounting consequences;




 



     
        • 

    
    Costs incurred in identifying and performing due diligence on
    potential acquisition targets that may or may not be successful;




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations,
    products, technology, privacy protection systems, information
    systems or personnel of the acquired company;




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and
    affiliates of our business and the acquired business;




 



     
        • 

    
    The assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the
    acquired company;




 



     
        • 

    
    Failure to generate adequate returns on our acquisitions and
    investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior
    experience; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets arising from
    our acquisitions.






    
    20



Table of Contents



 


    We cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected
    from copying or use by others, including potential
    competitors.


 


    Our websites rely on content and technology intellectual
    property, much of which we regard as proprietary. We protect our
    proprietary technology by relying on trademarks, copyrights,
    trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements. In connection
    with our license agreements with third-parties, we seek to
    control access to and distribution of our technology,
    documentation and other proprietary information. Even with all
    of these precautions, it is possible for someone else to copy or
    otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or content
    without our authorization or to develop similar technology
    independently. Effective trademark, copyright and trade secret
    protection may not be available in every country in which our
    services are made available through the internet, and policing
    unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult and
    expensive. We cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will
    prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. This
    misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. In the future, we may need to go to court to enforce
    our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets
    or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights
    of others. This litigation might result in substantial costs and
    diversion of resources and management attention.


 


    We currently license from third-parties some of the technologies
    incorporated into our websites. As we continue to introduce new
    services that incorporate new technologies, we may be required
    to license additional technology. We cannot be sure that such
    technology licenses will be available on commercially reasonable
    terms, if at all.


 




    
    



    
    Part I. Item 1B