Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    You should carefully consider each of the following risks and
    uncertainties associated with our company and the ownership of
    our securities. Additional risks not presently known to us or
    that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business
    operations.


 


    We operate in an increasingly competitive global
    environment.


 


    The market for the services we offer is increasingly and
    intensely competitive. We compete with both established and
    emerging online and traditional sellers of travel services with
    respect to each of the services we offer. Some of our
    competitors, particularly travel suppliers such as airlines and
    hotels, may offer products and services on more favorable terms,
    including lower prices, no fees or unique access to proprietary
    loyalty programs, such as points and miles. Many of these
    competitors, such as airlines, hotel and rental car companies,
    have been steadily focusing on increasing online demand on their
    own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as
    Expedia. For instance, some low cost airlines, which are having
    increasing success in the marketplace, distribute their online
    inventory exclusively through their own websites. Suppliers who
    sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing
    fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as increased
    or exclusive product availability and their own bonus miles or
    loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive
    to consumers than offerings like ours. In addition, we face
    increasing competition from other travel agencies, which in some
    cases may have favorable offerings for both travelers and
    suppliers, including pricing, connectivity and supply breadth.
    We also compete with other travel agencies for both travelers
    and the acquisition and retention of supply. The introduction of
    new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies,
    such as metasearch and other search engine technologies, may
    increase competitive pressures or lead to changes in our
    business model. Increased competition has resulted in and may
    continue to result in reduced margins, as well as loss of
    travelers, transactions and brand recognition. We cannot assure
    you that we will be able to compete successfully against
    current, emerging and future competitors or provide
    differentiated products and services to our traveler base.


 


    Our business depends on our relationships with travel
    suppliers.


 


    An important component of our business success depends on our
    ability to maintain and expand relationships with travel
    suppliers and GDS partners. Adverse changes in existing
    relationships, or our inability to enter into new arrangements
    with these parties on favorable terms, if at all, could reduce
    the amount, quality and breadth of attractively priced travel
    products and services that we are able to offer, which could
    adversely affect our business and financial performance.


 


    Travel suppliers are increasingly seeking to lower their travel
    distribution costs by promoting direct online bookings through
    their own websites. In some cases, supplier direct channels
    offer advantages to consumers, such as “best rate
    guarantees,” loyalty programs
    and/or lower
    transaction fees. In addition, travel suppliers may choose not
    to make their travel products and services available through our
    distribution channels. To the



    
    11



Table of Contents




    extent that consumers continue to increase the percentage of
    their travel purchases through supplier direct websites
    and/or if
    travel suppliers choose not to make their products and services
    available to us, our business may suffer.


 


    Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could
    adversely affect our business or financial performance.


 


    Our business and financial performance are affected by the
    health of the worldwide travel industry. Accordingly, if there
    is a downturn or weakness in the travel industry it could have a
    material adverse effect on our business. Travel expenditures are
    sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels
    and tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic
    downturns, including downturns in any of our major markets.
    Events or weakness specific to the air travel industry that
    could negatively affect our business include continued fare
    increases, travel-related strikes or labor unrest,
    consolidations, bankruptcies or liquidations and further fuel
    price escalation. Additionally, our business is sensitive to
    safety concerns, and thus our business has in the past and may
    in the future decline after incidents of actual or threatened
    terrorism, during periods of political instability or
    geopolitical conflict in which travelers become concerned about
    safety issues, as a result of natural disasters such as
    hurricanes or earthquakes or when travel might involve
    health-related risks, such as avian flu. Such concerns could
    result in a protracted decrease in demand for our travel
    services. This decrease in demand, depending on its scope and
    duration, together with any future issues affecting travel
    safety, could significantly and adversely affect our business
    and financial performance over the short and long-term. In
    addition, the disruption of the existing travel plans of a
    significant number of travelers upon the occurrence of certain
    events, such as actual or threatened terrorist activity or war,
    could result in the incurrence of significant additional costs
    and constrained liquidity if we provide relief to affected
    travelers by not charging cancellation fees
    and/or by
    refunding the price of airline tickets, hotel reservations and
    other travel products and services.


 


    We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of
    maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing.


 


    We believe continued investment in our brands, including
    Expedia.com, Hotels.com, Hotwire.com, Classic Vacation, Expedia
    Corporate Travel, eLong, the TripAdvisor Media Network and
    Expedia Local Expert, is critical to retain and expand our
    traveler, supplier and advertiser bases. We have and expect to
    continue having to spend more to maintain our brands’ value
    due to a variety of factors. These include increased spending
    from our competitors, expansion into geographies and products
    where our brands are less well known, inflation in media pricing
    including search engine keywords and the continued emergence and
    relative traffic share growth of search engines and meta search
    engines as destination sites for travelers. We have spent
    considerable money and resources to date on the establishment
    and maintenance of our brands, and we will continue to spend
    money on, and devote resources to, advertising and marketing, as
    well as other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance
    consumer awareness of our brands. We may not be able to
    successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our
    brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts,
    such efforts may not be cost-effective, or as cost-effective as
    they have been historically. If we are unable to maintain or
    enhance consumer awareness of our brands and generate demand in
    a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Our business could be negatively affected by changes in
    search engine algorithms and dynamics.


 


    We increasingly utilize internet search engines, principally
    through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate
    traffic to our websites. Search engines frequently update and
    change the logic that determines the placement and display of
    results of a user’s search, such that the purchased or
    algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively
    affected. In addition, a significant amount of our business is
    directed to our own websites through our participation in
    pay-per-click
    and display advertising campaigns on internet media properties
    and search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can
    experience rapid change, both technically and competitively. If
    a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that
    negatively affects the search engine ranking, paid or unpaid, of
    our websites or that of our third-party distribution partners,
    or if competitive dynamics further impact market pricing in a
    negative manner, our business and financial performance would be
    adversely affected.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    We rely on information technology to operate our businesses
    and maintain our competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to
    technological developments or industry trends could harm our
    business.


 


    We depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies
    and systems, including technology and systems used for
    reservations, communications, procurement and administration. As
    our operations grow in both size and scope, we must continuously
    improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer an
    increasing number of travelers enhanced products, services,
    features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability
    and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future
    success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and
    infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and
    demands while continuing to improve the performance, features
    and reliability of our service in response to competitive
    service and product offerings.


 


    In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems
    or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly
    as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. We are currently
    in the process of migrating portions of our site functionality
    to a new technology platform to enable us to introduce
    innovation more rapidly, achieve better search engine
    optimization and improve our site merchandising capability,
    among other anticipated benefits. We have experienced some
    delays with this migration. Delays or difficulties in
    implementing new or enhanced systems may keep us from achieving
    the desired results in a timely manner, to the extent
    anticipated, or at all. Also, we may be unable to devote
    financial resources to new technologies and systems in the
    future. If any of these events occur, our business could suffer.


 


    We rely on third-parties for many systems and services.


 


    We rely on third-party service providers for certain
    fulfillment, processing, development, technology and other
    services. If these third-parties experience difficulty meeting
    our requirements or standards, it could damage our reputation or
    make it difficult for us to provide certain services to our
    travelers and operate some aspects of our business. In addition,
    if such third-party service providers were to cease operations,
    temporarily or permanently, face financial distress or we were
    unable to successfully negotiate future contracts with such
    providers, we could suffer increased costs and delays in our
    ability to provide similar services until an equivalent service
    provider could be found or we could develop our technology or
    operations. In addition, we rely increasingly on outsourced
    providers of traveler care and information technology services.
    If we are unsuccessful in choosing high quality partners or we
    ineffectively manage these partnerships it could have an adverse
    impact on our operations and financial results.


 


    Over the last several years, we have experienced downward
    pressure on remuneration from our suppliers.


 


    A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from
    compensation negotiated with travel suppliers and GDS partners
    for bookings made through our websites. Over the last several
    years, air and hotel travel suppliers have generally reduced or
    in some cases eliminated payments to travel agents and other
    travel intermediaries. In addition, as our hotel remuneration
    varies with the room rates paid by travelers (Average Daily
    Rates, or “ADRs”), to the extent ADRs grow more slowly
    than anticipated or decline, our revenue for each room sold will
    generally be proportionately lower. Each year we typically
    negotiate or renegotiate numerous long-term airline and hotel
    contracts. No assurances can be given that GDS partners or
    travel suppliers will not further reduce of eliminate
    compensation, or attempt to charge travel agencies for content,
    any of which could reduce our revenue and margins thereby
    adversely affecting our business and financial performance.


 


    We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and,
    if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire,
    retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be
    harmed.


 


    Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts
    of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our
    continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and
    retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our
    organization. In particular, the contributions of Barry Diller,
    our Chairman and Senior Executive, and Dara Khosrowshahi, our
    Chief Executive Officer, are critical to the overall management
    of the company.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    In addition, we have experienced a high rate of executive
    turnover since 2005. Our future success will depend on the
    performance of our senior management and key employees, many of
    whom joined Expedia recently. Expedia cannot ensure that it will
    be able to retain the services of Mr. Diller,
    Mr. Khosrowshahi or any other member of our senior
    management or key employees, the loss of whom could seriously
    harm our business. In addition, competition for well-qualified
    employees in all aspects of our business, including software
    engineers and other technology professionals, is intense. Our
    continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability
    to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing
    employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified
    employees or retaining or motivating existing employees, our
    business would be adversely affected. We do not maintain any key
    person life insurance policies.


 


    Our stock price is highly volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and
    could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to
    factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our
    control:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Quarterly variations in our operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    Operating results that vary from the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in expectations as to our future financial performance,
    including financial estimates by securities analysts and
    investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Reaction to our earnings releases and conference calls, or
    presentations by executives at investor and industry conferences;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in our capital structure;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in market valuations of other internet or online service
    companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of technological innovations or new services by us
    or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts,
    acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital
    commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or
    hotel chain;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    Lack of success in the expansion of our business model
    geographically;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements by third parties of significant claims or
    proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending
    proceedings;




 



     
        • 

    
    Additions or departures of key personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    Rumors or public speculation about any of the above
    factors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Market and volume fluctuations in the stock markets in general.





 


    Our international operations involve additional risks and our
    exposure to these risks will increase as we expand our
    international operations.


 


    We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the United
    States and intend to continue to expand our international
    presence. In order to achieve widespread acceptance in the
    countries and markets we enter, we must continue to tailor our
    services and business model to the unique circumstances of such
    countries and markets, including supplier relationships and
    traveler preferences. Learning the customs and cultures of
    various countries, particularly with respect to travel patterns
    and practices, can be difficult, costly and divert management
    and personnel resources. Our failure to adapt our practices and
    models effectively to the traveler and supplier preferences of
    each country into which we expand could slow our international
    growth.


 


    We expect to continue to face additional risks in international
    operations. These risks include political instability;
    threatened or actual acts of terrorism; changes in regulatory
    requirements;, our ability to comply with additional
    U.S. laws applicable to U.S. companies operating
    internationally as well as local laws and



    
    14



Table of Contents




    regulations; diminished ability to legally enforce our
    contractual rights; increased risk and limits on our ability to
    enforce intellectual property rights; possible preferences by
    local populations for local providers; restrictions on the
    withdrawal of
    non-U.S. investment
    and earnings; currency exchange restrictions; slower adoption of
    the internet as an advertising, broadcast and commerce medium in
    those markets as compared to the United States and difficulties
    in managing staffing and operations due to distance, time zones,
    language and cultural differences.


 


    Changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties
    may adversely affect our business or financial performance.


 


    Our business and financial performance could be adversely
    affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of
    existing, or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations
    applicable to us and our businesses, including those relating to
    the internet and online commerce, consumer protection and
    privacy. Such unfavorable changes could decrease demand for
    products and services, increase costs
    and/or
    subject us to additional liabilities. For example, there is, and
    will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and
    regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce,
    which may relate to liability for information retrieved from or
    transmitted over the internet, user privacy, taxation and the
    quality of products and services. Furthermore, the growth and
    development of online commerce may prompt calls for more
    stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional
    burdens on online businesses generally.


 


    Adverse application of tax laws, rules or regulations could
    have an adverse effect on our businesses and financial
    performance.


 


    The application of various domestic and international sales,
    use, occupancy, value-added and other tax laws, rules and
    regulations to our historical and new products and services is
    subject to interpretation by the applicable taxing authorities.
    Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose
    these taxes were established before the growth of the internet
    and
    e-commerce.
    If the tax laws, rules and regulations were amended, if new
    adverse laws, rules or regulations were adopted, or if current
    laws are interpreted adversely to our interests, particularly
    with respect to occupancy or value-added taxes, the results
    could increase our tax payments (prospectively or
    retrospectively)
    and/or
    subject us to penalties and decrease the demand for our products
    and services if we pass on such costs to the consumer. As a
    result these changes could have an adverse affect on our
    businesses or financial performance. We continue to work with
    relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify our
    obligations under existing, new and emerging laws and
    regulations. There have been, and will continue to be,
    substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with, and
    defending our position in, the various indirect tax requirements
    in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will conduct
    business.


 


    System interruption and the lack of redundancy in our
    information systems may harm our businesses.


 


    We rely on computer systems to facilitate and process
    transactions. We have experienced and may in the future
    experience system interruptions that make some or all of these
    systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling
    orders or providing services to third-parties. Any
    interruptions, outages or delays in our systems, or
    deterioration in their performance, could impair our ability to
    process transactions and decrease our quality of service that we
    can offer to our travelers. If we were to experience frequent or
    persistent system failures, our reputation and brands could be
    harmed.


 


    In addition, we do not have backup systems or contingency plans
    for certain critical aspects of our operations or business
    processes, many other systems are not fully redundant and our
    disaster recovery or business continuity planning may not be
    sufficient. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure,
    break-ins, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God,
    computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar
    events or disruptions may damage or impact or interrupt computer
    or communications systems or business processes at any time.
    Although we have put measures in place to protect certain
    portions of our facilities and assets, any of these events could
    cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and
    could prevent us from providing services to our travelers
    and/or third
    parties for a significant period of time. Remediation may be
    costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such
    costs. Moreover, the costs



    
    15



Table of Contents




    of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved stability and
    redundancy may be time consuming and expensive and may require
    resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain.


 


    Intense competition for advertising revenue may adversely
    affect our ability to achieve or maintain market share and
    operate profitably.


 


    Expedia, Inc. websites, including in particular the TripAdvisor
    Media Network, compete for advertising dollars with large
    internet portal sites, such as American Online, MSN and Yahoo!,
    that offer listing or other advertising opportunities for
    travel-related companies. These companies have significantly
    greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and
    large client bases. We also compete with search engines like
    Google and Yahoo! Search that offer
    pay-per-click
    advertising services. In addition, we compete with newspapers,
    magazines and other traditional media companies that provide
    offline and online advertising opportunities. We expect to face
    additional competition as other established and emerging
    companies, including print media companies, enter the online
    advertising market. Competition could results in reduced margins
    on our advertising services, loss of market share or less use of
    our sites by travel companies and travelers. If we are not able
    to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a
    result of these and other factors, our business could be
    materially adversely affected. In addition, the TripAdvisor
    Media Network is increasingly reliant on natural and paid search
    traffic from major search engines, whose per unit costs have
    been increasing.


 


    Mr. Diller currently controls Expedia.  If
    Mr. Diller ceases to control the company, Liberty Media
    Corporation may effectively control the company.


 


    Subject to the terms of a Stockholders Agreement between
    Mr. Diller and Liberty Media Corporation, Mr. Diller
    holds an irrevocable proxy to vote shares of Expedia stock held
    by Liberty. Accordingly, Mr. Diller effectively controls
    the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the
    consent of our stockholders (other than with respect to the
    election by the holders of common stock of 25% of the members of
    the Board of Directors and matters as to which Delaware law
    requires a separate class vote). Upon Mr. Diller’s
    permanent departure from Expedia, the irrevocable proxy would
    terminate and depending on the capitalization of Expedia at such
    time, Liberty could effectively control the voting power of our
    capital stock. Mr. Diller, through shares he owns
    beneficially as well as those subject to the irrevocable proxy,
    controlled approximately 60% of the combined voting power of the
    outstanding Expedia capital stock as of December 31, 2007.


 


    In addition, under a Governance Agreement among Mr. Diller,
    Liberty Media Corporation and Expedia, Inc., as amended, each of
    Mr. Diller and Liberty generally has the right to consent
    to limited matters in the event that we incur debt such that our
    ratio of total debt to EBITDA, as defined in the Governance
    Agreement, equals or exceeds 8:1 over a continuous
    12-month
    period. We cannot assure you that Mr. Diller and Liberty
    will consent to any such matter at a time when we are highly
    leveraged, in which case we would not be able to engage in such
    transactions or take such actions.


 


    As a result of Mr. Diller’s ownership interests and
    voting power, and Liberty’s ownership interests and voting
    power upon Mr. Diller’s permanent departure from us,
    Mr. Diller is currently, and in the future Liberty may be,
    in a position to control or influence significant corporate
    actions, including, corporate transactions such as mergers,
    business combinations or dispositions of assets and
    determinations with respect to our significant business
    direction and policies. This concentrated control could
    discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover
    or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be
    beneficial to us.


 


    Actual or potential conflicts of interest may develop between
    Expedia management and directors, on the one hand, and the
    management and directors of IAC, on the other.


 


    Mr. Diller serves as our Chairman of the Board of Directors
    and Senior Executive, while retaining his role as Chairman and
    Chief Executive Officer of IAC, and Mr. Kaufman serves as
    Vice Chairman of both Expedia and IAC. The fact that
    Messrs. Diller and Kaufman hold positions with both
    companies and own both IAC and Expedia stock could create, or
    appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for each of
    Messrs. Diller and Kaufman when facing decisions that may
    affect both IAC and Expedia. Both Messrs. Diller and
    Kaufman may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the
    allocation of their time between IAC and Expedia.



    
    16



Table of Contents




    Our certificate of incorporation provides that no officer or
    director of Expedia who is also an officer or director of IAC
    will be liable to Expedia or its stockholders for breach of any
    fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual
    directs a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of Expedia, or
    does not communicate information regarding a corporate
    opportunity to Expedia because the officer or director has
    directed the corporate opportunity to IAC. This corporate
    opportunity provision may have the effect of exacerbating the
    risk of conflicts of interest between IAC and Expedia because
    the provision effectively shields an overlapping
    director/executive officer from liability for breach of
    fiduciary duty in the event that such director or officer
    chooses to direct a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of
    Expedia.


 


    We may be unable to access capital when necessary or
    desirable.


 


    The availability of funds depends in large measure on capital
    markets and liquidity factors over which we exert no control. We
    can provide no assurance that sufficient financing will be
    available on desirable terms to fund investments, acquisitions,
    stock repurchases or extraordinary actions. In addition, any
    downgrade of our debt ratings by Standard &
    Poor’s, Moody’s Investor Service or similar ratings
    agencies, increases in general interest rate levels or general
    weakening in the credit markets could increase our cost of
    capital.


 


    We have foreign exchange risk.


 


    As a result of our international websites and acquisitions, we
    conduct a significant and growing portion of our business
    outside the United States. Further, due to the nature of our
    operations and our corporate structure, we have subsidiaries
    that have significant transactions in foreign currencies other
    than their functional currency. As a result, we face exposure to
    movements in currency exchange rates, particularly those related
    to the British Pound Sterling, the Euro, Canadian dollar and
    Chinese Renminbi. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may
    adversely impact our results of operations as exchange rate
    fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other
    than the functional currency results in gains and losses that
    are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations.
    Additionally, the results of operations of our foreign
    subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations
    as the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries are
    translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon
    consolidation. The economic impact to us of foreign currency
    exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth,
    inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other
    factors. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against the local
    currency of profitable, cash generating foreign operations and
    we choose not to hedge or fail to hedge effectively our
    exposure, it could cause us to adjust our financing and
    operating strategies and could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial statements and financial condition.


 


    Our investment in eLong creates risks and uncertainties
    relating to the laws in China.


 


    The success of our investment in eLong, a company organized
    under Cayman law, whose principal business is the operation of
    an internet-based travel business in China, is subject to risks
    and uncertainties regarding the interpretation of China’s
    laws and regulations. The Chinese legal system is a civil law
    system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it
    is a system in which decided legal cases have limited value as
    precedent. The lack of precedent causes the interpretation and
    enforcement of Chinese law to involve uncertainties that could
    limit the available legal protections. In addition, we cannot
    predict the effect of future developments in China’s legal
    system, particularly with respect to the travel industry, the
    internet, foreign investment or licensing, including the
    introduction of new laws, changes to existing laws or the
    interpretation or enforcement of current or future laws and
    regulations, or the preemption of local regulations by national
    laws. In addition, the laws and regulations of China restrict
    certain direct foreign investment in the air-ticketing, travel
    agency, internet content provision and advertising businesses.
    Such laws and regulations require that we establish effective
    control through a series of agreements with eLong’s
    affiliated Chinese entities and could restrict our ability to
    engage in desirable strategic transactions. Finally, China does
    not have treaties with the United States or most other western
    countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and
    enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, court judgments
    obtained in jurisdictions with which China does not have
    treaties on reciprocal recognition of judgment and in relation
    to any matter not subject to a binding arbitration provision may
    be difficult or impossible to be enforced in China.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data
    could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental
    regulation, conflicting legal requirements, differing views of
    personal privacy rights, or data security breaches.


 


    In the processing of our traveler transactions, we receive and
    store a large volume of personally identifiable information.
    This information is increasingly subject to legislation and
    regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This
    government action is typically intended to protect the privacy
    and security of personal information that is collected,
    processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.
    We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are
    expanded to require changes in our business practices or if
    governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation
    or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations. As privacy and
    data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also
    become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing
    views on the privacy of travel
    and/or
    online data.


 


    We cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent data
    breaches. A substantial data breach could significantly harm our
    business, damage our reputation, expose us to a risk of loss or
    litigation and possible liability
    and/or cause
    customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our
    security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our
    brands.


 


    These and other privacy and security developments that are
    difficult to anticipate could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Acquisitions could result in operating and financial
    difficulties.


 


    Our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. To the
    extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face the
    operational and financial risks that commonly accompany that
    strategy. We would also face operational risks, such as failing
    to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired
    businesses, disrupting their ongoing businesses, increased
    complexity of our business, impairing management resources and
    their relationships with employees and travelers as a result of
    changes in their ownership and management. Further, the
    evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as
    the integration of an acquired business, may divert management
    time and other resources. Some acquisitions may not be
    successful and their performance may result in the impairment of
    their carrying value.


 


    Certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions
    that may have a material impact on our business are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent
    liabilities in funding acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and
    other adverse accounting consequences;




 



     
        • 

    
    Costs incurred in identifying and performing due diligence on
    potential acquisition targets that may or may not be successful;




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations,
    products, technology, information systems or personnel of the
    acquired company;




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and
    affiliates of our business and the acquired business;




 



     
        • 

    
    The assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the
    acquired company;




 



     
        • 

    
    Failure to generate adequate returns on our acquisitions and
    investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior
    experience; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets arising from
    our acquisitions (for example, in the quarter ended
    September 30, 2006, we recognized a $47.0 million
    impairment charge related to an indefinite lived intangible
    asset of Hotwire).






    
    18



Table of Contents



 


    We cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected
    from copying or use by others, including potential
    competitors.


 


    Our websites rely on content and technology intellectual
    property, much of which we regard as proprietary. We protect our
    proprietary technology by relying on trademarks, copyrights,
    trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements. In connection
    with our license agreements with third-parties, we seek to
    control access to and distribution of our technology,
    documentation and other proprietary information. Even with all
    of these precautions, it is possible for someone else to copy or
    otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or content
    without our authorization or to develop similar technology
    independently. Effective trademark, copyright and trade secret
    protection may not be available in every country in which our
    services are made available through the internet, and policing
    unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult and
    expensive. We cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will
    prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. This
    misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. In the future, we may need to go to court to enforce
    our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets
    or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights
    of others. This litigation might result in substantial costs and
    diversion of resources and management attention.


 


    We currently license from third-parties some of the technologies
    incorporated into our websites. As we continue to introduce new
    services that incorporate new technologies, we may be required
    to license additional technology. We cannot be sure that such
    technology licenses will be available on commercially reasonable
    terms, if at all.


 




    
    



    
    Part I. Item 1B