Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors


 


    You should carefully consider each of the following risks and
    uncertainties associated with our company and the ownership of
    our securities. Additional risks not presently known to us or
    that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business
    operations.


 


    We operate in an increasingly competitive environment.


 


    The market for the services we offer is increasingly and
    intensely competitive. We compete with both established and
    emerging online and traditional sellers of travel services with
    respect to each of the services we offer. Some of our
    competitors, particularly travel suppliers such as airlines and
    hotels, may offer products and services on more favorable terms
    such as no fees and with unique access to proprietary loyalty
    programs, such as points and miles. Many of these competitors,
    such as airlines, hotel and rental car companies, have been
    steadily focusing on increasing online demand on their own
    websites in lieu of third-party distributors like us. For
    instance, many low cost airlines, which are having increasing
    success in the marketplace, distribute their online inventory
    exclusively through their own websites. Suppliers who sell on
    their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee,
    and, in some instances, offer advantages such as their own bonus
    miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more
    attractive to consumers than offerings like ours. The
    introduction of new technologies and the expansion of existing
    technologies, such as metasearch and other search engine
    technologies, may increase competitive pressures. Increased
    competition may result in reduced margins, as well as loss of
    travelers, transactions and brand recognition. We cannot assure
    you that we will be able to compete successfully against
    current, emerging and future competitors or provide
    differentiated products and services to our traveler base. This
    competition may result in reduced margins, loss of segment share
    and damage to our brand.


 


    Over the last several years, we have experienced downward
    pressure on commissions and payments to us from our
    suppliers.


 


    A portion of our revenue is derived from compensation paid by
    travel suppliers and GDS partners for bookings made through our
    websites. We generally negotiate these commissions and fees with
    our travel suppliers and GDS partners. Over the last several
    years, travel suppliers have generally reduced or eliminated
    commissions and payments to travel agents and other travel
    intermediaries. In particular, in 2006, GDS partners faced the
    renegotiation of long-term contracts with airlines on terms that
    generally resulted in decreased compensation to them. We also
    renegotiated several long-term contracts with airlines and GDSs
    with reduced economic benefits. We are currently negotiating and
    expect to renegotiate other long-term airline and hotel
    contracts in 2007. No assurances can be given that GDS partners
    or travel suppliers will not further reduce current industry
    compensation or our compensation, either of which could reduce
    our revenue and margins thereby adversely affecting our business
    and financial performance.


 


    Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could
    adversely affect our business or financial performance.


 


    Our business and financial performance are affected by the
    health of the worldwide travel industry. Accordingly, downturns
    or weaknesses in the travel industry could adversely affect our
    business. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and
    personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline
    during general economic downturns. Events or weakness in the
    travel industry that could negatively affect our business
    include price escalation in the airline industry or other
    travel-related industries, airline or other travel-related
    strikes, airline bankruptcies, liquidations or consolidations
    and fuel price escalation. Additionally, our business is
    sensitive to safety concerns, and thus our business may decline
    after incidents of actual or threatened terrorism, during
    periods of political instability or geopolitical conflict in
    which travelers become concerned about safety issues, as a
    result of inclement weather such as hurricanes or when travel
    might involve health-related risks, such as avian flu. Such
    concerns could result in a protracted decrease in



    
    11



Table of Contents




    demand for our travel services. This decrease in demand,
    depending on its scope and duration, together with any future
    issues affecting travel safety, could significantly and
    adversely affect our business and financial performance over the
    short and long-term. In addition, the disruption of the existing
    travel plans of a significant number of travelers upon the
    occurrence of certain events, such as actual or threatened
    terrorist activity or war, could result in the incurrence of
    significant additional costs if we provide relief to affected
    travelers by not charging cancellation fees
    and/or by
    refunding the price of airline tickets, hotel reservations and
    other travel products and services.


 


    Our business depends on our relationships with travel
    suppliers.


 


    An important component of our business success depends on our
    ability to maintain our existing relationships and to build new
    relationships with travel suppliers and GDS partners. Adverse
    changes in existing relationships, or our inability to enter
    into new arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, if
    at all, could reduce the amount, quality and breadth of
    attractively priced travel products and services that we are
    able to offer, which could adversely affect our business and
    financial performance.


 


    Travel suppliers are increasingly seeking to lower their travel
    distribution costs by promoting direct online bookings through
    their own websites. In some cases, supplier direct channels
    offer advantages to consumers, such as loyalty programs
    and/or lower
    transaction fees. In addition, travel suppliers may choose not
    to make their travel products and services available through our
    distribution channels. To the extent that consumers continue to
    increase the percentage of their travel purchases through
    supplier direct websites
    and/or if
    travel suppliers choose not to make their products and services
    available to us, our business may suffer.


 


    We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and,
    if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire,
    retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be
    harmed.


 


    Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts
    of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our
    continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and
    retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our
    organization. In particular, the contributions of Barry Diller,
    our Chairman and Senior Executive, and Dara Khosrowshahi, our
    Chief Executive Officer, are critical to the overall management
    of the company.


 


    In addition, we have experienced a high rate of executive
    turnover during the last two years. Our future success will
    depend on the performance of our senior management and key
    employees, many of whom joined Expedia recently. Expedia cannot
    ensure that it will be able to retain the services of
    Mr. Diller, Mr. Khosrowshahi or any other member of
    our senior management or key employees, the loss of whom could
    seriously harm our business. In addition, competition for
    well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business,
    including software engineers and other technology professionals,
    is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends
    on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and
    motivate our existing employees. If we do not succeed in
    attracting well-qualified employees or retaining or motivating
    existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We
    do not maintain any key person life insurance policies.


 


    System interruption and the lack of integration and
    redundancy in our information systems may harm our
    businesses.


 


    We rely on our own and third-party computer systems and service
    providers to facilitate and process a portion of our
    transactions. We have experienced and may in the future
    experience system interruptions that make some or all of these
    systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling
    orders or providing services to third-parties. Any
    interruptions, outages or delays in our systems or third-party
    providers’ systems, or deterioration in their performance,
    could impair each company’s ability to process transactions
    for its travelers and decrease the quality of service that we
    can offer to our travelers. If we were to experience frequent or
    persistent system failures, our reputation and brands could be
    harmed.


 


    In addition, we do not have backup systems for certain critical
    aspects of our operations, many other systems are not fully
    redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be
    sufficient. Fire, flood, power



    
    12



Table of Contents




    loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts
    of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or
    electronic break-ins and similar events or disruptions may
    damage or interrupt computer or communications systems at any
    time. Any of these events could cause system interruption,
    delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from
    providing services to our travelers
    and/or third
    parties for a significant period of time. Remediation may be
    costly and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such
    costs. Moreover, the costs of enhancing infrastructure to attain
    improved stability and redundancy may be time consuming and
    expensive and may require resources and expertise that are
    difficult to obtain.


 


    Our expansion places a significant strain on our management,
    technical, operational and financial resources.


 


    We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations both
    domestically and internationally and anticipate expanding
    further to pursue growth of our product and service offerings
    and customer base. Such expansion increases the complexity of
    our business and places a significant strain on our management,
    operations, technical performance, financial resources and
    internal financial control and reporting functions.


 


    There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our
    expansion effectively. Our current and planned personnel,
    systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support
    and effectively manage our future operations, especially as we
    employ personnel in multiple geographic locations. We may not be
    able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required
    personnel, which may limit our growth. If any of this were to
    occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth,
    negatively affect our financial performance, and hurt our
    business.


 


    Acquisitions could result in operating and financial
    difficulties.


 


    Our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. To the
    extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face the
    operational and financial risks that commonly accompany that
    strategy. We would also face operational risks, such as failing
    to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired
    businesses, disrupting their ongoing businesses, impairing
    management resources and their relationships with employees and
    travelers as a result of changes in their ownership and
    management. Further, the evaluation and negotiation of potential
    acquisitions, as well as the integration of an acquired
    business, may divert management time and other resources. Some
    acquisitions may not be successful and their performances may
    result in the impairment of their carrying value.


 


    Certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions
    that may have a material impact on our business are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent
    liabilities in funding acquisitions;



 


     
        • 

    
    Amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and
    other adverse accounting consequences;



 


     
        • 

    
    Costs incurred in identifying and performing due diligence on
    potential acquisition targets that may or may not be successful;



 


     
        • 

    
    Difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations,
    products, technology, information systems or personnel of the
    acquired company;



 


     
        • 

    
    Impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and
    affiliates of our business and the acquired business;



 


     
        • 

    
    The assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the
    acquired company;



 


     
        • 

    
    Entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior
    experience; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets arising from
    our acquisitions (for example, in the quarter ended
    September 30, 2006, we recognized a $47.0 million
    impairment charge related to an indefinite lived intangible
    asset of Hotwire).






    
    13



Table of Contents



 


    Our stock price is highly volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and
    could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to
    factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our
    control:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Quarterly variations in our operating results;



 


     
        • 

    
    Operating results that vary from the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in expectations as to our future financial performance,
    including financial estimates by securities analysts and
    investors;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in our capital structure;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in market valuations of other internet or online service
    companies;



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements of technological innovations or new services by us
    or our competitors;



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts,
    acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital
    commitments;



 


     
        • 

    
    Loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or
    hotel chain;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;



 


     
        • 

    
    Lack of success in the expansion of our business model
    geographically;



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements by third parties of significant claims or
    proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending
    proceedings;



 


     
        • 

    
    Additions or departures of key personnel; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Market and volume fluctuations in the stock markets in general.





 


    We may not be able to engage in desirable strategic
    transactions and equity issuances due to our tax sharing
    arrangements.


 


    Our ability to engage in significant stock transactions could be
    limited or restricted to preserve the tax free nature of our
    Spin-Off from IAC. Current federal income tax law creates a
    presumption that the Spin-Off would be taxable to IAC, but not
    to its stockholders, if either IAC or we enter into a
    transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change, by
    vote or value, in IAC’s or our stock ownership during the
    four-year period that begins two years before the date of the
    Spin-Off, unless it is established that the transaction is not
    pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the
    Spin-Off. Treasury regulations currently in effect generally
    provide that whether an acquisition transaction and a Spin-Off
    are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and
    circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors
    described in the regulations. In addition, the regulations
    provide several “safe harbors” for acquisition
    transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. These
    restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions
    which might be advantageous to our stockholders, such as selling
    the company or substantially all of the assets of the company,
    issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or
    acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities.


 


    Under the tax sharing agreement with IAC, there are restrictions
    on our ability to take actions that could cause the Spin-Off to
    fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, including redeeming
    substantial amounts of our equity securities and selling or
    otherwise disposing of a substantial portion of our assets, in
    each case, for a period of 25 months following the
    Spin-Off, which period ends in September 2007. We would be
    required to indemnify IAC against the taxes described in the
    preceding sentence if such tax is incurred by a breach of our
    covenants under the tax sharing agreement.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Mr. Diller currently controls Expedia; and if
    Mr. Diller ceases to control the company, Liberty Media
    Corporation may effectively control the company.


 


    Subject to the terms of the Stockholders Agreement,
    Mr. Diller holds an irrevocable proxy to vote shares of
    Expedia stock held by Liberty. Accordingly, Mr. Diller
    effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a
    vote or for the consent of our stockholders (other than with
    respect to the election by the holders of common stock of 25% of
    the members of the Board of Directors and matters as to which
    Delaware law requires a separate class vote). Upon
    Mr. Diller’s permanent departure from Expedia, the
    irrevocable proxy would terminate and depending on the
    capitalization of Expedia at such time, Liberty may effectively
    control the voting power of our capital stock. Mr. Diller,
    through shares he owns beneficially as well as those subject to
    the irrevocable proxy, controlled approximately 55% of the
    combined voting power of the outstanding Expedia capital stock
    as of December 31, 2006 and approximately 58% as of
    January 19, 2007, following our repurchase of
    30 million shares of our common stock.


 


    In addition, under the Governance Agreement, each of
    Mr. Diller and Liberty generally has the right to consent
    to limited matters in the event that our ratio of total debt to
    EBITDA, as defined in the Governance Agreement, equals or
    exceeds 4:1 over a continuous
    12-month
    period. We cannot assure you that Mr. Diller and Liberty
    will consent to any such matter at a time when we are highly
    leveraged, in which case we would not be able to engage in such
    transactions or take such actions.


 


    As a result of Mr. Diller’s ownership interests and
    voting power, and Liberty’s ownership interests and voting
    power upon Mr. Diller’s permanent departure from us,
    Mr. Diller is currently, and in the future Liberty may be,
    in a position to control or influence significant corporate
    actions, including, corporate transactions such as mergers,
    business combinations or dispositions of assets and
    determinations with respect to our significant business
    direction and policies. This concentrated control could
    discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover
    or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be
    beneficial to us.


 


    Actual or potential conflicts of interest may develop between
    Expedia management and directors, on the one hand, and the
    management and directors of IAC, on the other.


 


    Mr. Diller serves as our Chairman of the Board of Directors
    and Senior Executive, while retaining his role as Chairman and
    Chief Executive Officer of IAC, and Mr. Kaufman serves as
    Vice Chairman of both Expedia and IAC. The fact that
    Messrs. Diller and Kaufman hold positions with both
    companies and own both IAC and Expedia stock could create, or
    appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for each of
    Messrs. Diller and Kaufman when facing decisions that may
    affect both IAC and Expedia. Both Messrs. Diller and
    Kaufman may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the
    allocation of their time between IAC and Expedia.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation provides that no officer or
    director of Expedia who is also an officer or director of IAC
    will be liable to Expedia or its stockholders for breach of any
    fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual
    directs a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of Expedia, or
    does not communicate information regarding a corporate
    opportunity to Expedia because the officer or director has
    directed the corporate opportunity to IAC. This corporate
    opportunity provision may have the effect of exacerbating the
    risk of conflicts of interest between IAC and Expedia because
    the provision effectively shields an overlapping
    director/executive officer from liability for breach of
    fiduciary duty in the event that such director or officer
    chooses to direct a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of
    Expedia.


 


    Changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties
    may adversely affect our business or financial performance.


 


    Our business and financial performance could be adversely
    affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of
    existing, or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations
    applicable to us and our businesses, including those relating to
    the internet and online commerce, consumer protection and
    privacy, could decrease demand for products and services,
    increase costs
    and/or
    subject us to additional liabilities. For example, there is, and
    will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and
    regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce,
    which may relate to liability for information retrieved from or
    transmitted



    
    15



Table of Contents




    over the internet, user privacy, taxation and the quality of
    products and services. Furthermore, the growth and development
    of online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer
    protection laws that may impose additional burdens on online
    businesses generally.


 


    Adverse application of tax laws, rules or regulations could
    have an adverse effect on our businesses and financial
    performance.


 


    In addition, the application of various domestic and
    international sales, use, occupancy, value-added and other tax
    laws, rules and regulations to our historical and new products
    and services is subject to interpretation by the applicable
    taxing authorities. Many of the fundamental statutes and
    regulations that impose these taxes were established before the
    growth of the internet and
    e-commerce.
    If the tax laws, rules and regulations were amended or if
    current laws are interpreted adversely to our interests,
    particularly with respect to occupancy or value-added taxes, the
    results could decrease the demand for our products and services
    if we pass on such costs to the consumer, increase our tax
    payments and/or subject us to penalties. As a result these
    changes could have an adverse affect on our businesses or
    financial performance. We continue to work with relevant tax
    authorities and legislators to clarify our obligations under
    existing, new and emerging laws and regulations. There have
    been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs
    associated with complying with the various indirect tax
    requirements in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will
    conduct business.


 


    Our international operations involve risks relating to
    differing customs and cultures as well as commercial and
    regulatory environments.


 


    We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the United
    States and intend to continue to expand our international
    presence. In order to achieve widespread acceptance in the
    countries and markets we enter, we must continue to tailor our
    services to the unique customs and cultures of such countries
    and markets. Learning the customs and cultures of various
    countries, particularly with respect to travel patterns and
    practices, can be difficult, costly and divert management and
    personnel resources. Our failure to learn such customs and
    cultures successfully could slow our international growth.


 


    We expect to continue to face additional risks in international
    operations. These risks include political instability,
    threatened or actual acts of terrorism, unexpected changes in
    regulatory requirements, our ability to comply with additional
    U.S. and local laws and regulations, increased risk and limits
    on our ability to enforce intellectual property rights, slower
    adoption of the internet as an advertising and commerce medium
    in those markets as compared to the United States and
    difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language
    and cultural differences, including issues associated with
    establishing management systems and infrastructures and staffing
    and managing foreign operations.


 


    We have foreign exchange risk.


 


    As a result of our international websites and acquisitions, we
    conduct a significant and growing portion of our business
    outside the United States. Further, due to the nature of our
    operations and our corporate structure, we have subsidiaries
    that have significant transactions in foreign currencies other
    than their functional currency. As a result, we face exposure to
    movements in currency exchange rates, particularly those related
    to the British Pound Sterling, the Euro, Canadian dollar and
    Chinese Renminbi. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may
    adversely impact our results of operations as exchange rate
    fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other
    than the functional currency results in gains and losses that
    are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations.
    Additionally, the results of operations of our foreign
    subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations
    as the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries are
    translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon
    consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the local
    currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated
    balances will result in increased net assets, net revenues,
    operating expenses, net income or loss as well as decreased cash
    flows from operations. Similarly, our net assets, net revenues,
    operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the
    U.S. dollar strengthens against the local currency.



    
    16



Table of Contents




    Our investment in eLong creates risks and uncertainties
    relating to the laws of the People’s Republic of China.


 


    The success of our investment in eLong, a company organized
    under Cayman law, whose principal business is the operation of
    an internet-based travel business in the People’s Republic
    of China, is subject to risks and uncertainties regarding the
    interpretation of China’s laws and regulations. The Chinese
    legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes.
    Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal
    cases have limited value as precedent. The lack of precedent
    causes the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese law to
    involve uncertainties that could limit the available legal
    protections. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future
    developments in China’s legal system, particularly with
    respect to the travel industry, the internet, foreign investment
    or licensing, including the introduction of new laws, changes to
    existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement of current or
    future laws and regulations, or the preemption of local
    regulations by national laws. In addition, the laws and
    regulations of China restrict foreign investment in the
    air-ticketing, travel agency, internet content provision and
    advertising businesses. Such laws and regulations require that
    we establish effective control through a series of agreements
    with eLong’s affiliated Chinese entities and could restrict
    our ability to engage in desirable strategic transactions.
    Finally, China does not have treaties with the United States or
    most other western countries providing for the reciprocal
    recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result,
    court judgments obtained in jurisdictions with which China does
    not have treaties on reciprocal recognition of judgment and in
    relation to any matter not subject to a binding arbitration
    provision may be difficult or impossible to be enforced in China.


 


    Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data
    could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental
    regulation, conflicting legal requirements, differing views of
    personal privacy rights, or data security breaches.


 


    In the processing of our traveler transactions, we receive and
    store a large volume of personally identifiable information.
    This information is increasingly subject to legislation and
    regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This
    government action is typically intended to protect the privacy
    and security of personal information that is collected,
    processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.
    We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are
    expanded to require changes in our business practices or if
    governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation
    or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations. As privacy and
    data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also
    become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing
    views on the privacy of travel data.


 


    We cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent data
    breaches. Substantial data breaches could significantly harm our
    business, damage our reputation, expose us to a risk of loss or
    litigation and possible liability
    and/or cause
    customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our
    security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our
    brands.


 


    These and other privacy and security developments that are
    difficult to anticipate could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Our business could be negatively affected by changes in
    search engine algorithms and dynamics.


 


    We utilize internet search engines, principally through the
    purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our
    websites. In a similar way, a significant amount of our European
    business is directed to our own websites through participation
    in
    pay-per-click
    advertising campaigns on internet search engines whose pricing
    and operating dynamics can experience rapid change both
    technically and competitively. If a major search engine changes
    its algorithms in a manner that further negatively affects the
    search engine ranking of us or our third-party distribution
    partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive
    dynamics in a negative manner, our business and financial
    performance would be adversely affected.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    We cannot be sure that our intellectual property is protected
    from copying or use by others, including potential
    competitors.


 


    Our websites rely on content and technology intellectual
    property, much of which we regard as proprietary. We protect our
    proprietary technology by relying on trademarks, copyrights,
    trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements. In connection
    with our license agreements with third-parties, we seek to
    control access to and distribution of our technology,
    documentation and other proprietary information. Even with all
    of these precautions, it is possible for someone else to copy or
    otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without our
    authorization or to develop similar technology independently.
    Effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may
    not be available in every country in which our services are made
    available through the internet, and policing unauthorized use of
    our proprietary information is difficult and expensive. We
    cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent
    misappropriation of our proprietary information. This
    misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. In the future, we may need to go to court to enforce
    our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets
    or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights
    of others. This litigation might result in substantial costs and
    diversion of resources and management attention.


 


    We currently license from third-parties some of the technologies
    incorporated into our websites. As we continue to introduce new
    services that incorporate new technologies, we may be required
    to license additional technology. We cannot be sure that such
    technology licenses will be available on commercially reasonable
    terms, if at all.


 



    Part I. Item 1B