ITEM 1A. Risk Factors




We have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us:




Decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the United States or Europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geo-political events, or other factors. Beginning in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on Ford and the automotive industry generally.  These economic conditions dramatically reduced industry sales volume in the United States and Europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world.  In the United States, industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007, to 13.5 million units in 2008 and to 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding slightly to 11.8 million units in 2010.  For the 19 markets we track in Europe, industry sales volume declined fro
m 18 million units in 2007, to 16.6 million units in 2008, 15.9 million units in 2009 and 15.3 million units in 2010.




Because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability.  If industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumptions, particularly in the United States or Europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geo-political events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected.  For discussion of economic trends, see the "Overview" section of Item 7.




Decline in market share or failure to achieve growth.  Between 1995 and 2008, our full-year U.S. market share declined each year; from 2004 to 2008, our U.S. market share declined from 18% to 14.2%.  With our One Ford plan, we have seen U.S. market share gains in 2009 and 2010.  To maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, however, we also must grow our market share in fast-growing emerging markets, particularly in Asia Pacific, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets.  Our market share in certain growing markets, such as China, is substantially lower than it is in our mature markets.  A decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in emerging market
s could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.




Lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products.  Although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside of our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace.  Offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks.  For example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be aff
ected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability.




An increase in or acceleration of market shift beyond our current planning assumptions from sales of trucks, medium- and large-sized utilities, or other more profitable vehicles, particularly in the United States.  Trucks and medium- and large-sized utilities historically have represented some of our most profitable vehicle segments, and the segments in which we have had our highest market share.  In the 2005 – 2008 period, the general shift in consumer preferences in the U.S. market away from medium- and large-sized utilities and trucks adversely affected our overall market share and profitability.  Although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large, cars, utilities, and trucks, a shift in consumer pr
eferences away from more profitable vehicle sales at levels greater than our current planning assumption – whether because of fuel prices, declines in the construction industry, governmental actions or incentives, or other reasons – could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.




An increase in fuel prices, continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel.  An increase in fuel prices, as well as continued price volatility or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the United States, could result in further weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable medium and large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles.  Continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand for these segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.






  



24







  


 


ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)

 


 


Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors.  The global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand.  According to the January 2011 report issued by IHS Automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 17 million units in 2010.  Industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives.  As a result, we are not necessarily
 able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, particularly in the European and U.S. markets.  A continuation or increase in excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.




Adverse effects from the bankruptcy, insolvency, or government-funded restructuring of, change in ownership or control of, or alliances entered into by a major competitor.  Prior to the government-funded bankruptcy of our domestic competitors General Motors and Chrysler, each of the domestic automakers had substantial "legacy" costs (principally related to employee benefits), as well as a substantial amount of debt.  These conditions historically had put each of us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign competitors who began manufacturing in the United States more recently.  The government-funded bankruptcy of our domestic competitors has allowed them to eliminate or substantially reduce contractual obligations, including signi
ficant amounts of debt, and avoid other liabilities.  The elimination or reduction of these obligations, combined with the benefits attendant to restructuring brands and dealer networks as well as access to low-cost government funding, could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and results of operations.




Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates.  As a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates.  These risks affect our Automotive and Financial Services sectors.  We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our business.  Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged.  In addi
tion, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable.  As a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  See Item 7A for additional discussion of currency, commodity price and interest rate risks.




Economic distress of suppliers that may require us to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase our costs, affect our liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions.  Our industry is highly interdependent, with broad overlap of supplier and dealer networks among manufacturers, such that the uncontrolled bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor or major suppliers could threaten our supplier or dealer network and thus pose a threat to us as well.  Even in the absence of such an event, our supply base has experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes in recent years that affected all manufacturers.&#
160; Dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage.  These factors increased pressure on the supply base, and, as a result, suppliers were not only less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases, as well as new and shorter payment terms.  In addition, in the past we have taken and may continue to take actions to provide financial assistance to certain suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components.  Suppliers also exited certain lines of business or closed facilities, which results in additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers.  In addition, as industry volume improves with the general economic recovery, suppliers that downsized significantly during the economic downturn may face capacity constraints as demand recovers that could cause temporary shortages of supplies or components.




Single-source supply of components or materials.  Many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or inexpensively re-sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier in order to provide the components or materials.  In addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component.

 



  



25







  

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)



 

 

Labor or other constraints on our ability to maintain competitive cost structure.  Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations in the United States and Canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  We negotiated a new agreement with the UAW in 2007 and with the CAW in 2008 which expire in September 2011 and September 2012, respectively.  Although these transformational agreements were amended during 2009 to bring us much of the way to parity with our competitors, the agreements still provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and a degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions.  As a practical matter, these 
agreements restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses.  Additionally, rejection by Ford-UAW membership of further modifications to the collective bargaining agreement in late 2009 (i.e., rejection of a proposed "no strike" clause and binding arbitration provision), which were agreed to with our domestic competitors, may put us at a disadvantage during the next round of labor negotiations; see "Employment Data" in "Item 1. Business" ("Item 1") for additional discussion.




A substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom in these regions promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to close manufacturing or other facilities.




Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of production.  A work stoppage or other interruption of production could occur at Ford or supplier facilities as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, supplier financial distress, production constraints, or other reasons.  For example, many suppliers experienced financial distress due to decreasing production volume and increasing prices for raw materials during 2008 and 2009, jeopardizing their ability to produce parts for us.  Now, because of the restructuring that took place in the supply base during that period, as production volume 
increases suppliers may experience capacity constraints.  A work stoppage or interruption of production at Ford or supplier facilities due to labor disputes, shortages of supplies, or any other reason (including but not limited to tight credit markets or other financial distress, natural or man-made disasters, information technology issues, or production constraints or difficulties) could substantially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.




Substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition. We have qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the United States that cover our hourly and salaried employees.  We also provide pension benefits to non-U.S. employees and retirees, primarily in Europe.  In addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits for retired employees, primarily health care and life insurance benefits.  See Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information about these plans, including funded status.  These benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair 
our liquidity.




Our U.S. defined benefit pension plans are subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA").  Under Title IV of ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan.  One such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the PBGC.  Although we believe that it is not likely that the PBGC would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our U.S. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the PBGC that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding.




As of December 31, 2010, our U.S. and worldwide defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by a total of $6.7 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively.  If our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or postretirement health care and life insurance obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.  In addition, if our operating results and available cash were insufficient to meet our pension or postretirement health care and life insurance obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our pension or postretirement health care and life insurance obligations.  We might
 not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and any proceeds might not be adequate to meet any pension and postretirement health care or life insurance obligations then due.

 



  



26







  

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)



 

 

Worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns).  The measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present values of projected future payments to all participants.  We use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates).  To the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and result
s of operations.  For discussion of our assumptions, see "Critical Accounting Estimates" in Item 7 and Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.




Restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change."  Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ("Tax Attributes").  At December 31, 2010 we had Tax Attributes that would offset $20 billion of taxable income (representing about $7 billion of our $15.7 billion in deferred tax assets subject to valuation allowance).  An ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period.  Restructuring actions w
e took in 2009, including our exchange of Ford Common Stock for convertible debt and our public issuance of additional Ford Common Stock, contributed significantly to the collective increase in ownership by 5 percent shareholders.  At present, 5 percent shareholders may have collectively increased their ownership in Ford by more than 25 percentage points.  In September 2009, we implemented a tax benefit preservation plan (the "Plan") to reduce the risk of an ownership change under Section 382.  Under the Plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our Board of Directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of Ford's outstanding Common Stock could be subject to significant dilution.




The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, reputational damage, or increased warranty costs.  Meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards.  Government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard.  Should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety 
or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied.  The costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defect, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial.  Further, adverse publicity surrounding actual or alleged safety-related or other defects could damage our reputation and adversely affect sales of our products.




Increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions.  The worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of governmental regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country.  Governmental regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence.  In addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing their balance of paymen
ts.  In recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their GHG emissions.  There are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, and the human, engineering and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time.  The cost to comply with existing governmental regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations (already enacted, adopted or proposed) could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
  For more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the "Governmental Standards" discussion in Item 1 above.

 



  



27







  

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)



 

 

Unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in our products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise.  We spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards.  Compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk.  In certain circumstances, courts permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal law and/or other applicable law.  Furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations 
of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources.  Litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results.  In addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation of a defect, regulatory violation or other matter (with or without corresponding litigation or governmental investigation) may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on sales of our products.




A change in our requirements where we have long-term supply arrangements committing us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts).  We have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles.  If our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract.




Adverse effects on our results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments.  We receive economic benefits from national, state and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain or increase investment, workforce or production.  These incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits.  The impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period.  For example, most of our manufacturing facilities in South America are located in Brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and 
continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs.  As a result, the performance of our South American operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in Brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years.  A decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to fund new investments.  See Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for discussion of the accounting for government incentives, and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" for discussion of administrative tax proceedings in Brazil.</di
v>




Adverse effects on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other events. We conduct business in countries around the world, and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of emerging and newly-developed markets.  These activities expose us to, among other things, risks associated with geo-political events, such as:  governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities; disruption of operations in a particular country as a result of political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities; or acts of terrorism.  Such events could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of opera
tions.




Inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets.  Our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets.






  



28







  

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)


 

 


Substantial levels of Automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial condition or preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations.  Although we reduced Automotive debt significantly in 2010, we remain highly leveraged as we work to improve our balance sheet.  Our significant Automotive debt could have important consequences, including the following:  we must pay interest on our significant indebtedness, which may reduce funds available to us for operations and other purposes to levels below that of our competitors with lower interest costs; and our level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.  For further information regarding our liquidity and
 capital resources, including our secured credit agreement established in December 2006 ("Credit Agreement"), see the discussion in Item 7 under the captions "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Overview," and in Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.




Failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit facilities.  As permitted under our Credit Agreement, we have repaid $6.7 billion under our revolving credit facility, which we can re-borrow until the facility terminates.  If the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.  For discussion of our Credit Agreement, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 and Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.




A prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization markets.  In the event of a prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization markets, Ford Credit would consider reducing the amount of receivables it purchases or originates.  A significant reduction in the amount of receivables Ford Credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles.  To the extent Ford Credit's ability to provide wholesale financing to our dealers or retail financing to those dealers' customers is limited, Ford's ability to sell vehicles could be adversely affected.




Inability of Ford Credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors.  In 2005 and 2006, the credit ratings assigned to Ford Credit were lowered to below investment grade, which increased its unsecured borrowing costs and restricted its access to the unsecured debt markets.  In response, Ford Credit increased its use of securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and other sources of funding.  In 2010, although Ford Credit experienced several credit rating upgrades and its credit spreads narrowed considerably, its credit ratings are still
 below investment grade.  Ford Credit's higher credit ratings have provided it more economical access to the unsecured debt markets, but it is still utilizing asset-backed securitization transactions for a substantial amount of its funding.




Ford Credit’s ability to obtain funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs as well as Ford Credit’s ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk.  Over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, Ford Credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints.  In addition, Ford Credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there were a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or Ford Cre
dit was unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions.  A significant reduction in the amount of receivables Ford Credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles.




Higher-than-expected credit losses.  Credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms.  Credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on Ford Credit's business.  The level of credit losses Ford Credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.  For additional discussion regarding credit losses, see the "Critical Accounting Estimates" disclosures in Item 7.







  



29







  

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)


 

 


Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles.  No single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry.  Most of Ford Credit's bank competitors in the United States use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources.  This process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates.  In addition, Ford Credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for Ford dealers.  Competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs may increas
e, which could adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability and the volume of its business.




Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases.  After Ford Credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables.  Any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and/or satisfy its customers.




Lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles.  Ford Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from Ford) and return volumes of the vehicles it leases.  Actual proceeds realized by Ford Credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction.  Among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles.  A
ctual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions.  All of these factors, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect Ford Credit's profitability.  For additional discussion of residual values, see the "Critical Accounting Estimates" disclosures in Item 7.




Imposition of additional costs or restrictions due to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Act") and its implementing rules and regulations.  The Act was enacted on July 21, 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations.  The Act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets, including certain commercial transactions such as derivatives contracts.  Among other things, the Act creates a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that will regulate consumer finance businesses, such as Ford Credit'
s retail automotive financing business in the United States.  The Act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the U.S. Treasury Secretary (in consultation with the President of the United States) determines that it is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., U.S. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States.  The FDIC's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under U.S. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including Ford Credit's funding activities, regardless of whether Ford Credit ever is determined to be subject to the Act's alternative liquidation framework.




In addition, the Act provides that a finance company could be designated a "significant non-bank financial company" by the Financial Stability Oversight Council and thus be subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  Such a designation would mean that a non-bank finance company such as Ford Credit, in effect, could be regulated like a bank with respect to capital and other requirements, but without the benefits of being a bank – such as the ability to offer FDIC-insured deposits.  Further, the Act prohibits the use of credit ratings in a prospectus (which is required to be included for securitization offerings such as those conducted by us) without the consent of the rating agency.  The rating agencies have indicated they will not consent to such inclusion
.  The SEC has provided indefinite relief from this requirement for public offerings of asset-backed securities through a no-action letter.  Without such relief, the public securitization markets would be impaired in the United States.




Federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations necessary to implement the Act, and, consequently, the effects of the Act on the capital markets and the consumer finance industry may not be known for months or years.  The Act and its implementing rules and regulations could impose additional costs on Ford Credit and adversely affect its ability to conduct its business.






  



30







  

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)


 

 


New or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions.  As a finance company, Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates.  In the United States, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and Fair Credit Reporting Act.  In some countries outside the United States, Ford Credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capit
al reserves.  In many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses.  Efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect the conduct of its business.  Additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability.




Inability of Ford Credit to obtain competitive funding.  Other institutions that provide automotive financing to certain of our competitors have access to relatively low-cost government-insured or other funding.  For example, financial institutions with bank holding company status may have access to other lower cost sources of funding.  Access by our competitors' dealers and customers to financing provided by financial institutions with relatively low-cost funding that is not available to Ford Credit could adversely affect Ford Credit's ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles at competitive cost and rates.  This in turn would adversely affect the marketability of F
ord vehicles in comparison to certain competitive brands. 







ITEM 1B