ITEM 1A. Risk Factors



     We have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the
most significant risk factors applicable to us:


Continued decline in market share. Our overall market share in the United States has declined
in each of the past five years, from 21.1% in 2002 to 17.1% in 2006. The decline in overall
market share primarily reflects a decline in our retail market share, which excludes fleet
sales, during the past five years from 16.3% in 2002 to 11.8% in 2006. Because a high
proportion of our costs are fixed, these volume reductions have had an adverse impact on our
results of operations. While we are attempting to stabilize our market share and reduce our
capacity over time through the restructuring actions described in “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview,” we cannot
be certain that we will be successful. Continued declines in our market share could have a
substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.


Continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency
fluctuations or other factors. The global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with
overall manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. For example, the global automotive
industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 14.8 million units in 2006. Industry
overcapacity has resulted in many of our principal competitors offering marketing incentives on
vehicles in an attempt to maintain market share. These marketing incentives have included a
combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates and other incentives. As
a result, we have not necessarily been able to increase prices sufficiently to offset higher
costs of marketing incentives or other cost increases (e.g., for commodities or health care) or
the impact of adverse currency fluctuations in either the U.S. or European markets. While we,
General Motors and DaimlerChrysler have each announced plans to reduce capacity significantly,
these reductions will take several years to complete and will only partially address the
industry’s overcapacity problems. A continuation or increase in these trends could have a
substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.


A market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or
sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the United States.
Trucks and sport utility vehicles historically have represented some of our most profitable
vehicle segments and the segment in which we have our highest market share. During the past few
years, there has been a general shift in consumer preferences away from medium- and large-sized
sport utility vehicles, which has adversely affected our overall market share and our
profitability. A continuation or acceleration of this general shift in consumer preferences
away from sport utility vehicles, or a similar shift in consumer preferences away from truck
sales or other more profitable vehicle sales, whether because of higher fuel prices, declines in
the construction industry or otherwise, could have an increasingly adverse effect on our results
of operations and financial condition.



19




Table of Contents






ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)



A significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the United States or Europe, resulting
from slowing economic growth, geo-political events or other factors. The worldwide automotive
industry is affected significantly by general economic conditions (among other factors) over
which automobile manufacturers have little control. This is especially so because vehicles are
durable goods, which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an
existing vehicle. The decision whether and when to make a vehicle purchase may be affected
significantly by slowing economic growth, geo-political events, and other factors. Consumer
demand may vary substantially from year to year, and, in any given year, consumer demand may be
affected significantly by general economic conditions, including the cost of purchasing and
operating a vehicle and the availability and cost of credit and fuel.


     Moreover, like other manufacturers, we have a high proportion of costs that are fixed, so
that relatively small changes in wholesale unit volumes may dramatically affect overall
profitability. In recent years, industry demand has remained at high levels. Should industry
demand soften because of slowing or negative economic growth in key markets or other factors,
our results of operations and financial condition could be substantially adversely affected.
For additional discussion of economic trends, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview.”


Lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. Offering highly desirable
vehicles can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand.
Conversely, offering vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of
price, quality, styling, safety, overall value or otherwise) can exacerbate these risks. For
example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle’s
perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower
sales volumes, market share and profitability.


Continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel. A continuation of or
further increase in high prices for fuel or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the
United States, could result in weaker demand for relatively more profitable large and luxury car
and truck models and increased demand for relatively less profitable small cars and trucks. An
acceleration of such a trend, as demonstrated in the short-term with the spike in fuel prices
following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the U.S. Gulf Coast region in 2005, could have a substantial
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.


Currency or commodity price fluctuations. As a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we
are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. These risks affect our Automotive
and Financial Services sectors. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of
our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks
to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our business. Nevertheless, changes in currency
exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. In
addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be
able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. Substantial changes in these rates
and prices could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations. For additional discussion of currency or commodity price risk, see “Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.”


Adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor. We and certain of our
major competitors have substantial “legacy” costs (principally related to employee benefits)
that put each of us at a competitive disadvantage to other competitors. The bankruptcy or
insolvency of a major competitor with substantial “legacy” costs could result in that competitor
gaining a significant cost advantage (by eliminating or reducing contractual obligations to
unions and other parties through bankruptcy proceedings). In addition, the bankruptcy or
insolvency of a major auto manufacturer likely could lead to substantial disruptions in the
automotive supply base, which could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition
and results of operations.


20




Table of Contents






ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)



Economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide
financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials.
Automobile manufacturers continue to experience commodity cost pressures and the effects of
industry overcapacity. These factors have also increased pressure on the industry’s supply
base, as suppliers cope with higher commodity costs, lower production volumes and other
challenges. As a result, suppliers have been less able to absorb commodity cost increases or to
achieve productivity improvements, and, therefore, less willing to reduce prices to us. We have
taken and may continue to take actions to provide financial assistance to certain suppliers to
ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. For example, in 2005 we reacquired
from Visteon twenty-three North American facilities in order to protect our supply of
components. In connection with this transaction, we forgave $1.1 billion of Visteon’s liability
to us for employee-related costs, and incurred a pre-tax loss of $468 million.


Labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business. Substantially all of the
hourly employees in our Automotive operations in the United States and Canada are represented by
unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our agreement with the United
Automobile Workers union expires in September 2007 and will be renegotiated this year. Our
agreement with the Canadian Automobile Workers union expires in September 2008 and will be
renegotiated next year. These agreements provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels
throughout their terms and provide for significant employment security. As a practical matter,
these agreements restrict our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest
businesses during the terms of the agreements. These agreements may also limit our ability to
change local work rules and practices to encourage flexible manufacturing and other
efficiency-related improvements. Accordingly, unless we are able to negotiate significant
changes to these agreements, they may impede our ability to restructure our business
successfully to compete more effectively in today’s global marketplace. For discussion of our
restructuring plans, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations — Overview.”


Work stoppages at Ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies. A work
stoppage could occur at Ford or supplier facilities, most likely as a result of disputes under
existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, or in connection with negotiations
of new collective bargaining agreements, such as the renegotiation in 2007 of our
agreement with the United Automobile Workers union. A dispute under an existing collective
bargaining agreement could arise, for example, as a result of efforts to implement restructuring
actions, such as those discussed under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview.” A work stoppage for this or other
reasons at Ford or its suppliers, or an interruption or shortage of supplies for any reason
(e.g., financial distress, natural disaster or production difficulties affecting a supplier), if
protracted, could substantially adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.


Single-source supply of components or materials. Some components used in our vehicles (e.g.,
certain diesel engines) are available from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or
inexpensively re-sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and contractual commitments
that might be required by another supplier in order to provide the component or materials. In
addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated
in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially
could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms
relating to a component.


Substantial pension and postretirement healthcare and life insurance liabilities impairing our
liquidity or financial condition. We have two principal qualified defined benefit retirement
plans in the United States that provide noncontributory benefits to employees. Certain of our
U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries have separate similar noncontributory plans that generally
provide similar types of benefits for their employees. In addition, we, and certain of our
subsidiaries, sponsor plans to provide selected health care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information
about these plans, including funded status.


      Our U.S. defined benefit pension plans are subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). Under Title IV of ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation (“PBGC”) has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of
certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. One of those circumstances is the
occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the
PBGC. Although we believe that it is not likely that the PBGC will terminate any of our plans,
in the event that our U.S. pension plans were to be terminated at a time when the liabilities of
the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the PBGC that could be
equal to the entire amount of the underfunding.


21




Table of Contents



ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)



     
If our cash flows and capital resources were to be insufficient to
fund our pension or
postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay
investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or
restructure or refinance our
indebtedness. In addition, if our operating results and available cash were to be insufficient
to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, we could face
substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations
to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations. We might not
be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from
them, and these proceeds might not be adequate to meet any pension or postretirement healthcare
and life insurance obligations then due.


Worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans
(e.g., discount rates, investment returns, health care cost trends). The measurement of our
obligations, costs and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement
benefit plans requires that we estimate the present values of projected future payments to all
participants. We use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions
related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, health care cost
trends, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). To the extent that
actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse
impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of these
assumptions, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates” and Note 23 of the Notes to Financial
Statements.


The discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns
and/or increased warranty costs. Meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards
is costly, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in
order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. Government safety
standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through
safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines
that they do not comply with a safety standard. Should we or government safety regulators
determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our
vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until
such defect is remedied. The costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches
necessary to remedy such defect, or the cost of recall campaigns to remedy such defects in
vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial.


Increased safety, emissions (e.g., CO2), fuel economy or other (e.g., pension
funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions.
The worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial number of governmental
regulations, which often differ by state, region and country. In the United States and Europe,
for example, governmental regulation has arisen primarily out of concern for the environment,
greater vehicle safety and a desire for improved fuel economy. Many governments regulate local
product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting
domestic producers and influencing their balance of payments. The cost of complying with these
requirements can be substantial.


      Our ability to comply with CAFE or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends heavily on
the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand. If consumers demand vehicles that
are relatively large, have high performance, and/or are feature-laden while regulatory standards
are skewed toward vehicles that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic.
Moreover, if legislative or regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in
fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions), the Company
may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of its
vehicle fleet. If significant increases in CAFE standards are imposed beyond those presently in
effect or proposed, or if state greenhouse gas regulations are not overturned, we may be forced
to take various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume
and profits. For example, we may have to curtail production of certain vehicles such as
family-size, luxury, and high-performance cars and full-size light-trucks; restrict offerings of
selected engines and popular options; and/or increase market support programs for our most
fuel-efficient cars and light-trucks in order to maintain compliance. See “Item 1. Governmental
Standards” for additional discussion.


22




Table of Contents



ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)



Unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects
in our products or otherwise. We spend substantial resources ensuring compliance with
governmental safety and other standards. However, compliance with governmental standards does
not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost
and risk. For example, the preemptive effect of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards is
often a contested issue in litigation, and some courts have permitted liability findings even
where our vehicles comply with federal law. Furthermore, simply responding to litigation or
government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards requires significant
expenditures of time and other resources.


A change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long-term supply
arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or
materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller (“take-or-pay” contracts). We have entered
into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of
parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. If our need for any of these parts were to
lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum
amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract. We also have entered into a small
number of long-term supply contracts for raw materials (for example, precious metals used in
catalytic converters) that require us to purchase a fixed percentage of mine output. If our
need for any of these raw materials were to lessen, or if a supplier’s output of materials were
to increase, we could be required to purchase more materials than we need.


Adverse effects on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other events. We
conduct a significant portion of our business in countries outside of the United States, and are
pursuing growth opportunities in a number of emerging markets. These activities expose us to,
among other things, risks associated with geo-political events, such as a governmental takeover
(i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities; disruption of operations in a
particular country as a result of political or economic instability, the outbreak of war or the
expansion of hostilities; or acts of terrorism. Such events could have a substantial adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.


Substantial
negative Automotive operating-related cash flows for the near- to medium-term
affecting our ability to meet our obligations, invest in our business or refinance our debt.
During the next few years, we expect substantial negative operating-related cash outflows.
Future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise in amounts
sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness and to fund our other liquidity needs. For
example, if we are unable to meet certain covenants of our $11.5 billion secured credit facility
established in December 2006 (e.g., if the value of assets pledged do not exceed outstanding
borrowings), we will not be able to borrow under the facility. If our cash flow is worse than
expected due to an economic recession, work stoppages, increased pension
contributions or otherwise, or if we are unable to borrow under our credit facilities or
otherwise for these purposes, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our
indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise
additional capital. We may not be able to implement one or more of these alternatives on terms
acceptable to us, or at all. The terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict
us from pursuing any of these alternatives. Should our cash flow be worse than anticipated or
we fail to achieve any of these alternatives, this could materially adversely affect our ability
to repay our indebtedness and otherwise have a substantial adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. For further information on our liquidity and capital
resources, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 15 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements.


Substantial levels of Automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial condition or
preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations (which may grow because we are able to incur
substantially more debt, including additional secured debt). As a result of our recent
financing actions and our other debt, we are a highly leveraged company. Our significant
Automotive debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following:
our high level of indebtedness could make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with
respect to our outstanding indebtedness; our ability to obtain additional financing for working
capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, if any, or general corporate purposes may be
impaired; we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on
our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes;
and our high level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse
developments in our business. The more leveraged we become, the more we become exposed to the
risks described herein. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 15 of the Notes
to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding our indebtedness.


23




Table of Contents



ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)



Inability of Ford Credit to access debt or securitization markets around the world at
competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise. The lowering of credit ratings for Ford and Ford
Credit has increased borrowing costs and caused Ford Credit’s access to the unsecured debt
markets to become more restricted. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of
securitization and other sources of liquidity. Over time, and particularly in the event of any
further credit rating downgrades or a significant decline in the demand for the types of
securities it offers, Ford Credit may need to reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or
originates. A significant reduction in the amount of receivables Ford Credit purchases or
originates would significantly reduce ongoing profits and could adversely affect Ford Credit’s
ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles. For additional discussion, see “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Liquidity and Capital Resources.”


Higher-than-expected credit losses. Credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer’s or
dealer’s failure to make payments according to contract terms. Credit risk (which is heavily
dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal
income growth, dealer profitability and used car prices) has a significant impact on Ford
Credit’s business. The level of credit losses Ford Credit may experience could exceed its
expectations. For additional discussion regarding credit losses, see “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting
Estimates.”


Increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share
of financing Ford vehicles. No single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance
industry. Most of Ford Credit’s bank competitors in the United States use credit aggregation
systems that permit dealers to send, through a single standard system, retail credit
applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance
sources. This process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. In
addition, Ford Credit is facing increased competition on wholesale financing for Ford dealers.
Competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could adversely
affect Ford Credit’s profitability and the volume of its business.


Changes in interest rates. Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk, and the particular
market to which it is most exposed is U.S. dollar LIBOR. Ford Credit’s interest rate risk
exposure results principally from “re-pricing risk,’’ or differences in the re-pricing
characteristics of assets and liabilities. Any inability to adequately control this exposure
could adversely affect its business. For additional discussion of interest rate risk, see “Item
7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.”


      To limit the impact of interest rate changes, Ford Credit has entered into long-term
interest rate swaps with large notional balances, many of which are “receive-fixed, pay-float”
interest rate swaps. Such swaps increase in value to Ford Credit when interest rates decline,
and decline in value when interest rates rise. When interest rate swaps are not in designated
hedging relationships, changes in the fair values of these derivatives due to interest rate
movements can cause substantial earnings volatility.


Collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating
leases. After Ford Credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers
and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. Any disruption of its servicing
activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or
otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those
receivables and/or satisfy its customers.


Lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased
vehicles. Ford Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support
payments from Ford) and return volumes of the vehicles it leases. Actual proceeds realized by
Ford Credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the
amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. Among the factors
that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned,
economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety or reliability of the
vehicles. All of these, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect Ford
Credit’s profitability. For additional discussion regarding residual value, see “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical
Accounting Estimates.”


24




Table of Contents



ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)



New or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher
costs and/or additional financing restrictions. As a finance company, Ford Credit is highly
regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. In the United States,
its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state
and local laws and regulations, including the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, Equal Credit
Opportunity Act and Fair Credit Reporting Act. In some countries outside the United States,
Ford Credit’s subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other
things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. In many other locations, governmental authorities
require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. Efforts to comply
with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect the conduct
of its business. Additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints
that might impair its profitability.





ITEM 1B