ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)
     
     
    Worse-than-assumed
      economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g.,
      discount rates, investment returns, health care cost trends).
We
      sponsor plans to provide postretirement pension, health care and life insurance
      benefits for our retired employees. The measurement of our obligations, costs
      and liabilities associated with these benefits requires that we estimate the
      present values of projected future payments to all participants. We use many
      assumptions in calculating these estimates, including discount rates, investment
      returns on designated plan assets, health care cost trends, and demographic
      experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). To the extent that actual
      results are less favorable than our assumptions there could be a substantial
      adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For
      additional discussion of these assumptions, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion
      and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
    
    The
      discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches,
      recall campaigns or increased warranty costs. Meeting
      or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly, especially
      where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order
      to
      meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. Government safety
      standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle
      safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to
      recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard.
      Should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety defect or
      a
      noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles, the cost of such
      recall campaigns could be substantial. 
    
    Increased
      safety, emissions, fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation
      resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales
      restrictions.
      The
      worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial number of
      governmental regulations, which often differ by state, region and country.
      In
      the United States and Europe, for example, governmental regulation has arisen
      primarily out of concern for the environment, greater vehicle safety and a
      desire for improved fuel economy. Many governments regulate local product
      content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs,
      protecting domestic producers and influencing their balance of payments. The
      cost of complying with these requirements may be substantial. 
    
    Our
      ability to comply with CAFE or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends
      heavily on the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand. If
      consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance,
      and/or are feature-laden while regulatory standards are skewed toward vehicles
      that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic. Moreover,
      if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet
      average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions),
      the Company may not have adequate resources and time to make major product
      changes across most or all of its vehicle fleet. If significant increases in
      CAFE standards are imposed beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or
      if
      state greenhouse gas regulations are not overturned, we may be forced to take
      various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales
      volume and profits. For example, we may have to curtail production of certain
      vehicles such as family-size, luxury, and high-performance cars and full-size
      light-trucks; restrict offerings of selected engines and popular options; and/or
      increase market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and
      light-trucks in order to maintain compliance. See "Item 1. Governmental
      Standards" for additional discussion. 
    
    Unusual
      or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged
      defects in our products or otherwise.
      We spend
      substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental safety and other
      standards. However, compliance with governmental standards does not necessarily
      prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost
      and risk. For example, the preemptive effect of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
      Standards is often a contested issue in litigation, and some courts have
      permitted liability findings even where our vehicles comply with federal law.
      Furthermore, simply responding to litigation or government investigations of
      our
      compliance with regulatory standards requires significant expenditures of time
      and other resources. 
    
    A
      change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into
      long-term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed
      quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the
      seller ("take-or-pay contracts"). We
      have
      entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase
      a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. If
      our
      need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to
      purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller
      pursuant to the take-or-pay contract. We also have entered into a small number
      of long-term supply contracts for raw materials (for example, precious metals
      used in catalytic converters) that require us to purchase a fixed percentage
      of
      mine output. If our need for any of these raw materials were to lessen, or
      if a
      supplier's output of materials were to increase, we could be required to
      purchase more materials than we need.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          20
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
    
     
    ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (continued)
     
     
    Inability
      to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates
      or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or
      otherwise. 
      Recent
      lowering of credit ratings for Ford and Ford Credit has increased borrowing
      costs and caused Ford Credit's access to the unsecured debt markets to become
      more restricted. In response, Ford Credit has increased its use of
      securitization and other sources of liquidity. Over time, and particularly
      in
      the event of any further credit rating downgrades or a significant decline
      in
      the demand for the types of securities it offers, Ford Credit may need to reduce
      the amount of receivables it purchases. A significant reduction in the amount
      of
      purchased receivables would significantly reduce ongoing profits and could
      adversely affect Ford Credit's ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles.
      For
      additional discussion, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital
      Resources." 
    
    Higher-than-expected
      credit losses. 
      Credit
      risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make
      payments according to contract terms. Credit risk (which is heavily dependent
      upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden,
      personal income growth, dealer profitability and used car prices) has a
      significant impact on Ford Credit's business. The level of credit losses Ford
      Credit may experience could exceed its expectations. For additional discussion
      regarding credit losses, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis
      of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting
      Estimates."
    
    Increased
      competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase
      their
      share of financing Ford vehicles. No
      single
      company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. Some of Ford
      Credit's bank competitors in the United States have developed credit aggregation
      systems that permit dealers to send, through a single standard system, retail
      credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options
      offered by these finance sources. This process has resulted in greater
      competition based on financing rates. In addition, Ford Credit is facing
      increased competition from banks on wholesale financing for Ford dealers.
      Competition from such competitors may increase, which could adversely affect
      Ford Credit's profitability and the volume of its business. 
    
    Changes
      in interest rates.
      Ford
      Credit is exposed to interest rate risk, and the particular market to which
      it
      is most exposed is U.S. dollar LIBOR. Ford Credit's interest rate risk exposure
      results principally from "re-pricing risk,'' or differences in the re-pricing
      characteristics of assets and liabilities. Any inability to adequately control
      this exposure could adversely affect its business. For additional discussion
      of
      interest rate risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
      about
      Market Risk."
    
    Collection
      and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in
      operating leases.
      After
      Ford Credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers
      and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. Any disruption
      of
      its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain
      customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact
      on its ability to collect on those receivables and/or satisfy its customers.
      
    
    Lower-than-anticipated
      residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased
      vehicles. 
      Ford
      Credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support
      payments from Ford) of the vehicles it leases. Actual proceeds realized by
      Ford
      Credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be
      lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease
      transaction. Among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease
      vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the
      quality or perceived quality, safety or reliability of the vehicles. All of
      these, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect Ford
      Credit's profitability. For additional discussion regarding residual value,
      see
      "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
      of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates."
    
    New
      or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting
      in higher costs and/or additional financing
      restrictions. 
      As a
      finance company, Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities
      in
      the locations where it operates. In the United States, its operations are
      subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state
      and local laws and regulations, including the federal Truth-in-Lending Act,
      Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Credit Reporting Act. In some countries
      outside the United States, Ford Credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking
      institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital
      reserves. In many other locations, governmental authorities require companies
      to
      have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. Efforts to comply with
      these laws and regulations impose significant costs on Ford Credit, and affect
      the conduct of its business. Additional regulation could add significant cost
      or
      operational constraints that might impair its profitability. 
    
    Inability
      to implement the Way Forward plan. We
      believe that our ability to implement the Way Forward plan is very important
      to
      our future success. Any of the above or other factors that prevent us from
      executing the Way Forward plan ultimately could have a substantially adverse
      impact on our business. For additional discussion of the Way Forward plan,
      see
      "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
      of Operations - Overview."
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          21
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
    
     
    ITEM
      1B.   Unresolved
      Staff Comments
    
    The
      information in Item 1B