Item 1A. Risk Factors'. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any such statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date.1Table of ContentsPRESENTATION OF DOLLAR AMOUNTSAll dollar amounts in this Form 10-K are presented in thousands, except for share and per share information or unless otherwise noted.STOCK SPLITAll information contained in this Form 10-K reflects the two-for-one stock split in 2011.2Table of ContentsPART IITEM 1.BUSINESSNote – Information in this section is as of year end unless otherwise noted. The year end is typically December 31, 2015 unless additional years are included or noted.Fastenal Company (together with our subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as Fastenal or the Company or by terms such as we, our, or us) began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968. We have 2,622 store locations. The various geographic areas in which we operate these store locations are summarized later in this document.We employ 20,746 people. We characterize these personnel as follows: 20152014Store and Onsite13,96112,293Non-store selling1,5661,349  Selling subtotal15,52713,642Distribution3,4593,120Manufacturing662630Administrative1,0981,025  Non-selling subtotal5,2194,775Total20,74618,417We sell industrial and construction supplies to end-users (typically business-to-business), and also have some 'walk-in' retail business. These industrial and construction supplies are grouped into twelve product lines described later in this document.We operate 14 distribution centers in North America from which we distribute products to our store and Onsite locations. Eleven of these are in the United States, two are in Canada, and one is in Mexico.Our Internet address for corporate and investor information is www.fastenal.com. The information contained on this website or connected to this website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report.Development of the BusinessWe began in 1967 with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded fasteners to customers in small, medium-sized, and, in subsequent years, large cities. We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer our customers a full line of products at convenient locations and to the high quality of our employees.We opened our first store in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a population today of approximately 27,000. The following table shows our consolidated net sales for each fiscal year during the last ten years and the number of our store locations at the end of each of the last ten years: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006Net sales (in millions)$3,869.2 3,733.5 3,326.1 3,133.6 2,766.9 2,269.5 1,930.3 2,340.4 2,061.8 1,809.3Number of stores2,622 2,637 2,687 2,652 2,585 2,490 2,369 2,311 2,160 2,0003Table of ContentsWe operated the following number of store locations:    2015 2014North AmericaUnited States 2,320 2,336 Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic 8 8 Canada 200 202 Mexico 47 44 Subtotal 2,575 2,590Central & South AmericaPanama, Brazil, Colombia, and Chile 9 9AsiaChina and India 10 10Southeast AsiaSingapore, Malaysia, and Thailand 7 7EuropeThe Netherlands, Hungary, United Kingdom, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, Romania, Poland, and Sweden 20 20AfricaSouth Africa 1 1Total  2,622 2,637      We select new locations for our stores based on their proximity to our distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for manufacturing and construction. In 2015, 2014, and 2013, we opened new stores at a rate of approximately 2%, 1%, and 2%, respectively. We also closed or consolidated certain stores in 2015, 2014, and 2013, which resulted in a net decrease in store locations in the last two years. We expect to open 60 to 75 stores in 2016, which is an annual rate of 2% to 3%, and to continue to close or consolidate stores as the need arises.We stock all new stores with inventory drawn from all of our product lines. Subsequent to a new opening, district and store personnel may supplement the inventory offering to customize the selection to the needs of our local customer base.We currently have several versions of selling locations. The first type of selling location – a Fastenal store location – is either (1) a ‘traditional’ store, which services a wide variety of customers and stocks a wide selection of the products we offer or (2) an ‘overseas’ store, which focuses on manufacturing customers and on the fastener product line (this is the type of store format we typically have outside the United States and Canada).In addition to the Fastenal store type discussed above, we also operate strategic account stores, strategic account sites, and Onsite locations. A strategic account store is a unique location that sells to multiple large customers in a market. Because this location sells to multiple customers, it is included in our store count. A strategic account site is essentially the same, but it typically operates out of an existing store location, rather than a unique location; therefore it is not included in our store count. An Onsite location is a selling unit located in or near a customer’s facility that sells product solely to that customer. Onsite locations are not included in our store count numbers as they represent a customer subset of an existing store.We currently believe, based on the demographics of the marketplace in North America, there is sufficient potential in this geographic area to support at least 3,500 total stores. Many of the new store locations may be in cities in which we currently operate. While we believe there is sufficient potential in North America for 3,500 total stores, or approximately 900 more than today, we have slowed our store openings in recent years and instead have increased our investments in other growth drivers such as people (both inside and outside our stores), industrial vending, and end-market growth investments. This allows us to maintain an aggressive offense where competitors are investing for growth, and to maintain a steady offense where competitors aren't investing - namely store openings. Fastenal has not operated outside of North America long enough to assess the market potential of those markets.4Table of ContentsWe opened the following stores in the last five years:  2015 2014 2013 2012 2011North AmericaUnited States32 10 30 58 101 Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic— — — — — Canada4 4 10 13 11 Mexico3 3 5 2 1 Subtotal39 17 45 73 113Central & South AmericaPanama, Brazil, Colombia, and Chile1 1 4 1 1AsiaChina and India1 2 — — 3Southeast AsiaSingapore, Malaysia, and Thailand— — — 2 —EuropeThe Netherlands, Hungary, United Kingdom, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, Romania, Poland, and Sweden— 3 4 4 5AfricaSouth Africa— 1 — — —Total 41 24 53 80 122We plan to open additional stores outside of the United States in the future. The stores located outside the United States contributed approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in 2015, with approximately 52% of this amount attributable to our Canadian operations.No assurance can be given that any of the expansion plans described above will be achieved, or that new store locations, once opened, will be profitable.It has been our experience that near-term profitability has been adversely affected by the opening of new store locations. This adverse effect is due to the start-up costs and the time necessary to generate a customer base. A new store generates its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated contacts. As a result of this process, sales volume builds slowly and it typically requires at least ten to twelve months for a new store to achieve its first profitable month. Of the two stores opened in the first quarter of 2015, one was profitable in the fourth quarter of 2015.5Table of ContentsThe data in the following table shows the change in the average sales of our stores from 2014 to 2015 based on the age of each store. The stores opened in 2015 contributed approximately $8,745 (or approximately 0.2%) of our consolidated net sales in 2015, with the remainder coming from stores opened prior to 2015 or from our non-store business.Age of Stores onDecember 31, 2015YearOpened Number ofStores in Groupon December31, 2015 Closed Stores(1) Converted Stores(2) AverageMonthlySales2015(3)  AverageMonthlySales2014(3)  PercentChange0-1 year old2015 41 0/0 0/0 $18(4)  N/A  —1-2 years old2014 22 2/0 0/0 106  37(4)  186.5 %2-3 years old2013 48 3/0 -2/0 100  90  11.1 %3-4 years old2012 70 5/3 0/0 93  88  5.7 %4-5 years old2011 109 4/8 0/-1 94  96  -2.1 %5-6 years old2010 108 7/7 -1/0 104  96  8.3 %6-7 years old2009 57 4/4 -1/0 149  146  2.1 %7-8 years old2008 132 6/9 -2/0 92  93  -1.1 %8-9 years old2007 141 3/8 0/0 104  104  0.0 %9-10 years old2006 217 2/12 0/0 105  102  2.9 %10-11 years old2005 202 3/6 0/0 97  95  2.1 %11-12 years old2004 205 3/4 0/0 110  109  0.9 %12-16 years old2000-2003 483 2/6 0/-1 119  115  3.5 %16+ years old1967-1999 787 6/6 0/1 163  158  3.2 %(1) We closed 50 stores and 73 stores in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The number of closed stores is noted in the table above as 2015 number/2014 number. (2) We converted six store locations to non-store selling locations in 2015. We converted two store locations to non-store selling    locations, and one non-store selling location to a store in 2014. The number of converted stores is noted in the table above as 2015 number/2014 number, with store locations converted to non-store locations shown as negative numbers. (3) Included in the average monthly sales amounts are sales from our non-store selling locations, such as our Holo-Krome®  business (included in the 2009 group, the year it was acquired). (4) The average sales include sales of stores open for less than the full fiscal year.Several years ago, we introduced our industrial vending offering and it has been an expanding component of our business. We believe industrial vending is the next logical chapter in the Fastenal story and also believe it has the potential to be transformative to industrial distribution, both because of its benefits to our customers such as reduced consumption, reduced purchase orders, reduced product handling, and 24-hour product availability, and its benefits to us in that it allows us to strengthen our relationships with our customers and streamline the supply chain. We believe we have a 'first mover' advantage in industrial vending and are investing to maximize this advantage. We operate eleven regional distribution centers in the United States – Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, and Kansas, and three outside the United States – Ontario, Canada; Alberta, Canada; and Nuevo Leon, Mexico. These 14 distribution centers give us approximately 3.4 million square feet of distribution capacity. These distribution centers are located so as to permit twice-a-week to five times-a-week deliveries to our stores using our trucks and overnight delivery by surface common carrier. As the number of stores increases, we intend to add new distribution centers. The distribution centers in Indiana and California also serve as a 'master' hub to support the needs of the stores in their geographic region as well as provide a broader selection of products for the stores serviced by the other distribution centers.We currently operate our Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, California, and Ontario, Canada distribution centers with 'automated storage and retrieval systems' or ASRS. These eight distribution centers operate with greater speed and efficiency, and currently handle approximately 81% of our picking activity. The Indiana facility also contains our centralized replenishment facility for a portion of our industrial vending business. This operation is also highly automated. Construction of an ASRS has begun at our North Carolina distribution center, and we intend to invest in this type of ASRS distribution infrastructure over the next several years at our Washington and Kansas distribution centers.Our information systems department develops, implements, and maintains the computer based technology used to support business functions within Fastenal. Corporate, e-business, and distribution center systems are primarily supported from central locations, while each store uses a locally installed Point-Of-Sale (POS) system. The systems consist of both customized and purchased software. A dedicated Wide Area Network (WAN) is used to provide connectivity between systems and authorized users.6Table of ContentsTrademarks and Service MarksWe conduct business under various trademarks and service marks, and we utilize a variety of designs and tag lines in connection with each of these marks, including First In Fasteners®. Although we do not believe our operations are substantially dependent upon any of our trademarks or service marks, we consider the ‘Fastenal’ name and our other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to our business.ProductsOur original product offerings were fasteners and other industrial and construction supplies, many of which are sold under the Fastenal® product name. This product line, which we refer to as the fastener product line, consists of two broad categories: threaded fasteners, such as bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related washers; and miscellaneous supplies and hardware, such as various pins and machinery keys, concrete anchors, metal framing systems, wire rope, strut, rivets, and related accessories.Threaded fasteners are used in most manufactured products and building projects, and in the maintenance and repair of machines and structures. Many aspects of the threaded fastener market are common to all cities. Variations from city to city that do exist typically relate to the types of businesses operating in a market or to the environmental conditions in a market. Therefore, we open each store with a broad selection of base stocks of inventory and then encourage the local store and district leaders to tailor the additional inventory to the local market demand as it develops.Threaded fasteners accounted for approximately 90% of the fastener product line sales in 2015, 2014, and 2013 and approximately 34%, 36%, and 38% of our consolidated net sales in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.Since 1993, we have added additional product lines. These product lines are sold through the same distribution channel as the original fastener product line, and more recently portions of our non-fastener product lines are also sold through industrial vending devices.Detailed information about our sales by product line is provided later in this document in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Each product line may contain multiple product categories. During the last several years, we have added 'private label' brands (we often refer to these as 'Fastenal brands') to our offering. These 'private label' brands represented approximately 12% of our total net sales in 2015. Most of these 'private label' products are in the non-fastener product lines.We plan to continue to add other products in the future.Inventory ControlOur inventory stocking levels are determined using our computer systems, our sales personnel at the store, district, and region levels, and our product managers. The data used for this determination is derived from sales activity from all of our stores, from individual stores, and from different geographic areas. It is also derived from vendor information and from customer demographic information. The computer system monitors the inventory level for all stock items and triggers replenishment, or prompts a buyer to purchase, as necessary, based on an established minimum-maximum level. All stores stock a base inventory and may expand beyond preset inventory levels as deemed appropriate by the district and store personnel. Inventories in distribution centers are established from computerized data for the stores served by the respective centers. Inventory quantities are continuously re-balanced utilizing an automated transfer mechanism we call ‘inventory re-distribution’.Manufacturing and Support Services OperationsIn 2015, approximately 95% of our consolidated net sales were attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards or to customer specific requirements. The remaining 5% related to products manufactured, modified or repaired by our manufacturing businesses or our support services. The manufactured products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners made to customers’ specifications or standard sizes manufactured under our Holo-Krome® and Cardinal Fasteners® product lines. The services provided by the support services group include, but are not limited to, items such as tool repair, band saw blade welding, and light manufacturing. We engage in these activities primarily as a service to our customers and expect these activities in the future to continue to contribute in the range of 4% to 6% of our consolidated net sales.7Table of ContentsSources of SupplyWe use a large number of suppliers for the standard stock items we distribute. Most items distributed by our network can be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more than 5% of our inventory purchases in 2015.Beyond inventory, we have some concentration of purchasing activity. For example, we utilize a limited number of suppliers for distribution equipment, two main suppliers for our vehicle fleet, and primarily one supplier for our industrial vending equipment. However, we believe there are viable alternatives to each of these, if necessary.Geographic InformationInformation regarding our revenues and long-lived assets by geographic location is set forth in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices, as well as sales at our foreign locations, could be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, changes in trade relations, or fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies.Customers and MarketingWe believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer customers a full line of quality products at convenient locations, and to the superior service orientation and expertise of our employees. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment manufacturers and maintenance, repair, and operations. The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. Other users of our products include farmers, truckers, railroads, oil exploration, production, and refinement companies, mining companies, federal, state, and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. During the fourth quarter of 2015, our total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having purchase activity within the last 90 days) was approximately 394,000, while our total 'core accounts' (defined as the average number of accounts each month with purchase activity of at least $250 per month) was approximately 100,000.In 2015, no one customer accounted for more than 5% of our sales. We believe that our large number of customers, together with the varied markets that they represent, provide some protection to us from economic downturns that are not across multiple industries and geographic regions. However, slumps in one industry served by us can rapidly spread to other interrelated industries, which can mute the benefit of this protection. Examples include the collapse of oil and other commodity prices, which has had a detrimental impact not only on customers in the oil and gas, agriculture, and mining industries, but also other industries, such as heavy equipment manufacturers, servicing these customers. This impact is compounded if it is a global rather than a regional issue.Direct marketing continues to be the backbone of our business through our local storefronts and selling personnel. We support our stores with multi-channel marketing including email and online marketing, print and radio advertising, catalogs, promotional flyers, events, and store signage. In recent years, our national advertising has been focused on NASCAR® sponsorships through our partnership with Roush Fenway Racing®. In 2015, we presented the Fastenal® brand to millions of Sprint Cup fans as the primary sponsor of Ricky Stenhouse Jr.’s No. 17 car. SeasonalitySeasonality has some impact on our sales. During the winter months, our sales to customers in the non-residential construction market typically slow due to inclement weather. Also, sales to our industrial production customers may decrease during the Fourth of July holiday period, the Thanksgiving holiday period (October in Canada and November in the United States), and the Christmas and New Year holiday period, due to plant shut-downs.CompetitionOur business is highly competitive. Competitors include large distributors located primarily in large cities, smaller distributors located in many of the same smaller markets in which we have stores, and on-line retailers. We believe the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products are customer service, price, convenience, product availability, and cost saving solutions.Some competitors use vans to sell their products in markets away from their main warehouses, while others rely on mail order, websites, or telemarketing sales. We, however, believe the convenience provided to customers by operating stores in small, medium, and large markets, each offering a wide variety of products, is a competitive selling advantage and the convenience of a large number of stores in a given area, taken together with our ability to provide frequent deliveries to such stores from centrally located distribution centers, facilitates the prompt and efficient distribution of products. We also believe our industrial vending, combined with our local storefront, provides a unique way to provide to our customers convenient access to products 8Table of Contentsand cost saving solutions using a business model not easily replicated by our competitors. Having trained personnel at each store also enhances our ability to compete (see ‘Employees’ below).Our Onsite service model provides a strategic advantage with our larger customers. Building on our core business strategy of the local store, the Onsite model provides customer value through a customized service model while giving us a stronger competitive advantage and customer relationship, all with a relatively low investment given the existing store and distribution structure.EmployeesWe employ a total of 20,746 full and part-time employees, most of whom are employed at a store location. A breakout of the number of employees, and their respective roles, is contained earlier in this document.We believe the quality of our employees is critical to our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to our ability to open new stores in new markets. We foster the growth and education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training programs and by decentralizing decision-making. Wherever possible, our goal is to ‘promote from within’. For example, most new store managers are promoted from an outside sales position and district managers (who supervise a number of stores) are usually former store managers.The Fastenal School of Business (our internal corporate university program) develops and delivers a comprehensive array of industry and company-specific education and training programs that are offered to our employees. Our school of business provides core curricula focused on key competencies determined to be critical to the success of our employees’ performance. In addition, we provide specialized educational tracks within various institutes of learning. These institutes of learning are advanced levels that provide specific concentrations of education and development and have been designed to focus on critical aspects of our business, such as leadership, effective store best practices, sales and marketing, product education, and distribution.Our sales personnel are compensated with a base salary and an incentive bonus arrangement that places emphasis on achieving increased sales on a store, district, and regional basis, while still attaining targeted levels of, among other things, gross profit and trade accounts receivable collections. As a result, a significant portion of our total employment cost varies with sales volume. We also pay incentive bonuses to our leadership personnel based on one or more of the following factors: sales growth, earnings growth (before and after taxes), profitability, and return on assets, and to our other personnel for achieving pre-determined departmental, project, and cost containment goals.None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe our employee relations are good.Available InformationOur annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our website at www.fastenal.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC.9Table of ContentsITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The most significant risks and uncertainties known to us which may cause the operating results to vary from anticipated results or which may negatively affect our operating results and profitability are as follows:Company RisksProducts that we sell may expose us to potential material liability for property damage, environmental damage, personal injury, or death linked to the use of those products by our customers. Some of our customers operate in challenging industries where there is a material risk of catastrophic events, and we are actively seeking to expand our sales to certain categories of customers (such as those in the aerospace industry) whose businesses entail heightened levels of that type of risk. If any of these events are linked to the use by our customers of any of our products, claims could be brought against us by those customers, by governmental authorities, and by third parties who are injured or damaged as a result of such events. In addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. While we maintain insurance coverage to mitigate a portion of this risk and may have recourse against our suppliers for losses arising out of defects in products procured from them, we could experience significant losses as a result of claims made against us to the extent adequate insurance is not in place, the products are manufactured by us or legal recourse against our suppliers is otherwise not available, or our insurers or suppliers are unwilling or unable to satisfy their obligations to us.Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of our information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although our information systems are protected with robust backup systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures, and other problems. In addition, certain software used by us is licensed from, and certain services related to our information systems are provided by, third parties who could choose to discontinue their relationship with us. If critical information systems fail or these systems or related software or services are otherwise unavailable, our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses, and maintain the security of Company and customer data could be adversely affected. Disruptions or failures of, or security breaches with respect to, our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations.In the event of a cyber security incident, we could experience certain operational problems or interruptions, incur substantial additional costs, or become subject to legal or regulatory proceedings, any of which could lead to damage to our reputation in the marketplace. In addition, compliance with cyber security laws, regulations, and standards could be difficult and costly, and failure to comply could expose us to legal risk. The nature of our business requires us to receive, retain, and transmit certain personally identifying information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. While we have taken and continue to undertake significant steps to protect our customer and confidential information and the functioning of our computer systems and website, a compromise of our data security systems or those of businesses we interact with, could result in information related to our customers or business being obtained by unauthorized persons or other operational problems or interruptions. We develop and update processes and maintain systems in an effort to try to prevent this from occurring, but the development and maintenance of these processes and systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Consequently, despite our efforts, the possibility of intrusion, interruption of our business, cyber security incidents and theft cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain. While we also seek to obtain assurances that third parties we interact with will protect confidential information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held or accessed by third parties may be compromised. If a compromise of our data security or in the function of our computer systems or website were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, subject us to additional legal, regulatory, and operating costs, and damage our reputation in the marketplace. In addition, our handling and use of personal information is regulated at the international, federal, and state levels. Privacy and information security laws, regulations, and standards such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard change from time to time, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary system changes and the development of new processes, and may be difficult to achieve. If we fail to comply with these laws, regulations, and standards, we could be subjected to legal risk.We may be unable to meet our goals regarding new store openings and other growth drivers of our business. Our growth is dependent primarily on our ability to attract new customers and increase our activity with existing customers. Historically, the most effective way to attract new customers has been opening new stores, although that has not been our primary growth driver in recent years. We expect to open new stores at the rate of approximately 2% to 3% in 2016; however, we cannot assure you that we can open stores at this rate and we may continue to close or consolidate stores as the need arises. In recent years we have devoted increased resources to other growth drivers, including our industrial vending and Onsite businesses, and our 10Table of Contentsnational accounts team. We have targeted the signing of 200 additional Onsite locations in 2016. While we believe this is achievable with some additional focus from our district managers and our national accounts team, this goal is aggressive and we cannot assure you that we can achieve it. Similarly, while we have taken steps to build momentum in our industrial vending business, we cannot assure you that those steps will lead to additional growth in that business. Failure to achieve any of our goals regarding new store openings, our industrial vending and Onsite businesses, or national accounts signings, could negatively impact our long-term sales growth. Our ‘pathway-to-profit’ strategy, the goal of which is to improve our pre-tax profit margins by growing the average annual sales of our stores, may prove unsuccessful on a long-term basis. In April 2007, we introduced our ‘pathway-to-profit’ strategy. That strategy involved slowing our annual new store openings and investing the funds saved by opening fewer stores in additional sales and sales leadership personnel. Under the 'pathway-to-profit' strategy, our goal is to increase our average annual sales per store, which would allow us to capture earnings leverage (by spreading operating and administrative expenses over higher sales) and grow our pre-tax profit margin. Our gross profit margin generally decreases as our average per store sales increase, as larger stores sell to larger customers whose more focused buying patterns merit better pricing. However, our operating and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net sales, typically improve as average per store sales grow. In most years the net effect is an increase in our pre-tax profit margin, as the relative improvement in operating and administrative expenses offsets the decrease in gross profit margin. A downturn in the economy or in the principle markets served by us or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified sales and sales leadership personnel could adversely impact our ability to continue to grow our average per store sales. In addition, greater than expected decreases in our gross profit margin resulting from changes in customer mix or other factors noted below, or the failure to control operating and administrative expenses to the degree necessary to offset expected decreases in our gross profit margin, could adversely impact our pre-tax profit margin even as average per store sales increase. The latter was evidenced in 2015 and 2014, when the improvement in our operating and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was not sufficient to counterbalance the decrease in our gross profit margin, due in part to our push to add more personnel and labor hours in our stores (2015 and 2014) and more district and regional leaders to better serve our stores (2014), and in part to rising miscellaneous expenses.Changes in customer or product mix, downward pressure on sales prices, and changes in volume of orders could cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline in the future. Changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline. From time to time, we have experienced changes in customer or product mix that have caused our gross profit percentage to deteriorate. For example, the portion of our sales attributable to fasteners has been decreasing in recent years. That has adversely affected our gross profit percentage as our non-fastener products generally carry lower gross profit margin than our fastener products. Also, as noted above, our strategy of growing our pre-tax profit margin by increasing our average annual sales per store has contributed to a drop in our gross profit percentage due to resulting changes in our customer mix. If our customer or product mix continues to change, our gross profit percentage may decline further. Downward pressure on sales prices and changes in the volume of our orders could also cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline. We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation, pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition, as was the case in 2009 and the latter half of 2013. Furthermore, reductions in our volume of purchases, as also happened in 2009 and the latter half of 2013, can adversely impact gross profit by reducing supplier volume allowances. During 2015, our gross profit continued to be impacted by changes in customer and product mix, the latter of which was amplified by a reduction in our customers' discretionary spending in the fourth quarter.The ability to identify new products and product lines, and integrate them into our store and distribution network, may impact our ability to compete and our sales and profit margins. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop product expertise at the store level and identify future products and product lines that complement existing products and product lines and that respond to our customers’ needs. We may not be able to compete effectively unless our product selection keeps up with trends in the markets in which we compete or trends in new products. In addition, our ability to integrate new products and product lines into our stores and distribution network could impact sales and profit margins.Our ability to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel to staff our stores could impact labor costs, sales at existing stores, and the rate of new store openings, and our ability to transition and retain key senior management may impact our business and financial results. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store managers, outside sales personnel, and other store associates, who understand and appreciate our culture and are able to adequately represent this culture to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the turnover rate in the industry is high. If we are unable to hire and retain personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture and product knowledge, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. An inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may also delay the planned openings of new stores and planned expansion of our other selling channels. Any such delays, material increases in employee turnover rates, or increases in labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. 11Table of ContentsOur success also depends on the efforts and abilities of certain key senior management and we have had some transition in our executive officers over the last couple of years. Difficulties in smoothly implementing that transition or the loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results.We may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors, which could harm our business and operating results. The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry, although consolidating, still remains a large, fragmented industry that is highly competitive. Our current or future competitors may include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources, and we believe they will continue to challenge us with their product selection, financial resources, and services. Increased competition from brick and mortar retailers in markets in which we have stores or from on-line retailers (particularly those major internet providers who can offer a wide range of products and rapid delivery), and the adoption by competitors of aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, could cause us to lose market share or reduce our prices or increase our spending, thus eroding our operating income.Our competitive advantage in our industrial vending business could be eliminated and the loss of key suppliers of equipment and services for that business could be disruptive. We believe we have a competitive advantage in industrial vending due to our vending hardware and software, our local store presence (allowing us to service machines more rapidly), our 'vendible' product depth, and, in North America, our distribution strength. These advantages have developed over time; however, other competitors could respond to our expanding industrial vending business with highly competitive platforms of their own. Such competition could negatively impact our ability to expand our industrial vending business or negatively impact the economics of that business. In addition, we currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for the vending machines used in, and certain software and services needed to operate, our industrial vending business. While these machines, software, and services can be obtained from other sources, loss of our current suppliers could be disruptive.We are required to disclose the use of 'conflict minerals' in certain of the products we distribute, which imposes costs on us and could raise reputational and other risks. The SEC has promulgated rules in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as 'conflict minerals', that are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. These rules have required and will continue to require due diligence and disclosure efforts. There are and will continue to be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine which of our products are subject to the rules and the source of any 'conflict minerals' used in those products. In addition, compliance with these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in those products. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the origins for all 'conflict minerals' used in products through the procedures we have implemented. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy customers that may require all of the components of products purchased to be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier.We may not be successful in integrating acquisitions and achieving intended benefits and synergies. We have completed several acquisitions of businesses, including, in 2015, our acquisition of certain assets of Fasteners, Inc., a regional industrial construction supply distributor with store locations in the states of Washington, Idaho, Oregon, and Montana. We expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions that we believe will either expand or complement our business in new or existing markets or further enhance the value and offerings we are able to provide to our existing or future potential customers. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including, among others, a risk of potential loss of key employees of an acquired business, and inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition, diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues, and risks related to the integration of the acquired business including unanticipated changes in our business, our industry, or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause us to not realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions.Industry and General Economic RisksA downturn in the economy or in the principal markets served by us and other factors may affect customer spending, which could harm our operating results. In general, our sales represent spending on discretionary items or consumption needs by our customers. This spending is affected by many factors, including, among others:•general business conditions,•business conditions in our principal markets,•interest rates,•inflation,•liquidity in credit markets,•taxation,•government regulations,•energy and fuel prices and electrical power rates,12Table of Contents•unemployment trends,•terrorist attacks and acts of war,•weather conditions, and•other matters that influence customer confidence and spending.A downturn in either the national or local economy where our stores operate, or in the principal markets served by us, or changes in any of the other factors described above, could negatively impact sales at our stores, sales through our other selling channels, and the level of profitability of those stores and other selling channels.This risk was demonstrated during recent years. As the economic condition in North America weakened significantly in the fall of 2008 and into 2009, our customers, which operate principally in various manufacturing, non-residential construction, and services sectors, experienced a pronounced slowdown that adversely impacted our sales and operating results in those periods. A lag in these sectors, even as the general economy improved, has continued to adversely impact our business. In a more recent example, 2015 saw a collapse in the price of oil. When oil companies make less money, they also spend less money. This cut-back had a ripple effect throughout not just the oil and gas industry, but also businesses catering to that industry, and resulted in a slowdown of our business with customers in those markets.Our current estimate for total store market potential in North America could be incorrect. One of our strategies is to grow our business through the introduction of stores into new and existing markets. Based on a snapshot of current marketplace demographics in the United States, Canada, and Mexico, we currently estimate there is potential market opportunity in North America to support approximately 3,500 stores, or approximately 900 more stores than we have today. This estimate is based on our business model today, and market changes such as industrial vending and the internet, or other types of e-business, could cause it to change. In addition, a particular local market’s ability to support a store may change because of a change in that market, a change in our store format, or the presence of a competitor’s store. We cannot guarantee that our market potential estimates are accurate or that we will decide to open stores to reach the full market opportunity. While we estimate we have the potential in North America for approximately 900 more stores than we have today, we have slowed our store openings in recent years and have focused instead on other growth drivers of our business.Changes in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our net sales, gross profit percentage, cost of goods, distribution expenses, and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating income. Costs of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel) and energy costs have fluctuated during the last several years. Increases in these costs result in increased production costs for our suppliers. These suppliers typically look to pass their increased costs along to us through price increases. The fuel costs of our distribution and store operations have fluctuated as well. While we typically try to pass increased supplier prices and fuel costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact, we may not be successful, particularly if supplier prices or fuel costs rise rapidly. Failure to fully pass any such increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating income. While increases in the cost of fuel or raw materials could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit margin to deteriorate, or by negatively impacting customers in certain industries, which could cause our sales to those customers to decline. This was evidenced in 2015, when our operating results were negatively impacted by a slow down in our business with customers associated with oil exploration, production, and refinement.Inclement weather and other disruptions to the transportation network could impact our distribution system and adversely impact demand for our products. Our ability to provide efficient distribution of core business products to our store network is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports, due to events such as the hurricanes of 2005 and 2012 and the longshoreman’s strike on the West Coast in 2002, may affect our ability to both maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products in particularly hard hit regions. This risk was felt in the first quarter of 2014 as our sales growth was hampered in January and February due to a severe winter in North America and its negative impact on our customers and our trucking network.We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk, and changes in foreign exchange rates could increase our costs to procure products and our foreign sales. Because the functional currency related to most of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. Fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies and their related currencies could impact our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices and our foreign sales. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the Canadian dollar.Products manufactured in foreign countries may cease to be available, which could adversely affect our inventory levels and operating results. We obtain certain of our products, and our suppliers obtain certain of their products, from China, Taiwan, South Korea, Mexico, and other foreign countries. Our suppliers could discontinue selling products manufactured in foreign countries at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control or our suppliers' control, including foreign government 13Table of Contentsregulations, domestic government regulations, political unrest, war, disruption or delays in shipments, changes in local economic conditions, or trade issues. Our operating results and inventory levels could suffer if we are unable to promptly replace a supplier who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with another supplier providing equally appealing products.Our business may be adversely affected by political gridlock in the United States. We primarily operate in the United States. During recent years there has been significant fiscal uncertainty in the country, the resolution of which has been impeded by political gridlock. We believe this has adversely impacted our business and could negatively impact our business in the future.The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry is consolidating, which could cause it to become more competitive and could negatively impact our business. The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry in North America is consolidating. This consolidation is being driven by customer needs and supplier capabilities, which could cause the industry to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by suppliers, or as competitors with new business models are willing and able to operate with lower gross profit on select products. Customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment and of the need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. We believe these customer needs could result in fewer suppliers as the remaining suppliers become larger and capable of being a consistent source of supply.There can be no assurance we will be able in the future to take advantage effectively of the trend toward consolidation. The trend in our industry toward consolidation could make it more difficult for us to maintain our current gross profit and operating income. Furthermore, as our industrial customers face increased foreign competition, and potentially lose business to foreign competitors or shift their operations overseas in an effort to reduce expenses, we may face increased difficulty in growing and maintaining our market share.Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms or increase the cost of existing or future financing. As of December 31, 2015, we had loans outstanding under our revolving credit facility of $350,000. Loans under the credit facility bear interest at a floating rate based on LIBOR. During periods of volatility and disruption in the U.S. credit markets, financing may become more costly and more difficult to obtain. Although the credit market turmoil of several years ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or borrowing costs given that we had not entered into our current credit facility or started borrowing material amounts until after that time, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased. If credit market volatility were to return, then obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of doing so could be higher than under our current facility. In addition, due to the floating interest rate provided for under our current credit facility, the cost of servicing loans under that facility could increase. Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to finance stock purchases, dividends, capital expenditures, and other liquidity needs on terms acceptable to us. For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the following sections below: Liquidity and Capital Resources under the heading 'Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations', 'Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk', and Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Investment RiskWe cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock purchase program. Although our board of directors has historically authorized the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock and indicated an intention to do so in the future, there are no assurances that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or continue to increase dividends at historic rates. In addition, although our board of directors has authorized share purchase programs and we have purchased shares in 2016, 2015, and in prior years through these programs, we may discontinue doing so at any time. Any decision to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, to increase those dividends, or to purchase our common stock in the future will be based upon our financial condition and results of operations, the price of our common stock, credit conditions, and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our board of directors.14Table of ContentsITEM 1B