. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion.8Table of ContentsSafford Our wholly owned Safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in Graham County, Arizona, approximately eight miles north of the town of Safford and 170 miles east of Phoenix. The site is accessible by paved county road off U.S. Highway 70.The Safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite.The property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathodes. The operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. The crushed ore is delivered to a single leach pad by a series of overland and portable conveyors. Leach solutions feed a SX/EW facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. A sulphur burner plant is also in operation at Safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in SX/EW operations. The available mining fleet consists of twenty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day.Safford’s copper production totaled 175 million pounds in 2012, 151 million pounds in 2011 and 143 million pounds in 2010.Safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. The Safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising approximately 21,000 acres of patented lands, approximately 3,950 acres of unpatented lands, and approximately 50 acres of land held by federal permit.The Safford operation’s electrical power is primarily sourced from Tucson Electric Power Company, Arizona Public Service Company and the Luna Energy facility. Although we believe the Safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Safford operation. Refer to . "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion.10Table of ContentsMiamiOur wholly owned Miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in Gila County, Arizona, approximately 90 miles east of Phoenix and six miles west of the city of Globe on U.S. Highway 60. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail.The Miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. Chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals.Since about 1915, the Miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. Current operations include leaching by the SX/EW process. The design capacity of the SX/EW plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. The available mining fleet consists of twenty 227-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 93,000 metric tons of material per day.Miami’s copper production totaled 66 million pounds in both 2012 and 2011, and 18 million pounds in 2010.Miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. The Miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising approximately 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and approximately 350 acres of unpatented mining claims.Miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Salt River Project and natural gas through long-term contracts with El Paso Natural Gas as the transporter. Although we believe the Miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Miami operation. Refer to . “Risk Factors.”El Abra15Table of ContentsWe own a 51 percent interest in El Abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile (CODELCO).El Abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of Calama in Chile’s El Loa province, Region II. The site is accessible by paved highway and by rail.The El Abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. The predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. There is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralizationas chalcocite. The oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. There are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite.The El Abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a SX/EW facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized ROM leaching operation. The available fleet consists of forty 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 223,000 metric tons of material per day.During 2011, we commenced production from El Abra’s sulfide ores. Production from the sulfide ore is replacing the depleting oxide copper production. El Abra’s copper production totaled 338 million pounds in 2012, 274 million pounds in 2011 and 320 million pounds in 2010.We are also engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation at El Abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. Exploration results at El Abra have identified a significant sulfide resource.El Abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. El Abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. In addition, El Abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer.El Abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with Electroandina. Water for our El Abra processing operations comes from pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. We believe El Abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see . “Risk Factors.”Ojos del SaladoWe have an 80 percent ownership interest in Ojos del Salado, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation.The Ojos del Salado operation began commercial production in 1929 and consists of two underground copper mines (Santos and Alcaparrosa) and a 3,800 metric ton-per-day concentrator. The operation is located approximately 10 miles east of Copiapó in northern Chile’s Atacama province, Region III, and is accessible by paved highway. The Ojos del Salado mines are iron oxide and copper and gold deposits. Primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite.The Ojos del Salado operation has a capacity of 3,800 metric tons per day of ore from the Santos underground mine and 4,000 metric tons of ore per day from the Alcaparrosa underground mine. The ore from both mines is mined by sublevel stoping since both the ore and enclosing rocks are competent. The broken ore is removed from the stopes using scoops and loaded into an available fleet of twenty-six 28-metric ton trucks, which transport the ore to the surface. The ore from the Santos mine is hauled directly to the Ojos del Salado mill for processing, and the ore from the Alcaparrosa mine is reloaded into six 54-metric ton trucks and hauled seven miles to the Candelaria mill for processing. The Ojos del Salado concentrator has the capacity to produce over 30 million pounds of copper and 9 thousand ounces of gold per year. Tailings from the Ojos del Salado mill are pumped to the Candelaria tailings facility for final deposition. The Candelaria facility has sufficient capacity for the remaining Ojos del Salado tailings.Ojos del Salado’s production totaled 53 million pounds of copper and 14 thousand ounces of gold in 2012, 58 million pounds of copper and 16 thousand ounces of gold in 2011, and 66 million pounds of copper and 17 thousand ounces of gold in 2010.Ojos del Salado is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest underground level is at an elevation of 500 meters above sea level, with the lowest underground level at 150 meters above sea level. The Ojos del Salado mineral rights encompass approximately 15,800 acres, which includes approximately 6,800 acres of owned land in and around the Ojos del17Table of ContentsSalado underground mines and plant site. The remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but is controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean law.Ojos del Salado receives electrical power through long-term contracts with AES Gener S.A. Ojos del Salado’s water supply comes from well fields in the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiapó that draw water from the Copiapó River aquifer. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see . “Risk Factors” for further discussion).The Miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our Arizona copper mines. Concentrate processed through the smelter totaled approximately 620,000 metric tons in 2012. In addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrates, the Miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our North America leaching operations.Major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) typically occur approximately every 14 months for the Miami smelter, with shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim.27Table of ContentsOTHER PROPERTIES AND INVESTMENTSRod & Refining Operations. Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in North America, including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut, and Miami, Arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper anode production from our Miami smelter at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at Miami. Our El Paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium.Molybdenum Conversion Facilities. We process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. We operate molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The conversion facility located at our Sierrita copper mine consists of two molybdenum roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a toll basis for third parties. The facility produces molybdenum oxide and related products. In addition, our Bagdad copper mine has a pressure leach plant that processes molybdenum concentrates. The Fort Madison facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphur dioxide conversion plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical conversion plant, which includes a wet-chemicals plant, sublimation equipment and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. In the chemical plant, molybdic oxide is further refined into various high-purity molybdenum chemicals for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. In addition to metallurgical oxide products, the Fort Madison facility produces ammonium dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum disulfide. The Rotterdam facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid plant, metallurgical packagingfacility and chemical conversion plant. The plant produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. Ammonium dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet-chemicals plant. We also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in Stowmarket, United Kingdom. The plant is operated both as an internal and external customer tolling facility.McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR).  MMR is engaged in the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico Shelf. In December 2010, we purchased 500,000 shares of MMR’s 5.75% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million (refer to Note 6 for further discussion). In connection with the purchase, we entered into a registration rights agreement and a stockholder agreement with MMR. Several of our directors and executive officers also serve as directors or executive officers of MMR, and our wholly owned subsidiary FM Services Company (FM Services) provides certain executive, technical administrative, accounting, financial, tax and other services to us and to MMR on a cost-reimbursement basis. Refer to Part III, Item 13. “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence,” for additional information. Also refer to Note 1 for discussion of FCX's proposed acquisition of MMR.SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALSOur copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. Energy represented approximately 21 percent of our 2012 consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately 255 million gallons of diesel fuel; 6,800 gigawatt hours of electricity at our North America, South America and Africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation); 700 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia; and 1 million MMBTU (million British thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. For 2013, we estimate energy costs will approximate 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs.28Table of ContentsSulphuric acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulphur burners at the Safford and Tenke mines. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties.Our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to . "Risk Factors" for further information on labor agreements. LocationNumber of UnionsNumber ofUnion-Represented EmployeesExpiration Date  PT Freeport Indonesia – Indonesia18,774September 2013  Tenke Fungurume – DRC63,216August 2013a  Cerro Verde – Peru21,674August 2014  El Abra – Chile2969May 2016  Candelaria – Chile2908December 2016  Atlantic Copper – Spain2422December 2011b  Chino – New Mexico1344November 2014  Rotterdam – The Netherlands257March 2015  Bayway – New Jersey140April 2013  Aurex – Chile141December 2013  Stowmarket – United Kingdom139May 2014 a.  In September 2012, TFM negotiated a 4-year salary scale with union-represented employees.  b.  Negotiations are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of the expired contract.29Table of ContentsENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERSThe cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to . “Risk Factors” for further discussion.South America. Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. Following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, Cerro Verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve Arequipa. In addition, an agreement was reached with the Peruvian government for development of a water storage and distribution network, which was financed by the Cerro Verde Civil Association (the Association). The Association manages contributions made by Cerro Verde for projects that focus on education, training, health, cultural preservation and basic infrastructure. In 2011, Cerro Verde reached agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, SEDAPAR and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant for Arequipa, should Cerro Verde proceed with plans for the large-scale expansion. Treating this water would improve the Rio Chili's water quality, enhance agriculture products grown in the area and reduce waterborne illnesses. Additionally, during 2006, the Peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in Peru would be required to make annual contributions to local development funds for a five-year period (covering the years 2006 through 2010) when copper prices exceeded certain levels that were adjusted annually. The contribution, which expired in 2010, was equal to 3.75 percent of after-tax profits. 30Table of ContentsIndonesia. In 1996, PT Freeport Indonesia established the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development (the Partnership Fund), through which PT Freeport Indonesia has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. PT Freeport Indonesia has committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the Partnership Fund. Our share of contributions to the Partnership Fund totaled $39 million in 2012, $50 million in 2011 and $64 million in 2010.The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pembangunan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoro or LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of PT Freeport Indonesia on each board. The Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations.Security Matters. Consistent with our COW in Indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As part of its security program, PT Freeport Indonesia maintains its own internal security department, which is unarmed and performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. The security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy.PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $52 million for 2012, $37 million for 2011 and $28 million for 2010.PT Freeport Indonesia, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the Indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals district has been designated by the Indonesian government as one of Indonesia’s vital national assets. This designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. The Indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations.From the outset of PT Freeport Indonesia’s operations, the Indonesian government has looked to PT Freeport Indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in Papua. PT Freeport Indonesia’s financial support for the Indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, betterensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol PT Freeport Indonesia’s roads and secure its operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT Freeport Indonesia’s obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights.PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of support costs for the government-provided security was $22 million in 2012, and $14 million for each of the years 2011 and 2010. This supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police.Refer to . Risk Factors. This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of United States (U.S.) federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, mine production and development plans, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities and expenditures, litigation contingencies and results, future dividend payments, reserve estimates, risks associated with the completion of pending acquisitions, and anticipated political, economic and social conditions in our areas of operations. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following.Financial risksExtended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and/or molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. Fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or molybdenum can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and common stock.Our financial results vary with fluctuations in metal market prices, including copper, gold and molybdenum (for further information about the market prices of these commodities, refer to discussion below and in Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). An extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could adversely affect our financial results, or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities.Additionally, if market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. We may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses.Substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) monthly average spot copper prices. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs.Copper prices have fluctuated historically, with LME spot copper prices ranging from a low of $2.76 to a high of $4.60 per pound during the three years ended December 31, 2012. Copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:•The strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world;•Available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories;•Sales by holders and producers of copper;•Demand for industrial products containing copper;•Investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity;•The availability and cost of substitute materials; and•Currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar.42Table of ContentsGold prices have also fluctuated historically, with the London PM gold price ranging from a low of $1,058 to a high of $1,895 per ounce during the three years ended December 31, 2012. Gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:•The strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China and India;•Global or regional political or economic crises;•The relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar and other currencies;•Expectations with respect to the rate of inflation;•Interest rates;•Purchases and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other holders;•Demand for jewelry containing gold; and•Investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity.Molybdenum prices also fluctuate, with the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price ranging from a low of $10.90 to a high of $18.60 per pound during the three years ended December 31, 2012. Molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:•The worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply;•Rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel;•The volume of molybdenum produced as a by-product of copper production;•Inventory levels;•Currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar; and•Production costs of U.S. and foreign competitors.Under U.S. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we generally are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies may also seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent state regulations. The failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us.We are required by U.S. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. These laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance. EPA and state agencies may also seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under CERCLA or equivalent state regulations. In July 2009, EPA published a Priority Notice of Action identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements consistent with the degree and duration of risk associated with the production, transportation, treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous substances. In EPA's semi-annual regulatory agenda published on January 8, 2013, EPA indicated that it intends to propose regulations regarding hardrock mining financial responsibility in May 2014. It is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations.43Table of ContentsThe amount of financial assurance we are required to provide will vary with changes in laws, regulations and reclamation and closure requirements and cost estimates. As of December 31, 2012, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs totaled $970 million, of which $601 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. Our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on our ability to meet financial tests. Certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state-approved ratings service. We are currently rated investment grade by Standard & Poor's Rating Services (S&P), Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investors Service (Moody's). If we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these more rigorous tests, in which case the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. Depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. Issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. Failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. As of December 31, 2012, we had limited financial assurance obligations associated with CERCLA-related remediation obligations, although EPA and certain states are increasing the use of financial assurance requirements for such obligations. For additional information and for discussion of mine closure laws impacting our international operations, refer to the environmental risk factor "Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations."Movements in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results.The functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol, euro and South African rand. Generally, our results are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Refer to Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs.From time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange. However, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations.International risksOur international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries.We are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the U.S. We conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Peru, Chile and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. Such risks include:•Renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts,•Expropriation or nationalization of property, •Changes in a foreign country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, •Political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, •Foreign exchange controls, and •The risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. 44Table of ContentsOur insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. Accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the U.S. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Our international operations must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. There has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws. Although we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of violations of such laws, any violation could result in significant criminal or civil sanctions. We are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax matters with the Indonesian and Peruvian tax authorities (refer to Note 13 for further discussion of these matters).Because our Grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in Indonesia.Indonesia has faced political and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. In particular, several separatist groups are opposing Indonesian rule over the province of Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. In response, Indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective January 1, 2001. The manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social, economic and political instability in Papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities.Maintaining a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among Indonesia's most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a Contract of Work (COW) with the Indonesian government. Partially because of their significance to Indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the Indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. Between July 2009 and February 15, 2013, there were 37 shooting incidents in and around the Grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 57injuries. The investigation of these matters is continuing. We have taken precautionary measures, including limiting the use of the roads to secured convoys. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. Prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. The safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and PT Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the Indonesian government to address security issues.During 2011, PT Freeport Indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in July 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in December 2011. The strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. Additionally, during first-quarter 2012, PT Freeport Indonesia experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations and temporarily suspended operations.Large numbers of illegal miners have continued to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in PT Freeport Indonesia's government-approved tailings management area. The illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. In 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the Grasberg mine and mill in protest, and PT Freeport Indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. We cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our Indonesian operations.  If additional violence or other disruptive incidents occur, it could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time.45Table of ContentsWe will not mine all of our ore reserves in Indonesia before the initial term of our COW expires.PT Freeport Indonesia is entitled to mine in Indonesia under its COW with the Indonesian government. The initial term of the current COW expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Our proven and probable ore reserves in Indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current COW, and there can be no assurance that the Indonesian government will approve the extensions. Prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 28 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at December 31, 2012, representing 34 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia's share of recoverable copper reserves and 46 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves.We have had discussions with the Indonesian government regarding the implications of the 2009 mining law, and are working cooperatively to complete the government's contract of work evaluation process and to obtain an extension of the COW beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the COW (refer to Part I, Items 1 and 2., "Business and Properties - Mines, Indonesia" for further discussion). The outcome of these discussions may result in revisions to certain terms of the COW.Our COWs in Indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel.PT Freeport Indonesia's COW and other COWs in which we have an interest were entered into under Indonesia's 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. Our COWs can be terminated by the Indonesia government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements.Certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our COW. Although our COW grants to PT Freeport Indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the COW, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on PT Freeport Indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements.  At times, certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the Indonesian government prior to May 1998 (i.e., during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including PT Freeport Indonesia's COW, which was signed in December 1991. We cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the COWs will not be challenged for political or other reasons. PT Freeport Indonesia's COW and our other COWs require that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. Accordingly, if a dispute arises under the COWs, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory.The Tenke Fungurume minerals district is located in the Katanga province of the DRC, and may be adversely affected by security risks and political, economic and social instability in the DRC.During 2009, we completed construction activities and commenced copper and cobalt production at the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) mine located in the DRC. Since gaining independence in 1960, the DRC has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crises. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. As part of a review of all mining contracts by the Ministry of Mines (the Ministry) in the DRC, in February 2008, we received notification that the Ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L.'s (TFM) mining concessions. In October 2010, the DRC government concluded its review of TFM's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. In connection with the review, TFM made several commitments that were reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in December 2010, approved by a ministerial council in March 2011, and a Presidential Decree was issued in April 2011. In addition, effective March 26, 2012, the DRC government issued a Presidential Decree approving 46Table of Contentsmodifications to TFM's bylaws. Among other changes to the Amended and Restated Mining Convention (ARMC), FCX's effective ownership in TFM was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent.Political, economic, social and security risks in the DRC are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. These risks include legal and regulatory uncertainties; exposure to an environment of governmental corruption and bribery; attempts to increase taxes or claims for fees and penalties by governmental officials, including retroactive claims; security risks resulting from political instability in the DRC; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism.In addition to ongoing conflict in the eastern region of the DRC, there have been a limited number of reported acts of violence in the Katanga province where the Tenke Fungurme minerals district is located. The safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority, and TFM works cooperatively with government officials to address security issues; however, no assurance can be given that conflict or random acts of violence will not occur near or impact TFM's operations.Accordingly, the Tenke Fungurume minerals district and its future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our operating results, interrupt our operations or result in a loss of all or part of our investment in the DRC.Terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business.Refer to the international risk factor “Because our Grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in Indonesia” for more information about a series of shooting incidents near our Grasberg minerals district.In July 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels in Jakarta, Indonesia, that killed nine people and injured 53 others, including two of our Indonesia-based executives.In October 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in the Indonesian province of Bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. In September 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. In August 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia. In October 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in Bali. Indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. The same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. In November 2005, Indonesian police raided a house in East Java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. Our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but PT Freeport Indonesia's corporate office in Jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the Australian embassy. In addition to the Bali, JW Marriott Hotel and Australian embassy bombings, there have been anti-American demonstrations in certain sections of Indonesia reportedly led by radical Islamic activists.No assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. If there were to be additional terrorist incidents or acts of violence, particularly at or near our operations, there could be no assurance that the occurrence of such events would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.Operational risksOur business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business.Mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. These operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following:•Earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters;•The occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events;47Table of Contents•The failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations;•Accidents;•Wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines;•Interruption of energy supply;•Lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates;•Metallurgical and other processing problems;•Unanticipated ground and water conditions;•Adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and shortages of water to which we have rights;•Adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; •Delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits;•Delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; and•The inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage.Managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations also presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. We maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which must be monitored for structural stability and leakages; our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions; and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage. In Indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. The failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. Our business may also be impacted by information technology disruptions. Cybersecurity incidents, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. We have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. We believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology disruptions. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.Labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As further described in Part I, Items 1 and 2., “Business and Properties - Labor Matters,” we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at our operations. Labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning those issues will be concluded successfully. Our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more 48Table of Contentsof our operations. Additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected.During 2011, PT Freeport Indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in July 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in December 2011. The strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. Additionally, during first-quarter 2012, PT Freeport Indonesia experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations and temporarily suspended operations. In fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at Cerro Verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. The strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late December 2011.As of December 31, 2012, approximately 50 percent of our labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements, and approximately 35 percent of our labor force is covered by agreements that will expire within one year.If we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. Our operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Our operations in North and South America are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. At our North America operations, certain of our water supplies are supported by surface water rights, which give us the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. In Arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the Arizona courts have been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which affect four of our operating mines (Morenci, Safford, Sierrita and Miami). The legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our Bagdad mine. Groundwater has historically been treated differently from surface water under Arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. However, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that groundwater pumping may affect surface water, thereby bringing the pumping within the jurisdiction of the general stream adjudications. The effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water remains contested, however, and is currently a primary focus of one of those adjudications. Because groundwater accounts for approximately 40 percent of Arizona’s water supplies, the re-characterization of any significant portion of that water as surface water could jeopardize the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us, to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. Because we are a significant user of groundwater in Arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings.In Colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority and administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the Climax molybdenum mine. In New Mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated.Water for our Cerro Verde mining operation comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned Cerro Verde operations. Cerro Verde has been conducting water studies to assess opportunities for additional supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. Cerro Verde has reached an agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Arequipa S.A. (SEDAPAR) and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant, should Cerro Verde proceed with plans for a large-scale concentrator expansion. Once Cerro Verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion.49Table of ContentsWater for our El Abra mining operation comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer. In 2010, El Abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. We believe that El Abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations, however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our sulfide groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. El Abra is also conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. Water for our Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations is drawn from the Copiapó River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, Candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. During 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to convey reclaimed water from a nearby water treatment facility to our Candelaria mine. In addition, we have substantially completed the construction of a desalination plant and pipeline that will supply Candelaria’s longer term water needs.Although each of our operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, some supplies are subject to unresolved claims by others, and additional supplies that may be needed to support expanded operations are expensive, in short supply, and can be difficult to access because of logistical and legal obstacles. Moreover, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. The loss of a water right, loss of continued use of a currently available water supply, or inability to expand our water resources could materially and adversely affect our mining operations, by significantly increasing the cost of water, forcing us to curtail operations, preventing us from expanding operations or forcing premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations.Increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow.Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. For the year 2012, energy represented approximately 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. An inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. Our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires, explosives and diluents. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. Increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects.Also refer to the environmental risk factor “Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets” for discussion of the potential for increased energy costs.In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area.The Grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of Indonesia. Because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster.In April 2011, two PT Freeport Indonesia employees died in an accident when a portion of the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. The area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident.In September 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our Grasberg open pit. There were no injuries or property damage. The event caused a delay in our access to the 50Table of Contentshigh-grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods.In March 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting PT Freeport Indonesia's mining facilities. Three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. The material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. As a result of investigations by PT Freeport Indonesia and the Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. The existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded.In October 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the Grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. In December 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. The events caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans; normal production activities resumed in second-quarter 2004.No assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future.In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Africa mining operation involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the DRC.The Tenke Fungurume minerals district is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to additional challenges, including:•Severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance;•Limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained;•Challenges in obtaining experienced personnel;•Security risks; and•Limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria, cholera and HIV.Additionally, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the Tenke mines approximately 1,900 miles to ports in South Africa. The Tenke Fungurume minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development.The volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. Our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Age of 1934, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. Estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth or our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. In addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. A sustained decrease in commodity prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. These factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. There are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from mill and leach stockpiles. The quantity of copper delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated 51Table of Contentscopper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. Accordingly, the volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and copper recovered from stockpiles may be less than anticipated.We must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries.Our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability. Produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. Exploration is highly speculative in nature. Our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. Development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and estimated future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can adversely affect project economics. Moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. Therefore, it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. Refer to Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion of our current development projects.New development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. These development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. It is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in capital expenditures. The development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following:•Unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; •Challenges related to hiring and training personnel required for underground mining activities; •Larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and •Unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods.  Some of these risks could result in delays to production startup and a loss or reduction in minable tons. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 52Table of ContentsEnvironmental risksOur operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulation. Compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain our expansion opportunities.Our mining, development, exploration and production activities, both in the U.S. and internationally, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing occupational health, mine safety, generation, transportation and disposal of hazardous toxic substances, waste disposal, air emissions and water discharges, remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. For example, under the Clean Air Act, EPA recently lowered the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for sulfur dioxide. The area around our smelter in Miami, Arizona, has sulfur dioxide levels in excess of the new standard, and the smelter is the primary contributor to those levels. As a result, we will be required to limit the smelter’s operations or install expensive pollution control equipment that will significantly reduce those emissions. Additionally, any expansion of the smelter will be constrained by, or be significantly more expensive because of, these new standards.In addition, EPA has recently proposed rules that, if effective, would reclassify some mineral processing  materials  as “hazardous waste” under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which would reverse long-standing EPA regulatory determinations and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements.We also believe there has generally been more aggressive application of the Endangered Species Act, resulting in increases in the number of protected species and expansive designations of their critical habitat, which may make obtaining federal permits and securing additional water resources more time-consuming, unpredictable and expensive.Other regulation under consideration by environmental regulatory agencies include provisions that would impose additional restrictions on waterway discharges, and regulate environmental impacts of radioactive materials associated with mining operations and expand regulation of solid wastes, among other things.Adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs and constrain our U.S. expansion opportunities. In addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years.Freeport-McMoRan Corporation (FMC), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the U.S. for more than a century. Activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before American industrial companies understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. With the passage of CERCLA in 1980, companies like FMC became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. That liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. As a result, because of our acquisition of FMC in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the U.S., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. We are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. At December 31, 2012, we had more than 100 active remediation projects (including damaged natural resource claims) in the U.S. in 28 states.53Table of ContentsAt December 31, 2012, we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to CERCLA or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. Our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: •Our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago; •Our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and •Our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. Significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. The actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. In addition, remediation standards imposed by EPA and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time. For example, in some cases, EPA has applied increasingly costly requirements regarding remediation of contaminated water bottom sediments. Continued application of these types of standards could have an adverse impact on our ultimate cleanup costs at the Newtown Creek site in New York City. Additionally, imposition of more stringent remediation standards poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of our environmental obligations.During 2012, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $612 million, compared with $387 million in 2011 and $372 million in 2010. For 2013, we expect to incur approximately $600 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. The timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs.An adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us.As described in Note 13, we are a defendant in numerous, and in some cases significant, litigation matters involving alleged environmental contamination, alleged environmental toxic torts and complex interpretations of environmental regulations. An adverse ruling in one or more of those matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.Our Indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs.Mining operations on the scale of our Indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the Indonesian government, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. Lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands.54Table of ContentsAnother major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. In the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment.From time to time, certain Indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. Because our Indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical.In connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the Indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. We completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the Indonesian government in December 2002. We developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the Indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. The risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents.Since 2005, PT Freeport Indonesia has participated in the Indonesian government's PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating) program. The last PROPER audit where the Indonesian Ministry of Environment issued PT Freeport Indonesia a rating was in 2010, for which a Blue rating was issued acknowledging PT Freeport Indonesia's environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in Indonesia. In 2011, a PROPER audit of PT Freeport Indonesia was performed, however the Indonesian Ministry of Environment did not issue a rating for PT Freeport Indonesia. A PROPER audit of PT Freeport Indonesia was not performed in 2012 because of security conditions that existed.Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. Our U.S. operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. These requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. In general, our U.S. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. It is uncertain how potential EPA requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. In July 2011, the Chilean senate passed legislation regulating mine closure, which became effective November 2012 and established new requirements for closure plans. Our Chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. Revised closure plans for our Chilean mine sites are due in November 2014.Cerro Verde is subject to regulation under the Mine Closure Law administered by the Peruvian Ministry of Energy and Mines. Under the closure regulations, mines must submit a closure plan that includes the reclamation methods, closure cost estimates, methods of control and verification, closure and post-closure plans and financial assurance. The updated closure plan for the Cerro Verde mine expansion must be submitted to the Peruvian regulatory authorities in December 2013.In December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia submitted its revised mine closure plan to the Department of Energy and Minerals Resources for review and has addressed comments received during the course of this review process. In December 2010, the President of Indonesia issued a regulation regarding mine reclamation and closure, which requires a company to provide a mine closure guarantee in the form of a time deposit placed in a state-owned bank in Indonesia. In accordance with its COW, PT Freeport Indonesia is working with the Department of Energy and 55Table of ContentsMineral Resources to review these requirements, including discussions of other options for the mine closure guarantee.We cannot predict at this time the cost of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required, which amounts could be substantial. At December 31, 2012, we had asset retirement obligations (AROs) of $1.1 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. ARO cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion.Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets.Many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, contribute to climate change. In 2012, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately 10 million metric tons, divided between direct (59 percent) and indirect (41 percent) emissions. Most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. Indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. Our direct emissions are in Indonesia (54 percent), North America (28 percent), South America (11 percent), and Europe and Africa (7 percent). Our indirect emissions are in North America (73 percent), South America (24 percent) and Europe (3 percent).  A number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In June 2010, the EPA issued final regulations under the Clean Air Act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. This and other federal greenhouse gas regulations have been challenged in judicial proceedings. Certain of our operations, including the Miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations if plant expansions exceed applicable thresholds. In addition, anticipated future EPA regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. The U.S. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our U.S. operations. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that ratified the Protocol. In 2012, parties to the Kyoto Protocol agreed to a second commitment period beyond the original December 2012 expiration date. Although the U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the U.S. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. Since 2006, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. In 2009, we formed a multi-departmental greenhouse gas task force to pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including evaluating potential reductions in emissions from our haul trucks. However, because of longer and steeper mining hauls as our open pits expand and deepen, and increases in use of electricity as we increase production capacity, we expect increases in our total greenhouse gas emissions.From a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations.56Table of ContentsOther risksIf market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long-lived assets may be impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material.Declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, could cause us to record lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory adjustments and could also result in a write-down of the carrying value of long-lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders' equity, but would have no effect on cash flows.During fourth-quarter 2008, we concluded that the then-current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment.  As a result, we recorded significant impairment and LCM inventory charges. Refer to Item 6. "Selected Financial Data" for a summary of these charges. Unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We are a party to the litigation described in Note 13 and in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at Superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. If any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business.Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. A loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected.Our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends.We are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. Cash at our international operations is also subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the U.S.In addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors.57Table of ContentsAnti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult.Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. These provisions:•Authorize our Board of Directors (the Board) to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us;•Establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the Board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings;•Limit removal of directors for cause only;•Limit who may call stockholder meetings; and•Require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the Board.In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us.These provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.Risks associated with the proposed acquisitions of Plains Exploration & Production Company (PXP) and McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)Our proposed acquisitions of PXP and MMR may present certain risks to our business and operations.On December 5, 2012, we announced definitive merger agreements to acquire PXP and MMR. The proposed acquisitions present numerous risks, including the following: •The possibility that the expected benefits of each transaction may not materialize in the timeframe expected or at all, or may be more costly to achieve than anticipated; •That either or both of the transactions may not be timely completed, or completed at all;•Our ability to obtain financing required in connection with the transactions, and the increase in our indebtedness that would result from entering into such financing;•That prior to the completion of the transactions or thereafter, our business or the respective  businesses of PXP and MMR may not perform as expected due to transaction-related uncertainty or other factors; •That the parties are unable to successfully implement integration strategies following closing of the transactions; •That required approvals to consummate the mergers, including the required approvals of the stockholders of each of PXP and MMR, are not obtained or other closing conditions are not satisfied in a timely manner or at all; 58Table of Contents•Stockholder reaction to the proposed acquisitions; •Risks associated with the ownership and operation of oil and gas assets and the other assets of each of PXP and MMR, which differ from those in the mining industry and include, among others, risks relating to oil and gas exploration, drilling and development (including ultra deep drilling) and operating in the deep water of the Gulf of Mexico; •Our ability to retain key employees of each of the parties; and•Whether or not one or both of the transactions are completed, the proposed acquisitions may require diversion of the attention of our management and other key employees from ongoing business activities, including the pursuit of other opportunities that could be beneficial to us.  In addition, we have incurred substantial costs in connection with the proposed acquisitions, a significant amount of which are required to be paid whether or not the transactions are completed. One or more of these factors could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of the proposed acquisitions of PXP and MMR.Pending litigation against us, PXP and MMR could result in injunctions preventing completion of either or both of the proposed acquisitions and the payment of damages in the event one or both of the transactions is completed.In connection with the proposed acquisitions, stockholders of each of FCX, PXP and MMR have filed numerous derivative lawsuits against us and class action lawsuits against us, PXP and MMR, among others.  Among other remedies, the plaintiffs in these lawsuits seek to enjoin the proposed acquisitions. We may be subject to additional stockholder lawsuits during the pendency of the proposed acquisitions. These lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of one or both of the proposed acquisitions and result in substantial costs to us, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of shareholder litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Consummating the PXP merger, but failing to complete the MMR merger could have consequences under the Clayton Antitrust Act (the Clayton Act) and negatively affect the combined company's future business and financial results. If the PXP merger is completed, but the MMR merger is not completed, then the boards of directors and executive management of FCX and MMR may need to be reconstituted in order to comply with the Clayton Act. Subject to certain de minimis exceptions, Section 8 of the Clayton Act prohibits individuals from serving as directors or officers of two competing corporations when each corporation has capital, surplus and undivided profits in excess of $27.8 million. Currently, FCX and MMR share overlapping board and management members, an overlap that is expected to continue even after the PXP merger is consummated, unless the MMR merger is also consummated. In the event that the PXP merger closes without the MMR merger also closing, the U.S. Department of Justice or Federal Trade Commission could investigate whether the combined company and MMR are competitors for purposes of the Clayton Act, and could seek to eliminate the interlock by securing resignation of the interlocked individuals or by pursuing injunctive relief. Private plaintiffs could also bring suits against the combined company seeking an injunction against the interlock. The potential distraction from operations, loss of key executive talent and cost of litigation could adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition or result of operations.Item 1B