Item 1A.  Risk Factors
    
    This
report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal
securities laws.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other
than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding anticipated
production volumes, unit net cash costs, sales volumes, ore grades, milling
rates, commodity prices, development and capital expenditures, mine production
and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment,
environmental reclamation and closure cost and plans, environmental liabilities
and expenditures, litigation liabilities and expenses, projected debt and cash
balances, dividend payments, reserve estimates, political, economic and social
conditions in our areas of operations and exploration efforts and
results.  Except for our ongoing obligations under the federal
securities laws, we do not intend, and we undertake no obligation, to update or
revise any forward-looking statements.  Readers are cautioned that
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual
results may differ materially from those projected, anticipated or assumed in
the forward-looking statements.  Important factors that could cause
our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the
forward-looking statements include the following:
    
       
      FINANCIAL
RISKS
      
      Declines
in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum could adversely affect our
earnings and cash flows and, therefore, our ability to repay debt. Such declines
could also cause significant volatility in our financial performance and
adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and equity
securities.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        46
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    Our
earnings and cash flows will be affected significantly by the market prices of
copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. The world market prices of
these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous
factors beyond our control. Many financial analysts who follow the metals
markets are predicting that copper prices will decline significantly from their
current, historically high levels over the next few years. A decline in the
world market price of one or more of these commodities could (1) adversely
affect our earnings and cash flows, (2) adversely affect our ability to repay
our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and (3) depress the trading
prices of our common and preferred stock and of our publicly traded debt
securities. In addition, substantially all of our copper concentrate sales
contracts and some of our copper cathode sales contracts provide final pricing
in a specified future period based on LME or COMEX
prices.  Accordingly, in times of falling copper prices, our revenues
during a quarter are negatively impacted from lower prices received for
contracts priced at current market rates and also from a decrease related to the
final pricing of provisionally priced contracts entered in prior
periods.
    
    World
copper prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended
December 31, 2007, LME daily closing spot prices ranged from $1.39 to
$4.00 per pound for copper. World copper prices are affected by numerous
factors beyond our control, including:
    
    · the
strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and
developing nations, including China, which has become the largest 

      
consumer of refined copper in the world;
    · available
supplies of copper from mine production and inventories;
    · sales
by holders and producers of copper;
    · demand
for industrial products containing copper;
    · investment
activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity;
    · the
availability and cost of substitute materials; and
    · currency
exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the
U.S.dollar.
     
    World
gold prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended
December 31, 2007, the daily closing prices on the London spot market ranged
from $411 to $842 per ounce for gold. World gold prices are affected by numerous
factors beyond our control, including:
     
    · the
strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and
developing nations, including China;
    · global
or regional political or economic crises;
    · the
relative strength of the U.S. dollar and other currencies;
    · expectations
with respect to the rate of inflation;
    · interest
rates;
    · purchases
and sales of gold by central banks and other holders;
    · demand
for jewelry containing gold; and
    · investment
activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity.
     
    Molybdenum prices
also fluctuate widely. Molybdenum demand depends primarily on the global steel
industry, which uses the metal as a hardening and corrosion inhibiting agent.
Approximately 80 percent of molybdenum production is used in this
application. The remainder is used in specialty chemical applications such as
catalysts, water treatment agents and lubricants. Approximately 60 percent
of global molybdenum production is a by-product of copper mining, which
is relatively insensitive to molybdenum prices.
During the three years ended December 31, 2007, the Metals
Week Dealer Oxide price for molybdenum ranged from $20.50 to
$40.00 per pound. Molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond
our control, including:
    
       
      · the
worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply;
      · rates
of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity
that requires significant amounts of steel;
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        47
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
    · the
volume of molybdenum produced as a by-product of copper
production;
    · inventory
levels;
    · currency
exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength of the U.S. dollar;
and
    · production
costs of U.S. and foreign competitors.
     
    The
agreements governing our indebtedness contain provisions that limit our
discretion in the operation of our business and require us to meet financial
tests and other covenants. In addition, we are required to meet financial tests
showing our capability to perform required closure and remediation. The failure
to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on
us.
    
    We
incurred significant debt to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid to
Phelps Dodge shareholders in our acquisition of Phelps Dodge. As of December 31,
2007, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was $7.2 billion
(excluding unused availability under our revolving credit facilities of $1.4
billion after giving effect to outstanding letters of credit). The agreements
governing our indebtedness contain covenants that restrict our ability
to:
    
    · incur
additional indebtedness;
    · engage
in transactions with affiliates;
    · create
liens on our assets;
    · make
payments in respect of, or redeem or acquire, debt or equity issued by us or our
subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on our common

      
stock;
    · make
acquisitions of new subsidiaries;
    · make
investments in, or loans, to entities that we do not control, including joint
ventures;
    · use
assets as security in other transactions;
    · sell
assets, subject to certain exceptions;
    · merge
with or into other companies;
    · enter
into sale and leaseback transactions;
    · enter
into unrelated businesses;
    · enter
into agreements or arrangements that restrict the ability of certain of
oursubsidiaries to pay dividends or other distributions;
    · prepay
indebtedness; and
    · enter
into certain new hedging transactions other than in the ordinary course of
business.
    
    In
addition, our senior credit facilities require that we meet specified financial
tests at any time that borrowings or letters of credit are outstanding under our
revolving credit facility, including a leverage ratio test and a secured
leverage ratio test.
     
    Any
failure to comply with the restrictions of our senior credit facilities or any
agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default.
Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which may
trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements.
Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under
our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default.
     
    If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure
our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit
agreements at maturity or in the event of a default, the lenders under our
senior credit facilities could terminate their commitments thereunder, cease
making further loans, declare all
borrowings outstanding (together with accrued interest and other fees)
immediately due and payable and institute foreclosure proceedings against the
security. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or
liquidation.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        48
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    In addition, most of the financial assurance for our
southwestern U.S. mines is provided by financial capability demonstrations or
guarantees, both of which require a demonstration  that we meet
financial tests showing our capability to perform the required closure and
remediation or ability to back guarantees provided for our subsidiaries.
Financial capability demonstrations or guarantees have been submitted for
essentially all of the financial assurance for our Arizona mines. We maintain a
part of our financial assurance using guarantees in New Mexico. However, a
portion of our financial assurance requirements in New Mexico is supplied in
another form, such as letters of credit, real property collateral or a trust.
Our ability to satisfy financial capability demonstrations or utilize
third-party guarantees for financial assurance with respect to reclamation
obligations may be adversely affected if our credit ratings continue to be rated
below investment grade and we are unable to pass the affirmative financial
tests. If this were to occur, we may be
required to provide alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of
credit, surety bonds, real property collateral or a trust.
    
    We
need significant amounts of cash to service our debt. If we are unable to
generate sufficient cash to service our debt, our financial condition and
results of operations could be negatively affected.
    
    We
must generate sufficient amounts of cash to service and repay our debt. Our
ability to generate cash will be affected by general economic, financial,
competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. Future borrowings
may not be available to us under our senior credit facilities or from the
capital markets in amounts sufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or
to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to obtain such borrowings or
generate sufficient cash from operations to service and repay our indebtedness,
we will need to refinance our indebtedness to avoid any default. Such
refinancing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. The inability to
service, repay or refinance our indebtedness could negatively affect our
financial condition and results of operations.
    
    Movements
in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could negatively affect our
operating results.
    
    Substantially
all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in
U.S. dollars; however, some of our costs, and certain of our asset and
liability accounts, are denominated in Indonesian rupiah, Chilean pesos,
Peruvian nuevos soles, Australia dollars, Euros and other foreign currencies. As
a result, we will be generally less profitable when the U.S. dollar weakens
in relation to these foreign currencies.
    
    As
of December 31, 2007, approximately 18 percent of outstanding debt was subject
to variable interest rates. Increases in these rates will increase our interest
costs and reduce our profits and operating cash flows.
    
    From
time to time, we may implement currency or interest rate hedges intended to
reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange or interest rates.
However, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged
foreign exchange or interest payments will continue to be subject to market
fluctuations.
    
    OPERATIONAL
RISKS
    
    The
volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may
be more or less than anticipated. In addition, our exploration activities may
not result in additional discoveries.
    
    Our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance
with established mining industry practices and standards, and are estimates of
the mineral deposits that can be recovered economically and legally based on
currently available data. Ore bodies may not conform to standard geological
expectations, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. Because
ore bodies do not contain uniform grades and types of minerals, our metal
recovery rates will vary from time to time. There are also uncertainties
inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from
stockpiles. 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        49
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    The
quantity of copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed
volumes of mined material and daily production records. The volume and grade of
ore reserves recovered, rates of production and recovered copper from stockpiles
may be less than anticipated. Additionally, because the determination of
reserves is based partially on historical selling prices, a prospective decrease
in such prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable, and
therefore reported, ore reserves. These factors may result in variations in the
volumes of mineral reserves that we report and the volume of minerals that we
can sell from period to period.
     
    Our
ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability.
Our exploration programs may not result in the discovery of sufficient
additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably.
    
    Our
business is subject to operational risks that are generally outside of our
control and could adversely affect our business.
    
    Mines
by their nature are subject to many operational risks and factors that are
generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business,
operating results and cash flows. These operational risks and factors include
the following:
     
    · unanticipated
ground and water conditions;
    · adverse
claims to water rights and shortages of water to which we have
rights;
    · geological
problems, including earthquakes and other natural disasters;
    · metallurgical
and other processing problems;
    · the
occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure
events;
    · lower
than expected ore grades or recovery rates;
    · accidents;
    · delays
in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government
permits;
    · the
results of litigation, including appeals of agency
decisions;
    · uncertainty
of exploration and development;
    · delays
in transportation;
    · interruption
of energy supply;
    · labor
disputes;
    · inability
to hire and retain a sufficient number of skilled employees;
    · inability
to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage;
    · unavailability
of experienced labor, equipment and materials; and
    · the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with
specifications or expectations.
     
    Continuation
of our mining production is dependent on the availability of a sufficient water
supply to support our mining operations.
    
    Our
mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore
processing and related support facilities. Our operations in North and South
America are in desert areas where water is scarce and competition amoung users
for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our
mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and
defeat claims adverse to our current water uses in legal proceedings. In
addition, our right to use water at our U.S. operations is subject to applicable
state laws. Although each operation currently has sufficient water claims to
cover its operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of
pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and
uses.  The loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, in
whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us
to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent us from pursuing
expansion opportunities.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        50
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    An
interruption of energy supply could adversely affect our mining
operations.
    
    Our
mining operations and development projects require significant energy. Our
principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural
gas and coal. Our South American mining operations receive electrical power
under long-term contracts with local energy companies. Our African development
project, Tenke Fungurume, has entered into long-term power supply and
infrastructure funding agreements with the state-owned electric utility company
serving the Katanga province of the DRC. A disruption in the transmission of
energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure, or the termination of any
of our energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and adversely
affect our operations.
    
    Worldwide
expansion of mining activity has increased costs and created shortages of
equipment, supplies and experienced personnel. Increased production costs could
reduce our profitability and cash flow.
    
    In
the last few years, there has been a significant increase in mining activity
worldwide to meet the demand of an expanding world economy and in response
to significant increases in prices of natural resources. The opening of new
mines and expansion of existing mines has led to increased demand for, and
increased costs and shortages of, equipment, supplies and experienced personnel.
These cost increases have significantly increased overall operating
and capital budgets of companies like ours, and continuing shortages could
affect the timing and feasibility of expansion projects.
     
    Energy
represents a significant portion of our production costs. Our principal energy
sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. An
inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely
affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. Our production costs are
also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations,
such as sulfuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, explosives and
diluents. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand
trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our
control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in
the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable, even in
an environment of relatively high copper prices. Increases in the costs of
commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital
costs of new projects.
    
    In
addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesian
operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually
difficult terrain in a very remote area.
    
    Our
Grasberg mining operations are located in steep mountainous terrain in a very
remote area in Indonesia. Because of these conditions, we have had to overcome
special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure
facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led
to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic
area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not
sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster.
     
    On
October 9, 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the
Grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. On December 12, 2003, a
debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in
the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. The
events caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans, which adversely
affected our 2003 and 2004 production. We resumed normal production activities
in the second quarter of 2004.
     
    On March 23, 2006, a mud/topsoil slide
involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain
ridge above service facilities supporting PT Freeport Indonesia’s mining
facilities. Regrettably, three contract workers were fatally injured in the
event. The material damaged a mess hall and
an adjacent area. As a result of investigations by PT Freeport Indonesia and the
Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, we conducted geotechnical
studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities
from slides. The existing early warning system for potential

    
      
        
        
      
      
        51
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been
expanded. However, no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur
in the future.
     
    Development projects are inherently
risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely
affect our business. In addition, our most significant
development project, Tenke Fungurume, is located in a remote area of the
DRC.
    
    There
are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects, including
our significant future development of underground mines at the Grasberg minerals
district, our Tenke Fungurume project and ongoing projects at our North and
South American operations. The economic feasibility of development projects
is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves,
metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and future prices of the
relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop
new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or
construction schedules can affect project economics. Thus it is possible that
actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our
estimates.
     
    New
development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of
future cash flow. These development projects also require the successful
completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits,
acquisition of land, power and water and ensuring that appropriate community
infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects.  It
is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for
the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either
on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to
experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in
producing revenue and increases in invested capital.
     
    Our
Tenke Fungurume project is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to
additional challenges due to:
     
    · severely
limited infrastructure, including road and rail access;
    · limited
and possibly unreliable energy supply;
    · security
risks; and
    · limited
health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health
issues, including malaria.
     
    Consequently,
our Tenke Fungurume development project may be substantially affected by factors
beyond our control, which could increase the cost of the project and adversely
affect its ultimate contribution to our operating results.
    
    ENVIRONMENTAL
RISKS
    
    Our
domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving
environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and
regulatory requirements involves significant costs.
    
    Our
ongoing mining operations and exploration activities, both in the U.S. and
elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration,
development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances,
waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of
endangered and protected species, and other related matters. Compliance with
these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs and we expect these costs
to continue to increase in the future because of increased demand for
remediation services and shortages of equipment, supplies, labor and other
factors. The Federal Clean Air Act (CAA) has had a significant impact,
particularly on our domestic smelter and power plants. Any change in regulation
of the mining industry under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA) could have a significant impact, both on operational compliance and
closure costs. In addition, environmental laws and regulations may change in
ways that could adversely affect our operations or expansion
opportunities.
    
      
        
        
      
      
        52
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    In
addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we
incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties
that have not been operated in many years.
    
    Phelps
Dodge and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in
mining, milling, and manufacturing in the U.S. for more than a century.
Activities that occurred in the late 19th
century and the 20th
century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not
subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before American
industrial companies understood the long-term effects of their operations on the
surrounding environment. With the passage of CERCLA in 1980, companies like
Phelps Dodge became legally responsible for environmental remediation on
properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage
to the environment occurred or who caused it. That liability is often shared on
a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each
owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up,
although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators
no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be
found. As a result, because of our acquisition of Phelps Dodge in 2007, many of
the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of
environmental remediation projects throughout the U.S., and we expect to spend
substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. We
are also subject to claims for natural resource damages where the release of
hazardous substances is alleged to have injured natural resources. As of
December 31, 2007, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the U.S.
in more than 25 states.
    
    Mine
closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations.
    
    Our
domestic operations are subject to various federal and state mine closure and
mined-land reclamation laws. The requirements of these laws vary depending upon
the jurisdiction. In general, our domestic mines are required to post increasing
amounts of financial assurance as estimated costs increase to ensure the
availability of funds to meet future closure and reclamation
obligations.
     
    Our
New Mexico financial assurance amounts at December 31, 2007, which reflected
reductions for work completed through 2006 and agreed upon by the New Mexico
Environment Department and Mining Minerals Division, totaled $463 million, up to
70 percent of which is in the form of guarantees issued by Phelps Dodge on
behalf of our operating subsidiaries and the balance is in the form of real
property collateral, letters of credit and cash. These amounts may change based
on the completion of additional permitting procedures, final agency
determinations and the results of administrative appeals, which could result in
changes to the closure and reclamation plans and lead to increases in the cost
estimates and our related financial assurance obligations.
     
    At
December 31, 2007, we had accrued closure costs of approximately $152 million
for our Arizona operations. The amount of financial assurance currently
demonstrated for Arizona closure and reclamation activities is approximately
$147 million. We have also approved mined-land reclamation plans and financial
assurance in place for our two Colorado mines totaling approximately
$81 million.
     
    Most
of the financial assurance provided for our U.S. mines requires that we meet
financial tests that demonstrate our capability to perform the required closure
and remediation or ability to back guarantees provided for our
subsidiaries. Financial capability
demonstrations or guarantees have been submitted for essentially all of the
financial assurance for our Arizona mines. We maintain a part of our financial
assurance using guarantees in New Mexico. However, a portion of our financial
assurance requirements in New Mexico is supplied in another form, such as
letters of credit, real property collateral or a trust. Our ability to satisfy
financial capability demonstrations or utilize third-party guarantees for
financial assurance with respect to reclamation obligations may be adversely
affected if our credit ratings continue to be rated below investment grade and
we are unable to pass the affirmative financial tests. If this were to occur, we
may be required to provide alternative form of financial assurance, such as
letters of credit, surety bonds, real property collateral or a
trust.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        53
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    In
recent years, many surety companies have begun to require a significant level of
collateral to support surety bonds, and the costs associated with such bonds
have increased significantly. As a result, if surety bonds are unavailable at
commercially reasonable terms to support our financial assurance obligations, we
could be required to post letters of credit, other collateral or cash or cash
equivalents directly in support of those obligations.
     
    In
addition, our international mines are subject to various mine closure and
mined-land reclamation laws, and there have recently been significant changes in
closure and reclamation programs in both Peru and Chile that impose more
stringent obligations on us for closure and reclamation.
    
    Regulation
of greenhouse effects and climate change may adversely affect our
operations and markets.
     
    Energy
is a significant input to our mining and processing operations. Our principal
energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and
coal. Many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based
fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and therefore potentially to climate
change.
     
    A
number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are
contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate
change. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established a set of greenhouse gas
emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the Protocol.
Although the Kyoto Protocol has not been ratified by the U.S., several states
have initiated legislative action on climate change. Climate change legislation
has been introduced in, but not yet passed by the U.S. Congress, which could
result in increased future energy and compliance costs. From a medium and
long-term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our
assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of
regulatory initiatives in the countries in which we operate. These regulatory
initiatives may be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact our operations
directly or through our suppliers or customers. Assessments of the potential
impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope
of potential regulatory change in countries in which we operate.
     
    The
potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly
uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may
include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels,
changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These
effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of
our operations.
    
    Our
operating, inactive and historical domestic mining sites and facilities may be
subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are
commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations.
    
    A
number of federal and state agencies are considering new regulations to
characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and
environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining
operations.  For example, the EPA intends to promulgate rules to
regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials
(TENORM) and their impacts at mining operations.  In addition, several
states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards
for radioactive materials, including uranium.  Radioactive materials
can be associated with copper mineral deposits. Consequently, our copper
operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may
subject our operations to new and increased regulation.  The impact of
such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation
costs is uncertain.
    
    
    
    Our
mining operations in Indonesia create difficult and costly environmental
challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated
environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased
costs.
    
    Mining
operations on the scale of our operations in Papua involve significant
environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the
large amount of crushed and ground rock material, 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        54
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    called
tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the
copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our
tailings management plan, which has been approved by the Government of
Indonesia, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to the
lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are deposited in a controlled
area contained within an engineered levee system that will be
revegetated.
    
    Another
major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that
must be moved aside in the mining process in order to reach the ore. In the
presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can
cause acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if
not properly managed, can have a negative impact on the
environment.
     
    Certain
Indonesian governmental officials have from time to time raised issues with
respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion
that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river deposition system for
tailings disposal. Because our mining operations are remotely located in steep
mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be
costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic
failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse
environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by third
parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or
practical.
     
    In
March 2006, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment announced the preliminary
results of its PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating)
environmental management audit, acknowledging the effectiveness of PT Freeport
Indonesia’s environmental management practices in some areas while making
several suggestions for improvement in others. We are working with the Ministry
of Environment to address the issues raised as it completes the audit
process.
    
    INTERNATIONAL
RISKS
    
    Our
operations outside of the United States are subject to political, social and
geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries.
    
    We
are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the
United States. We conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Chile
and Peru. We also have a significant development project in the DRC, which is
expected to begin production in 2009. Accordingly, our business may be adversely
affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these
countries, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in
foreign countries. Such risks include (1) forced modification of existing
contracts, (2) expropriation, (3) changes in a country’s laws and policies,
including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports,
exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, (4) political
instability and civil strife, (5) exchange controls, and (6) the risk of having
to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having
to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a
sovereign nation within its own territory. Our insurance does not cover most
losses caused by these risks.
    
    Because
our Grasberg mine in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant operating
asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian
political, economic and social uncertainties.
    
    Indonesia
has faced political, economic and social uncertainties, including separatist
movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. In
particular, several separatist groups are opposing Indonesian rule over the
province of Papua, where our Grasberg mine is located, and have sought political
independence for the province. In response, Indonesia enacted regional autonomy
laws, which became effective January 1, 2001. The manner in which the new
laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy
that they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua, are uncertain and
are ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there have been sporadic
attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts
between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social, economic and political
instability in Papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in
damage to our property or interruption of our activities.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        55
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    Maintaining
a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us
because our mining operations there are among Indonesia’s most significant
business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a Contract of Work with the
Indonesian government. Partially because of their significance to Indonesia’s
economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the
number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of
criticism in the Indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the
target of protests and occasional violence.
     
    Grasberg
operated at reduced mining and milling rates during a four-day period from April
18, 2007 to April 21, 2007, as a result of peaceful protests by certain workers
regarding benefits. The protests ended on April 21 with an agreement on a
framework for minimum wages for its workers and Grasberg returned to normal
operations. The impacts to production were not significant.
     
    We
cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt our
Indonesian operations, or whether similar incidents may occur in other countries
that could affect our other operations. If additional protests or other
disruptive incidents occur at any of our facilities, they could adversely affect
our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this
time.
    
    We
do not expect to mine all of our Indonesian ore reserves before the initial term
of our Contract of Work in Indonesia expires.
    
    All
of our Indonesian proven and probable ore reserves, including the Grasberg
deposit, are located in Block A. The initial term of our Contract of Work
covering these ore reserves expires at the end of 2021. We can extend this term
for two successive 10-year periods, subject to the approval of the Indonesian
government, which under our Contract of Work cannot be withheld or delayed
unreasonably. Our ore reserves reflect estimates of minerals that can be
recovered through the end of 2041 (i.e., through the expiration of the two
10-year extensions) and our current mine plan has been developed, and our
operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year
extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the
current term of our Contract of Work, and there can be no assurance that the
Indonesian government will approve the extensions. Prior to the end of 2021, we
expect to mine approximately 37 percent of aggregate proven and probable
recoverable ore at December 31, 2007, representing approximately 43 percent
of PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of recoverable copper reserves and
approximately 57 percent of its share of recoverable gold
reserves.
    
    Our
Contracts of Work in Indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply
with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit
to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel.
    
    PT
Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work and other Contracts of Work in which we
have an interest were entered into under Indonesia’s 1967 Foreign Capital
Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection
against nationalization. Our Contracts of Work can be terminated by the
Government of Indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which
include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the
satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health
requirements.
     
    At
times, certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the
validity of contracts entered into by the Government of Indonesia prior to May
1998 (i.e., during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years),
including PT Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work, which was signed in December
1991. We cannot assure you that the validity of, or our compliance with, the
Contracts of Work will not be challenged for political or other reasons. PT
Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work and our other Contracts of Work require
that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international
arbitration. Consequently, if a dispute arises under the Contracts of Work, we
face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or
arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the
additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or
arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        56
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    Indonesian
government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our
compliance with Indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of
the Contracts of Work. In 2006, the Government of Indonesia created a joint team
for “Periodic Evaluation on Implementation of the PT-FI Contract of Work (COW)”
to conduct an evaluation every five years. The team consists of five working
groups, whose members are from relevant ministries or agencies, covering
production, state revenues, community development, environmental issues and
security issues. We have conducted numerous meetings with these groups. The
joint team has indicated that it will issue a report. While we believe that we
comply with PT Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work in all material respects,
we cannot assure you that the report will support that conclusion. Separately,
the Indonesian House of Representatives created a working committee on PT
Freeport Indonesia. Members of this group have also visited our operations and
held a number of hearings in Jakarta. We will continue to work with these groups
to respond to their questions about our operations and our compliance with PT
Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work.
    
    Any
suspension of required activities under our Contracts of Work requires the
consent of the Indonesian government.
    
    Our
Contracts of Work permit us to suspend certain contractually required
activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written
request to the Indonesian government. These requests are subject to the approval
of the Indonesian government and are renewable annually. If we do not request a
suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our
activities under the Contract of Work or potentially be declared in default.
Moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other
than force majeure and the Indonesian government has not approved such
continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under
the Contract of Work.
     
    We
suspended our field exploration activities outside of Block A in recent years
because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a
possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest
areas and an Indonesian Forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open-pit mining
in forest preservation areas. In 2001, we requested and received from the
Government of Indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under
the Contracts of Work in all areas outside of Block A. Recent Indonesian
legislation permits open-pit mining in PT Freeport Indonesia’s Block B area,
subject to certain requirements. Following an assessment of these requirements
and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in
certain prospective Contract of Work areas outside of Block A.
    
    Our
Tenke Fungurume development project is located in the DRC, and our business may
be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the
DRC.
     
    Our
most significant development project, Tenke Fungurume, is located in the DRC, a
nation that since 1960 has undergone outbreaks of political violence, changes in
national leadership and financial crisis. These factors heighten the risk of
abrupt changes in the national policy towards foreign investors, which in turn
could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased
taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. Our
ability to continue development is currently subject to an ongoing review
of all mining contracts by the Ministry of Mines in the DRC (Ministry), the
outcome of which cannot be predicted. We received notification on February
20, 2008 that the Ministry wishes to renegotiate several material provisions of
our mining concessions.  We believe that the terms of the concessions
are fair and that they were negotiated transparently and are legally binding.
However, we cannot predict whether the Government of the DRC will respect our
contract rights. Other political, economic and social risks that are outside of
our control and could adversely affect our business include:
     
    · political
risks associated with the limited tenure of the newly elected
government;
    · cancellation
or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government;
    · royalty
and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive
claims;
    · security
risks due to the remote location and violence in the northeastern provinces of
theDRC;
    · risk
of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property;
and
    · risk
of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and
terrorism.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        57
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Table of Contents
     
    Consequently,
our Tenke Fungurume development project may be substantially affected by factors
beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our financial position
or results of operations.
    
    Terrorist
attacks throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist
acts have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and
adversely affect our business.
    
    On
August 31, 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an
ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near Tembagapura, the
mining town where the majority of PT Freeport Indonesia’s personnel reside. The
assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers
from our school in Tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to PT
Freeport Indonesia. The U.S. FBI investigated the incident, which resulted in
the U.S. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the Free Papua
Movement/National Freedom Force. In January 2006, Indonesian Police, accompanied
by FBI agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other Papuans.
In November 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those
accused in the August 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed
leader of the attack.
     
    On
October 12, 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the Indonesian province of
Bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. Indonesian
authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those
arrested have been tried and convicted. On August 5, 2003, 12 people were
killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the JW
Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia. On September 9, 2004, 11 people were
killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the Australian
embassy in Jakarta. On October 1, 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19
people and wounded over 100 in Bali. The same international terrorist
organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. In November 2005,
Indonesian Police raided a house in East Java that resulted in the death of
other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. Our mining and
milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but PT Freeport
Indonesia’s corporate office in Jakarta had to relocate for several months
following the bombing in front of the Australian embassy. In addition to the
Bali, JW Marriott Hotel and Australian embassy bombings, there have been
anti-American demonstrations in certain sections of Indonesia reportedly led by
radical Islamic activists.
    
    OTHER
RISKS
    
    The
impact of purchase accounting in connection with our acquisition of Phelps Dodge
in March 2007 will adversely affect our reported earnings.
     
    Purchase
accounting requires us to allocate the price paid for the acquisition of Phelps
Dodge to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated
fair values on the acquisition date of March 19, 2007. This allocation resulted
in significant increases in the carrying values of certain acquired assets,
including, based on preliminary estimates, increases of approximately $2.8
billion in metal inventories and stockpiles and approximately $16.1 billion in
property, plant and equipment. Although these increases in metal inventories and
stockpiles and property, plant and equipment do not impact our cash flows, the
increases in metal inventories and stockpiles had a significant impact to our
reported earnings in 2007, and the increases in property, plant and equipment
had a significant impact on our reported earnings in 2007, and will continue to
have an impact on reported earnings.
     
    A
decline in copper or molybdenum prices from those used to estimate the fair
values of the acquired assets could result in impairment to the carrying values
of metal and stockpile inventories and property, plant and equipment. These
charges would reduce reported earnings, but would have no effect on cash
flows.
     
    In
addition, at December 31, 2007, the carrying value of goodwill associated with
the acquisition of Phelps Dodge totaled $6.1 billion. Absent the occurrence of
events or circumstances in an interim period that may indicate impairment, we
are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. If we

    
      
        
        
      
      
        58
        
          
        
      
      Table of Contents
       
      conclude
that the goodwill associated with the transaction is impaired, the amount of the
impairment would be charged to our reported earnings, but would have no effect
on cash flows.
    
    
    We
depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of
any of these employees could adversely affect our business.
    
    Our
success depends in part on our ability to retain senior management and other key
employees. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. In addition,
senior management and key employees may depart because of issues relating to the
uncertainty or difficulty associated with the successful integration of the
business and operations as formerly conducted by Phelps Dodge, or a desire not
to remain with us. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able
to retain senior management and key employees to the same extent that we have
been able to do so in the past.
    
    Our holding company structure may
impact your ability to receive dividends.
    
    We
are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of
our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay
dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and
their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or
otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available
to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries
may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay
our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal
entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as
well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries,
may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our rights to
participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries’ assets upon their
liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the
prior claims of the subsidiaries’ creditors, including any trade creditors and
preferred shareholders.
    
    Anti-takeover
provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of
us more difficult.
    
    Anti-takeover
provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of
us more difficult. These provisions:
     
    · authorize
our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval
andto designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each

      
class; if issued, such preferredstock would increase the number of outstanding
shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an

      
acquisition of us;
    · establish
advanced notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or
forproposals that can be acted on at stockholder
meetings; and
    · limit
who may call stockholder meetings.
     
    In
addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the
provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which
may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition
of, us.
     
    These
provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to
stockholders.
    
    Item 1B