. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion.8Table of ContentsSierritaOur wholly owned Sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Pima County, Arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of Tucson and seven miles west of the town of Green Valley and Interstate Highway 19. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail.The Sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides.The Sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates. Sierrita also produces copper from a ROM oxide-leaching system. Cathode copper is plated at the Twin Buttes EW facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. In 2004, a copper sulfate crystal plant began production, which has the capacity to produce 40 million pounds of copper sulfate per year. The Sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. The molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by Sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. The available mining fleet consists of 25 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day. Sierrita’s production totaled 177 million pounds of copper and 23 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011, 147 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010, and 170 million pounds of copper and 19 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009.Sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. The Sierrita operation, including the adjacent Twin Buttes site (refer to "Development Projects and Exploration" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 27,000 acres, comprising 13,282 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 11,694 acres of unpatented mining claims and 2,024 acres of leased lands.Sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Tucson Electric Power Company. Although we believe the Sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Sierrita operation. Refer to . "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion.10Table of ContentsTyrone and ChinoTyroneOur wholly owned Tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. It is located in southwestern New Mexico in Grant County, approximately 10 miles south of Silver City, New Mexico, along State Highway 90. The site is accessible by paved road and rail.The Tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. Mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of  chalcocite with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocola.Copper processing facilities consist of a SX/EW operation with a maximum capacity of 153 million pounds of copper cathodes per year. The available mining fleet consists of 20 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 136,000 metric tons of material per day.Tyrone’s copper production totaled 76 million pounds in 2011, 82 million pounds in 2010 and 86 million pounds in 2009.Tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. The Tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,755 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 16,445 acres of unpatented mining claims.Tyrone receives electrical power from the Luna Energy facility and from the open market. We believe the Tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.ChinoOur wholly owned Chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in southwestern New Mexico in Grant County, approximately 15 miles east of the town of Silver City off of State Highway 180. The mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. Chino has been in operation since 1910.The Chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. There is leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and millable primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and azurite. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides.The Chino operation consists of a 39,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, and a 150 million pound-per-year SX/EW plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by ROM leaching.  The available mining fleet consists of 34 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 218,000 metric tons of material per day.During 2011, we restarted mining and milling activities at the Chino mine, which were suspended in late 2008.  Chino’s copper production totaled 69 million pounds in 2011 and is expected to increase to approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year by 2014. Chino's copper production totaled 34 million pounds in 2010 and 36 million pounds in 2009. 11Table of ContentsChino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. The Chino operation encompasses approximately 118,623 acres comprising 113,221 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 5,402 acres of unpatented mining claims.Chino receives power from the Luna Energy Facility and from the open market. We believe Chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations.HendersonOur wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of Denver, Colorado, off U.S. Highway 40. Nearby communities include the towns of Empire, Georgetown and Idaho Springs. The Henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from Colorado State Highway 9. The Henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the Continental Divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. The tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill.The Henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral.The Henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. Henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. The majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our Fort Madison, Iowa, processing facility. The available underground mining equipment fleet consists of 13 nine-metric ton load-haul-dump (LHD) units and six 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles.Henderson’s molybdenum production totaled 38 million pounds in 2011, 40 million pounds in 2010 and 27 million pounds in 2009.The Henderson mine is located in a mountain region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. The main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. This region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months.The Henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,878 acres, comprising 11,843 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and a 35-acre easement with the U.S. Forest Service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor.Henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with Xcel Energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with Anadarko Energy Services Company, with Xcel Energy as the transporter. We believe the Henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.12Table of ContentsOther North America MinesIn addition to the currently operating mines described above, we have four non-operating copper mines: Ajo, Bisbee and Tohono in Arizona, and Cobre in New Mexico; and the Climax molybdenum mine in Colorado.Our four non-operating copper mines have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require significant capital investment to return them to operating status.Construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine are substantially complete, and we expect to commence production during 2012. Production from the Climax molybdenum mine is expected to ramp up to a rate of 20 million pounds of molybdenum per year during 2013 and, depending on market conditions, may be increased to 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. We intend to operate our Climax and Henderson molybdenum mines in a flexible manner to meet market requirements.South AmericaAt our operations in South America, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. The claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. Roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements.Cerro VerdeWe have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in Cerro Verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by SMM Cerro Verde Netherlands B.V. (21.0 percent), Compañia de Minas Buenaventura S.A.A. (19.3 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the Lima Stock Exchange (6.14 percent).Cerro Verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of Arequipa, Peru. The site is accessible by paved highway.  Approximately one-third of Cerro Verde’s copper cathode production is sold locally and the remaining copper cathodes and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and rail to the Port of Matarani for shipment to international markets.The Cerro Verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper “pitch.” Chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides.Cerro Verde’s current operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 120,000 metric tons of ore per day concentrator and SX/EW leaching facilities. Leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a ROM leach system. This leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year.  The available fleet consists of 32 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 21 to 53 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of approximately 308,000 metric tons of material per day.13Table of ContentsCerro Verde’s production totaled 647 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011, 668 million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010, and 662 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009.Refer to “Development Projects and Exploration” for further discussion of the large-scale concentrator expansion project at Cerro Verde.Cerro Verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 2,900 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 2,000 meters above sea level. Cerro Verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,007 acres plus 24 acres of owned property and 79 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area.Cerro Verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with Kallpa Generación SA and Empresa de Generación Eléctrica de Arequipa. Water for our Cerro Verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Cerro Verde’s participation in the Pillones Reservoir Project has secured water rights that we believe will be sufficient to support Cerro Verde’s current operations.  In 2011, Cerro Verde reached an agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Arequipa S.A. (SEDAPAR) and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant, should Cerro Verde proceed with plans for a large-scale concentrator expansion. Once Cerro Verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion. For further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see . “Risk Factors.”Candelaria and Ojos del SaladoCandelariaWe have an 80 percent ownership interest in Candelaria, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation.Candelaria’s open-pit copper mine has been in operation since 1993 and the underground mine has been in operation since 2005. The Candelaria copper mining complex is located approximately 12 miles south of Copiapó in northern Chile’s Atacama province, Region III. The site is accessible by two maintained dirt roads, one coming through the Tierra Amarilla community and the other off of Route 5 of the International Pan-American Highway. Copper concentrates are transported by truck to the Punta Padrones port facility located in Caldera, approximately 50 miles northwest of the mine.The Candelaria mine is an iron oxide, copper and gold deposit. Primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite.The Candelaria operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a 6,000 metric ton-per-day underground copper mine, which is mined by sublevel stoping, feeding a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator.  The available fleet consists of 46 225-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 28 to 43 cubic meters, which are capable of moving 250,000 metric tons of material per day.Candelaria’s production totaled 327 million pounds of copper and 85 thousand ounces of gold in 2011, 300 million pounds of copper and 76 thousand ounces of gold in 2010, and 296 million pounds of copper and 74 thousand ounces of gold in 2009.Candelaria is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 675 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to 15Table of Contentsbe 32 meters below sea level. The Candelaria property encompasses approximately 13,390 acres, including approximately 125 acres for the port facility in Caldera. The remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean law.Candelaria receives electrical power through long-term contracts with Empresa Eléctrica Guacolda S.A., a local energy company. Candelaria’s water supply comes from well fields in the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiapó that draw water from the Copiapó River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of that aquifer in recent years, Candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. During 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to bring water from a nearby water treatment facility.  We have also completed engineering and began construction for a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean that will supply all of Candelaria’s longer term water needs. The plant is expected to be completed in early 2013. For further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see . “Risk Factors.”16Table of ContentsIndonesiaOwnership. PT Freeport Indonesia is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the Republic of Indonesia and incorporated in Delaware. We directly own 81.28 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia and 9.36 percent indirectly through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama; the Government of Indonesia owns the remaining 9.36 percent.We have established certain unincorporated joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc (Rio Tinto). Under the joint venture arrangements, Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in PT Freeport Indonesia’s Contract of Work (COW) and the option to participate in 40 percent of any other future exploration projects in Papua, Indonesia. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion.Contract of Work. PT Freeport Indonesia conducts its current exploration and mining operations in Indonesia through a COW with the Government of Indonesia. The COW governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which expresses Indonesia’s foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. Specifically, the COW provides that the Government of Indonesia will not nationalize or expropriate PT Freeport Indonesia’s mining operations. Any disputes regarding the provisions of the COW are subject to international arbitration. We have experienced no disputes requiring arbitration during the more than 40 years we have operated in Indonesia.PT Freeport Indonesia’s original COW was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by a new COW in 1991. The initial term of the current COW expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. The COW allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre Block A area, which is where all of PT Freeport Indonesia’s proven and probable mineral reserves and current mining operations are located. Under the COW, PT Freeport Indonesia also conducts exploration activities in the Block B area. We expect the Block B area to be reduced to approximately 413,000 acres once the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources (DEMR) formally accepts PT Freeport Indonesia's relinquishment of approximately 89,000 acres. As further discussed in Note 14, PT Freeport Indonesia pays copper royalties under its COW, and has agreed to pay additional royalties to the Government of Indonesia that are not required under its COW. The additional royalties provide further support to the local governments and to the people of the Indonesian province of Papua. PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of the combined royalties totaled $137 million in 2011, $156 million in 2010 and $147 million in 2009.PT Irja Eastern Minerals (Eastern Minerals), of which we own 100 percent, conducts exploration in Papua through a joint venture agreement under a separate COW. We expect Eastern Minerals' exploration area to be reduced to approximately 283,000 acres once the DEMR formally accepts Eastern Minerals' relinquishment of approximately 17Table of Contents164,000 acres.Under a joint venture agreement through PT Nabire Bakti Mining (PTNBM), we conduct exploration activities under a separate COW in an area in three parcels contiguous to PT Freeport Indonesia’s Block B and one of Eastern Minerals’ blocks. We expect PTNBM's exploration area to be reduced to approximately 301,000 acres once the DEMR formally accepts PTNBM's relinquishment of approximately 192,000 acres.In 2009, Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia, Eastern Minerals and PTNBM. In 2011 and 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2009 mining law and certain provisions that address existing contracts of work. The laws and regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to existing contracts of work and may seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work, even though our COW provides for two 10-year extension periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. In February 2012, a new regulation was adopted that would require mining companies in Indonesia to process all minerals domestically and possibly ban export of concentrates and other unrefined minerals. PT Freeport Indonesia's existing COW includes specific provisions that define PT Freeport Indonesia's rights to export product and obligate it to develop domestic smelting facilities, if commercially feasible, or to contract with other domestic smelters on a market basis. In connection with the obligations under its COW, in 1995, PT Freeport Indonesia constructed the only copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia, which is owned and operated by PT Smelting.In January 2012, the President of Indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 Mining Law, and accordingly, to take steps to assess and negotiate size of work areas, government revenues and domestic processing of minerals (refer to . “Risk Factors” for further discussion).The Miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our Arizona copper mines. Concentrate processed through the smelter totaled approximately 625,000 metric tons in each of 2011 and 2010. In addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrates, the Miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our North America leaching operations.Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every 14 months for the Miami smelter, with shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim.26Table of ContentsOTHER PROPERTIES AND INVESTMENTSRod & Refining Operations. Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in North America, including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut, and Miami, Arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper anode production from our Miami smelter, along with purchased anodes, at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at Miami. Our El Paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium.Molybdenum Conversion Facilities. We process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. We operate molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The conversion facility located at our Sierrita mine consists of two molybdenum roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a toll basis for third parties. The facility produces molybdenum oxide and related products. The Fort Madison facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphur dioxide conversion plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical conversion plant, which includes a wet-chemicals plant, sublimation equipment and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. In the chemical plant, molybdic oxide is further refined into various high-purity molybdenum chemicals for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. In addition to metallurgical oxide products, the Fort Madison facility produces ammonium dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum disulfide. The Rotterdam facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid plant, metallurgical packagingfacility and chemical conversion plant. The plant produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. Ammonium dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet-chemicals plant. We also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in Stowmarket, United Kingdom. The plant is operated both as an internal and external customer tolling facility.McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR). In December 2010, we purchased 500,000 shares of MMR’s 5¾% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million (refer to Note 6 for further discussion).  In connection with the purchase, we entered into a registration rights agreement and a stockholder agreement with MMR.MMR is engaged in the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico Shelf. MMR is currently undertaking a major capital program to fund recent and planned additional exploration. Our investment allows us to participate in MMR’s highly prospective North American exploration and development activities, which have the potential to general significant value.Several of our directors and executive officers also serve as directors or executive officers of MMR, and our wholly owned subsidiary FM Services Company (FM Services) provides certain executive, technical administrative, accounting, financial, tax and other services to us and to MMR on a cost-reimbursement basis. Refer to Part III, Item 13. “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence,” for additional information.SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALSOur copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. Energy represented approximately 21 percent of our 2011 consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately 225 million gallons of diesel fuel; 6,475 gigawatt hours of electricity at our North America, South America and Africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation); 650 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia; and 1 million MMBTU (million British thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. For 2012, we estimate energy costs will approximate 23 percent of our consolidated copper production costs.27Table of ContentsSulphuric acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulphur burners at the Safford and Tenke mines. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties as required.Our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to . "Risk Factors" for further information on labor agreements. LocationNumber of UnionsNumber ofUnion-Represented EmployeesExpiration Date  PT Freeport Indonesia – Indonesia18,712September 2013 Tenke Fungurume – DRC62,750August 2013 Cerro Verde – Peru11,407August 2014 El Abra – Chile2925December 2015 Candelaria – Chile2805July 2013 Atlantic Copper – Spain2427December 2011a Chino – New Mexico1286November 2014 Rotterdam – The Netherlands248March 2013 Bayway – New Jersey143April 2013 Aurex – Chile139December 2013 Stowmarket – United Kingdom131May 2014a.  Negotiations are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of the expired contract.ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERSThe cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to . “Risk Factors” for further discussion.South America. Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. During 2006, as a result of discussions with local mayors in the Arequipa region, Cerro Verde agreed to contribute to the design and construction of domestic water and sewage treatment plants for the benefit of the region. These facilities are being designed in a modular fashion so that initial installations can be readily expanded in the future.Additionally, during 2006, the Peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in Peru would be required to make annual contributions to local development funds for a five-year period (covering the years 2006 through 2010) when copper prices exceeded certain levels that were adjusted annually. The contribution, which expired in 2010, was equal to 3.75 percent of after-tax profits and totaled $41 million in 2010 and $28 million in 2009. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion.Indonesia. In 1996, PT Freeport Indonesia established the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development (the Partnership Fund), through which PT Freeport Indonesia has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. PT Freeport Indonesia has committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the Partnership Fund. Our share of contributions to the Partnership Fund totaled $50 million in 2011, $64 million in 2010 and $59 million in 2009.The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pembangunan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoro or LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of PT Freeport Indonesia on each board. The Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations.Security Matters. Consistent with our COW in Indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As part of its security program, PT Freeport Indonesia maintains its own internal security department, which is unarmed and performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring the shipment of company supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. The security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy.PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $37 million for 2011, $28 29Table of Contentsmillion for 2010 and $18 million for 2009.PT Freeport Indonesia, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the Indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals district has been designated by the Indonesian government as one of Indonesia’s vital national assets. This designation results in the police and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. The Indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations.From the outset of PT Freeport Indonesia’s operations, the Indonesian government has looked to PT Freeport Indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in Papua. PT Freeport Indonesia’s financial support for the Indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, betterensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol PT Freeport Indonesia’s roads and secure its operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT Freeport Indonesia’s obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights.PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of support costs for the government-provided security was $14 million for each of the years 2011 and 2010, and $10 million for 2009. This supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police.Refer to . Risk Factors This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of United States (U.S.) federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold molybdenum and cobalt price changes, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities and expenditures, litigation contingencies and results, dividend payments, potential prepayments of debt, reserve estimates, and anticipated political, economic and social conditions in our areas of operations. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following.Financial risksExtended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and/or molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. Fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or molybdenum can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and equity securities.Our financial results vary as a result of fluctuations in metal market prices, including copper, gold and molybdenum (for further information about the market prices of these commodities, refer to discussion below and in Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). An extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could adversely affect our financial results, affect our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities.Additionally, if market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. We may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses.Substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) monthly average spot copper prices. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs.Copper prices have fluctuated historically, with LME spot copper prices ranging from $1.38 to $4.60 per pound during the three years ended December 31, 2011. Copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:•The strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world;•Available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories;•Sales by holders and producers of copper;•Demand for industrial products containing copper;•Investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity;•The availability and cost of substitute materials; and•Currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar.40Table of ContentsGold prices have also fluctuated historically, with the London PM gold price ranging from $810 to $1,895 per ounce during the three years ended December 31, 2011. Gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:•The strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China and India;•Global or regional political or economic crises;•The relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar and other currencies;•Expectations with respect to the rate of inflation;•Interest rates;•Purchases and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other holders;•Demand for jewelry containing gold; and•Investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity.Molybdenum prices also fluctuate, with the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price ranging from $7.83 to $18.60 per pound during the three years ended December 31, 2011. Molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:•The worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply;•Rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel;•The volume of molybdenum produced as a by-product of copper production;•Inventory levels;•Currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar; and•Production costs of U.S. and foreign competitors.Under U.S. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we generally are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent state regulations. The failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse affect on us.We are required by U.S. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. These laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance.  EPA and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under CERCLA or equivalent state regulations. In July 2009, EPA published a Priority Notice of Action identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements concerning the degree and duration of risk associated with the production, transportation, treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous substances. In EPA's semi-annual regulatory agenda published on February 13, 2012, EPA indicated that it intends to propose regulations regarding hardrock mining financial responsibility in April 2013. It is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations.41Table of ContentsThe amount of financial assurance we are required to provide will vary with changes in laws, regulations and reclamation and closure requirements and cost estimates. As of December 31, 2011, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs in New Mexico, Arizona and Colorado totaled $899 million, of which $565 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. Our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on our ability to meet financial tests. Certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state-approved ratings service. We are currently rated investment grade by Standard & Poor's Rating Services (S&P), Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investors Service (Moody's). If we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these more rigorous tests, in which case the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. Depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. Issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. Failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. As of December 31, 2011, we had limited financial assurance obligations associated with CERCLA-related remediation obligations, although EPA and certain states are currently considering increasing the use of financial assurance requirements for such obligations. For additional information, see the environmental risk factor “Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations.”In July 2011, the Chilean senate passed legislation regulating mine closure, which establishes new requirements for closure plans and becomes effective in November 2012. Our Chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. We cannot predict at this time the costs of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required.In December 2010, the President of Indonesia issued a regulation regarding mine reclamation and closure, which requires a company to provide a mine closure guarantee in the form of a time deposit placed in a state-owned bank in Indonesia. In accordance with its Contract of Work (COW), PT Freeport Indonesia is working with the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources to review these requirements, including discussions of other options for the mine closure guarantee. In December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia submitted its revised mine closure plan to the Department of Energy and Minerals Resources for review and has addressed comments received during the course of this review process.Movements in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results.The functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol, euro and South African rand. Generally, our results are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Refer to Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs.From time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange. However, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations.International risksOur international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries.We are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the U.S. We conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Peru, Chile and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. Such risks include:•Renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, •Expropriation or nationalization of property, 42Table of Contents•Changes in a foreign country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, •Political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, •Foreign exchange controls, and •The risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. Our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. Accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the U.S. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.In October 2010, PT Freeport Indonesia received an assessment from the Indonesian tax authorities for additional taxes of $106 million and interest of $52 million related to various audit exceptions for 2005. In November 2011, PT Freeport Indonesia received an assessment from the Indonesian tax authorities for additional taxes of $22 million and interest of $10 million related to various audit exceptions for 2006. PT Freeport Indonesia has paid $109 million for these disputed tax assessments and filed objections to these assessments because it believes it has properly paid all taxes. PT Freeport Indonesia is working with the Indonesian tax authorities to resolve these matters and expects to receive additional assessments from the Indonesian tax authorities for their audit of its 2007 tax return. In December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia was notified by the Large Taxpayer's Office of the Government of Indonesia of its view that PT Freeport Indonesia is obligated to pay value added taxes on certain goods imported after the year 2000. The amount of such taxes and related penalties under this view would be significant. PT Freeport Indonesia believes that, pursuant to the terms of its COW, it is only required to pay value added taxes on these types of goods imported after December 30, 2009. PT Freeport Indonesia has not received a formal assessment and is working with the applicable government authorities to resolve this matter.SUNAT, the Peruvian national tax authority, has assessed mining royalties on materials processed by the Cerro Verde concentrator which commenced operations in late 2006. These assessments cover the period October 2006 to December 2007 and the years 2008 and 2009. SUNAT has issued rulings denying Cerro Verde's protest of the assessments. Cerro Verde has appealed these decisions and currently has three cases pending before the Peruvian Tax Tribunal. Cerro Verde is challenging these royalties because it believes its stability agreement provides an exemption for all minerals extracted from its mining concession, irrespective of the method used for processing those minerals. Although we believe our interpretation of the stability agreement is correct, if Cerro Verde is ultimately found responsible for these assessments, it will also be liable for interest, which accrues at rates that range from approximately 7 to 18 percent based on the year accrued and the currency in which the amounts would be payable. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate amount of the assessments, including interest and penalties, totaled $190 million. SUNAT may continue to assess mining royalties annually until this matter is resolved by the Peruvian Tax Tribunal.Because our Grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in Indonesia.Indonesia has faced political and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. In particular, several separatist groups are opposing Indonesian rule over the province of Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. In response, Indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective January 1, 2001. The manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social, economic and political instability in Papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities.Maintaining a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among Indonesia's most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a COW with the Indonesian government. Partially because of their significance to Indonesia's economy, the 43Table of Contentsenvironmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the Indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. Between July 2009 and February 2012, there were 32 shooting incidents in and around the Grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 56 injuries. Victims included PT Freeport Indonesia employees, contractors, members of law enforcement and civilians. The identity of the perpetrators is unknown as is the motivation for the shootings. The investigation of these matters is continuing. We have taken precautionary measures, including using secured convoys on the road. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. Prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. The safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and PT Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the Government of Indonesia to address security issues.During 2011, PT Freeport Indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in July 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in December 2011. The strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. Although a new labor agreement was reached in mid-December 2011, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at PT Freeport Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. Certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. On February 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. We are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. Refer to Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion.Large numbers of illegal miners have continued to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in PT Freeport Indonesia's government-approved tailings management area. The illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. In 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the Grasberg mine and mill in protest, and PT Freeport Indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. We cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our Indonesian operations.  If additional violence or other disruptive incidents occur, it could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time.We do not expect to mine all of our ore reserves in Indonesia before the initial term of our COW expires.PT Freeport Indonesia is entitled to mine in Indonesia under its COW with the Government of Indonesia. The initial term of the current COW expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Our proven and probable ore reserves in Indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current COW, and there can be no assurance that the Indonesian government will approve the extensions. Prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 31 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at December 31, 2011, representing 37 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia's share of recoverable copper reserves and 49 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves.In 2009, Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia. In 2011 and 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2009 mining law and certain provisions address existing contracts of work.  The laws and regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to existing contracts and may seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work, even though our COW provides for two 10-year extension periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. In February 2012, a new regulation was adopted that would require mining companies in Indonesia to process all minerals domestically and possibly ban export of concentrates and other unrefined minerals. There are specific provisions included in PT Freeport Indonesia's existing COW that define its rights to 44Table of Contentsexport product and the obligation to develop domestic smelting capacity if commercially feasible, or to contract with other domestic smelters on a market basis. In connection with the obligations under its COW, in 1995, PT Freeport Indonesia constructed the only copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia, which is owned and operated by PT Smelting.Our COWs in Indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel.PT Freeport Indonesia's COW and other COWs in which we have an interest were entered into under Indonesia's 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. Our COWs can be terminated by the Government of Indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements.Certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our COW. Although our COW grants to PT Freeport Indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the COW, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on PT Freeport Indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements.  At times, certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the Government of Indonesia prior to May 1998 (i.e., during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including PT Freeport Indonesia's COW, which was signed in December 1991. We cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the COWs will not be challenged for political or other reasons. PT Freeport Indonesia's COW and our other COWs require that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. Accordingly, if a dispute arises under the COWs, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory.Indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with Indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the COWs. In January 2012, the President of Indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 Mining Law, and accordingly, to take steps to assess and negotiate size of work areas, government revenues, and domestic processing of minerals. The team includes 14 cabinet-level members representing 13 formal government institutions led by the Coordinating Minister of Economy and the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources, with the Director General of Mineral and Coal as the Secretary. The team's assignment runs through December 2013 and the group is expected to provide progress reports to the President every six months. We intend to continue to work cooperatively with the Government of Indonesia to complete this review and to seek extension of the COW beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the COW. The COW can only be modified by mutual agreement between PT Freeport Indonesia and the Government of Indonesia. Any suspension of required activities under our COWs requires the consent of the Indonesian government.Our COWs permit us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the Indonesian government. These requests are subject to the approval of the Indonesian government and are renewable annually. If we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the COW or potentially be declared in default. Moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the Indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the COW.We previously suspended our field exploration activities outside of the Block A area of PT Freeport Indonesia's COW because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an Indonesian Forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open-pit mining in forest preservation areas. In 2001, we requested and received from the Government of Indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the COWs in all areas outside of Block A. Recent Indonesian legislation permits open-pit mining in the Block B area of PT Freeport Indonesia's COW, subject to certain requirements. Following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective COW areas outside of Block A.45Table of ContentsThe Tenke Fungurume minerals district is located in the Katanga province of the DRC, and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the DRC.During 2009, we completed construction activities and commenced copper production at the Tenke Fungurume mine (the Tenke mine) located in the DRC. Since gaining independence in 1960, the DRC has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. As part of a review of all mining contracts by the Ministry of Mines (the Ministry) in the DRC, in February 2008, we received notification that the Ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L.'s (TFM) mining concessions. In October 2010, the Government of the DRC concluded its review of TFM's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. In connection with the review, TFM made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in December 2010 (refer to Note 14 for further discussion). In March 2011, the amendments were approved by a ministerial council, and a Presidential Decree, signed by the President and Prime Minister of the DRC, was issued in April 2011.  After receiving the required government approval of the modification to TFM's bylaws that reflect the agreement with the Government of the DRC, our effective ownership interest in the project will be reduced to 56.0 percent prospectively, compared to our current ownership interest of 57.75 percent.In November 2011, the DRC held a general presidential election. On December 16, 2011, incumbent President Joseph Kabila was declared the winner of that election by the DRC Supreme Court. There has been widespread international and local criticism of the election and episodes of protests, some of which were accompanied by acts of violence. In July 2009, TFM was advised that the Minister of Justice in the DRC authorized an inquiry regarding the alleged misappropriation of public funds in connection with securing labor and immigration authorizations and the payment of associated fees for the Tenke Fungurume project. Several government officials and three TFM employees were arrested. In October 2009, the three TFM employees were tried and acquitted. One government official, the head of immigration in the Katanga province, was sentenced to five years imprisonment on charges of embezzlement. The office of the Attorney General of the DRC filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, and the matter is pending at the Appellate Court.In July 2009, TFM entered into a settlement agreement with DRC tax authorities in connection with an administrative audit regarding the payment of fees for work permits and visas for its foreign workers and subcontractors, including short-term workers. Pursuant to the agreement, which covers the period from January 2007 to the date of the settlement, TFM paid approximately $16 million in fees and penalties. The procedures associated with obtaining labor and immigration authorizations for short-term workers on a timely basis are not clearly established in the DRC, and TFM continues to work proactively and cooperatively with the government authorities to establish approved procedures for doing so consistent with its mining convention and local law. In connection with this matter, we notified the U.S. government enforcement authorities about our internal investigation of the immigration work permit and visa matter and the associated criminal case. We have received and responded to requests from U.S. government authorities related to the matter and to other requests for information about our compliance program.Political, economic and social risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include:•Political risks associated with the establishment and re-election of the present government;•Cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government;•Legal and regulatory uncertainties, governmental corruption and bribery;•Royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims;•Security risks due to the remote location in the southern DRC and violence in the northeastern provinces of the DRC;46Table of Contents•Risk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; and•Risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism.Accordingly, the Tenke Fungurume minerals district and its future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our operating results, interrupt our operations or result in a loss of all or part of our investment in the DRC.Terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business.In July 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels in Jakarta, Indonesia, that killed nine people and injured 53 others. Two of our Indonesian-based executives were injured in the incident.In July 2009, a small group of individuals created a disturbance on the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg minerals district and vandalized vehicles and small buildings. There were no injuries. For more information about a series of shooting incidents near our Grasberg minerals district, refer to the risk factor “Because our Grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in Indonesia.”In August 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near Tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of PT Freeport Indonesia's personnel reside. The assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in Tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to PT Freeport Indonesia. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigated the incident, which resulted in the U.S. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the Free Papua Movement/National Freedom Force. In January 2006, Indonesian police, accompanied by FBI agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other Papuans. In November 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the August 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack.In October 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the Indonesian province of Bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. Indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. In August 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia. In September 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. In October 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in Bali. The same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. In November 2005, Indonesian police raided a house in East Java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. Our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but PT Freeport Indonesia's corporate office in Jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the Australian embassy. In addition to the Bali, JW Marriott Hotel and Australian embassy bombings, there have been anti-American demonstrations in certain sections of Indonesia reportedly led by radical Islamic activists.No assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. If there were to be additional terrorist incidents or acts of violence, particularly at or near our operations, there could be no assurance that the occurrence of such events would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.Operational risksOur business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business.Mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. These operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following:•Earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters;47Table of Contents•The occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events;•The failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations;•Accidents;•Wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines;•Problems associated with the construction and management of large impoundments containing tailings or other viscous or semi-solid materials, some of which also contain mineral and chemical contaminants, such as structural failures or leakages;•Interruption of energy supply;•Lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates;•Metallurgical and other processing problems;•Unanticipated ground and water conditions;•Adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and shortages of water to which we have rights;•Adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; •Delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits;•Delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes;•The inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage.The failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. Labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As further described in Items 1 and 2. “Business and Properties,” we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at our operations. Labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning those issues will be concluded successfully. Our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations. Additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected.During 2011, PT Freeport Indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in July 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in December 2011. The strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. In mid-December 2011, the financial terms of a new two-year labor agreement for PT Freeport Indonesia were reached and the parties agreed that future wage negotiations would be based on living costs and the competitiveness of wages within Indonesia. Although a new labor agreement has been reached, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at PT Freeport Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. Certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. On February 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily 48Table of Contentssuspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. We are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. Refer to Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion.In fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at Cerro Verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. The strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late December 2011.If we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. Our operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Our operations in North and South America are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines depends on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims. At our North America operations, our water rights give us only the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. In Arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the state of Arizona has been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems that affect four of our operating mines (Morenci, Safford, Sierrita and Miami). The legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our Bagdad mine. Groundwater has historically been treated separately from surface water under Arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will,  subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. However, court decisions in recent years have concluded that if groundwater pumping produces or affects surface water, then such pumping requires surface water rights and is subject to the general stream adjudications. The effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water is currently the focus of one of those adjudications.In Colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the Climax molybdenum mine. In New Mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated.Water for our Cerro Verde mining operation comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned Cerro Verde operations. Cerro Verde has been conducting water studies to assess opportunities for additional supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. In 2011, Cerro Verde reached an agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Arequipa S.A. (SEDAPAR) and other local institutions to allow Cerro Verde to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant, should it proceed with plans for a large-scale concentrator expansion. Once Cerro Verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion.Water for our El Abra mining operation comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer. In 2010, El Abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. We believe that El Abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations, however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our sulfide groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. El Abra is also conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. Water for our Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations is drawn from the Copiapó River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, Candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. During 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to convey reclaimed water from a nearby water treatment facility to our 49Table of ContentsCandelaria mine. We have also completed engineering and began construction for a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean that will supply Candelaria's longer term water needs. The plant is expected to be completed in early 2013.Although we believe each operation has sufficient water rights and claims to cover current operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. The loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, or physical shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or close mining operations and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. Increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow.Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. For the year 2011, energy represented approximately 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. An inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. Our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires, explosives and diluents. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. Increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects.In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area.The Grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of Indonesia. Because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster.In October 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the Grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. In December 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. The events caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans; normal production activities resumed in second-quarter 2004.In March 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting PT Freeport Indonesia's mining facilities. Three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. The material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. As a result of investigations by PT Freeport Indonesia and the Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. The existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded.In September 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our Grasberg open pit. There were no injuries or property damage. The event caused a delay in our access to the high-grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods.In April 2011, two PT Freeport Indonesia employees died in an accident when a portion of the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. The area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident.No assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future.In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Africa mining operation involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the DRC.The Tenke Fungurume minerals district is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to additional challenges, including:50Table of Contents•Severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance;•Limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained;•Challenges in obtaining experienced personnel;•Security risks; and•Limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria and cholera.Additionally, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the Tenke mine approximately 1,900 miles to ports in South Africa. The Tenke Fungurume minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development.The volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. Our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Age of 1934, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. Estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth or our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. In addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. A sustained decrease in commodity prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. These factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. There are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from mill and leach stockpiles. The quantity of copper delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. Accordingly, the volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and copper recovered from stockpiles may be less than anticipated.We must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries.Our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability. Produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. Exploration is highly speculative in nature. Our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. 51Table of ContentsDevelopment projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and estimated future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can adversely affect project economics. Moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. Therefore, it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. Refer to Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion of our current development projects.New development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. These development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. It is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in capital expenditures. The development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following:•Unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; •Challenges related to hiring and training personnel required for underground mining activities; •Larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and •Unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods.  Some of these risks could result in delays to production startup and a loss or reduction in minable tons. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Environmental risksOur domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs.Our mining operations and exploration activities, both in the U.S. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, and increased demand for remediation services leading to shortages of equipment, supplies and labor, as well as other factors. Recent examples of these trends include EPA's June 2010,  promulgation of a new sulphur dioxide ambient air standard and EPA's efforts to curtail the exemption of mining operations from waste management regulation under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. These and other such actions could have a significant impact on our operational compliance and closure costs. In addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years.Freeport-McMoRan Corporation (FMC, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the U.S. for more than a century. Activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before American industrial 52Table of Contentscompanies understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. With the passage of CERCLA in 1980, companies like FMC became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. That liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. As a result, because of our acquisition of FMC in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the U.S., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. We are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. At December 31, 2011, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the U.S. in 27 states.At December 31, 2011, we had $1.5 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to CERCLA or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. Our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: •Our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago; •Our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and •Our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. Significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. The actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of our environmental obligations.During 2011, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $387 million, compared with $372 million in 2010 and $289 million in 2009. For 2012, we expect to incur approximately $636 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. The timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities, and as actual spending occurs.An adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us.As described in Note 13, we are a defendant in numerous, and in some cases significant, litigation matters involving alleged environmental contamination, alleged environmental toxic torts and complex interpretations of environmental regulations. An adverse ruling in one or more of those matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.Our Indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs.Mining operations on the scale of our Indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the Indonesian government, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. Lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the 53Table of Contentsfootprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands.Another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. In the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment.From time to time, certain Indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. Because our Indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical.In connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the Indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. We completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the Indonesian government in December 2002. We developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the Indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. The risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents.Since 2005, PT Freeport Indonesia has participated in the Government of Indonesia's PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating) program. In November 2011, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment announced the latest results of its PROPER environmental management audit, but did not provide a rating for PT Freeport Indonesia because of the strike and security conditions that existed during 2011.  In 2010, the Indonesia Ministry of Environment issued a Blue rating acknowledging PT Freeport Indonesia's environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in Indonesia. Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. Our U.S. operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. These requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. In general, our U.S. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. It is uncertain how potential EPA requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. Our international mines are also subject to various mine closure and mined-land reclamation laws. In July 2011, the Chilean senate passed legislation relating to mine closure, which establishes new requirements for closure plans and becomes effective in November 2012. As a result, our Chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. We cannot predict at this time the costs of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required. At December 31, 2011, we had asset retirement obligations (AROs) of $921 million recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. ARO cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure or financial assurance regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion.54Table of ContentsRegulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets.Many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, potentially contribute to climate change. In 2011, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately 10 million metric tons, divided between direct (54 percent) and indirect (46 percent) emissions. Most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. Indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. Approximately 56 percent of our direct emissions are in Indonesia, 28 percent in North America and 10 percent in South America. Approximately 58 percent of our indirect emissions are in North America and 40 percent in South America.  A number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the U.S. several of these regulatory changes are being challenged at both the federal and state levels. In September 2009, the EPA issued final regulations requiring monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in specified circumstances. Those regulations became effective in 2010. Our Miami smelter and El Paso refinery have reported their emissions under this program. In June 2010, the EPA issued final regulations under the Clean Air Act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. Certain of our operations, including the Miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations, as these regulations and anticipated EPA regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. Several states have initiated action on their own or as part of regional organizations, such as the Western Climate Initiative, to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our U.S. operations. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that ratified the Protocol. Although the U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in December 2012, the U.S. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. Since 2006, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. In 2009, we formed a multi-departmental greenhouse gas task force to pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including evaluating potential reductions in emissions from our haul trucks. However, because of longer and steeper mining hauls as our open pits expand and deepen, and increases in use of electricity as we increase production capacity, we expect increases in our total greenhouse gas emissions.From a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations.Our operating, inactive and historical U.S. mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations.Federal and state agencies have considered proposing new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. For example, the EPA could promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (TENORM) and their impacts at mining operations. In addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. Radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations. Accordingly, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation. The impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain.55Table of ContentsOther risksIf market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long-lived assets may be impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material.Declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, could cause us to record lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory adjustments and could also result in a write-down of the carrying value of long-lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders' equity, but would have no effect on cash flows.During fourth-quarter 2008, we concluded that the then-current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment.  As a result, we recorded significant impairment and LCM inventory charges. Refer to Item 6. "Selected Financial Data" for a summary of these charges. Unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We are a party to the litigation described in Note 13 and in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at Superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. If any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business.Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. A loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected.Our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends.We are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. In addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the U.S.In addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors.56Table of ContentsAnti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult.Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. These provisions:•Authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us;•Establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings;•Limit removal of directors for cause only;•Limit who may call stockholder meetings; and•Require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors.In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us.These provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.Item 1B