ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. Management of each Registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the Registrants' businesses and reviews those risks with the FirstEnergy Board of Directors or appropriate Committees of the Board. The following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating FirstEnergy. These risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. Below, we have identified risks we currently consider material. Additional information on risk factors is included in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Registrant and Subsidiaries” and in other sections of this Form 10-K that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results.Risks Related to Business OperationsWe Have Taken a Series of Actions to Reposition our Asset Mix to Reflect a More Regulated Business Profile Focusing on Growing Our Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission Operations and Earnings. Whether This Repositioning Will Deliver the Desired Result is Subject to Certain Risks Which Could Adversely Affect Profitability and our Financial Condition in the Future As a result of continuing weak economic conditions and depressed energy prices across our multi-state business territory, we have implemented a strategy to capitalize on growth opportunities available to our regulated operations - particularly in transmission. This strategy will involve continuing to reposition our asset mix over the next several years to reflect a more regulated business profile, and to target more than 80% of our earnings from our Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission segments. In connection with this repositioning, we intend to initiate distribution rate cases for certain of our distribution utility subsidiaries and grow our regulated transmission business, focusing first on ATSI, which has a formula rate recovery mechanism, but also extending throughout our service area. Our transmission expansion plan is designed to improve operating flexibility, increase reliability, position transmission capacity for future load growth and facilitate response to system events. The success of our repositioning strategy will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. Factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments may include: (1) whether the investments are included in PJM's regional transmission expansion plan; (2) FERC's evolving policies with respect to incentive rates for transmission assets; (3) FERC's consideration of the objections of those who oppose such investments and their recovery; and (4) timely development, construction, and operation of the new facilities. See "The Business Operations of Our Regulated Transmission Segment and Certain Activities of Our Competitive Energy Services Segment Are Subject to Regulation by FERC and Could be Adversely Affected by Such Regulation" below. The success of this repositioning strategy will also depend, in part, on our achieving positive outcomes in distribution rate cases we have filed or will file. Adverse regulatory outcomes in the distribution rate cases (denial of cost recovery and/or imposition of conditions that create operational risk) and/or regulatory delays could have a material adverse effect on our regulatory strategy. See “State Rate Regulation May Delay or Deny Full Recovery of Costs and Impose Risks on Our Operations. Any Denial of or Delay in, Cost Recovery Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition” below.  Our repositioning strategy also could be impacted by our ability to finance the proposed expansion projects while maintaining adequate liquidity. There can be no assurance that the repositioning of our business to focus on our Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission segments will deliver the desired result which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.Risks Arising from the Reliability of Our Power Plants and Transmission and Distribution EquipmentOperation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, human error in operations or maintenance, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. In addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties.Operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operation and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. Unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. Unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our sales obligations. Moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, including, but not limited to, our coal and coal transportation contracts, penalties or liability for damages could result.27FES, FG and the Ohio Companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. Although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, FES, FG and the Ohio Companies have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.274 billion for FES and $485 million for OE and an aggregate of $267 million for TE and CEI as co-lessees.We remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. Failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes.Changes in Commodity Prices Including, but Not Limited to Natural Gas, Could Adversely Affect Our Profit MarginsWe purchase and sell electricity in the competitive retail and wholesale markets. Increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. Competition and changes in the short or long-term market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by decreasing sales margins or increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to satisfy our sales obligations in the states we do business. We are exposed to risk from the volatility of the market price of natural gas. Our ability to sell at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas. As the price of natural gas falls, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may need to curtail operation of marginal plants. The availability of natural gas and issues related to its accessibility may have a long-term material impact on the price of natural gas. In addition, the global economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices.Electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially for a variety of reasons, including:•changing weather conditions or seasonality;•changes in electricity usage by our customers caused in part by energy and efficiency mandates and demand response initiatives;•illiquidity and credit worthiness of participants in wholesale power and other markets;•transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies;•availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources;•changes in supply and demand for energy commodities, including but not limited to, coal, natural gas and oil;•changes in power production capacity;•outages, deactivations and retirements at our power production facilities or those of our competitors;•changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, such as that which could result from the natural gas produced in the Marcellus and Utica regions, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products resulting in over or under supply;•changes in legislation and regulation; and•natural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events.We Are Exposed to Operational, Price and Credit Risks Associated With Selling and Marketing Products in the Power Markets That We Do Not Always Completely Hedge AgainstWe purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based rate tariffs authorized by FERC, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy.We attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. We may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price 28volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected.The Use of Derivative Contracts by Us to Mitigate Risks Could Result in Financial Losses That May Negatively Impact Our Financial ResultsWe use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. Also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. See "The Stability of Counterparties Could Adversely Affect Us" below.Financial Derivatives Reforms Could Increase Our Liquidity Needs and Collateral Costs and Impose Additional Regulatory BurdensThe Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) was enacted into law in July 2010 with the primary objective  of increasing oversight of the United States financial system including the regulation of most financial transactions, swaps and derivatives. Dodd-Frank requires CFTC and SEC rulemaking to implement its provisions. Although the CFTC and the SEC have completed some of their rulemaking, a significant amount of rulemaking remains.  We rely on the OTC derivative markets as part of our program to hedge the price risk associated with our power portfolio. The effect on our operations of this legislation will depend in part on whether we are determined to be a swap dealer, a major swap participant or a qualifying end-user through a self-identification process. The overall impact of those regulations may be reduced but not eliminated for companies that participate in the swap market as "end-users" for hedging purposes. If we are determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, we will be required to commit substantial additional capital toward collateral costs to meet the margin requirements of the major exchanges, comply with increased reporting and record-keeping requirements and follow CFTC-specified business conduct standards.Even if we are not determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, as an end-user, we are required to comply with additional regulatory obligations under Dodd-Frank, which includes record-keeping, reporting requirements and the clearing of some transactions that we would otherwise enter into over-the-counter. Also, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral OTC swap market to decrease. The new rules could impede our ability to meet our hedge targets in a cost-effective manner. FirstEnergy cannot predict the ultimate impact Dodd-Frank rulemaking will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position.Our Risk Management Policies Relating to Energy and Fuel Prices, and Counterparty Credit, Are by Their Very Nature Risk Related, and We Could Suffer Economic Losses Despite Such PoliciesWe attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. Procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. Nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposure in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. For example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. Also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. In addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. As a result, actual events may lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge.Our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. These factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be adversely affected if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate.We also face credit risks from parties with whom we contract who could default in their performance. See "The Stability of Counterparties Could Adversely Affect Us" below.Nuclear Generation Involves Risks that Include Uncertainties Relating to Health and Safety, Additional Capital Costs, the Adequacy of Insurance Coverage and Nuclear Plant Decommissioning, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition29We are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following:•the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life, resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials;•limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations, including any incidents of unplanned radiological release, or those of others in the United States;•uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and•uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of spent fuel storage and decommissioning nuclear plants, including but not limited to, waste disposal at the end of their licensed operation and increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of completion.The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. Also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. See "Potential NRC Regulation in Response to the Incident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Condition" below and Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies - Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Any one of these risks relating to our nuclear generation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.The Outcome of Litigation, Arbitration, Mediation, and Similar Proceedings, Involving Our Business, or That of One or More of Our Operating Subsidiaries, is Unpredictable and an Adverse Decision in Any Material Proceeding Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Position and Results of Operations.We are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings including, but not limited to, such proceedings relating to our fuel and fuel transportation contracts. These matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of any of these material matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. Any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results.We Have a Significant Percentage of Coal-Fired Generation Capacity Which Exposes Us to Risk from Regulations Relating to Coal and Coal Combustion ResidualsApproximately 55% of FirstEnergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired. Historically, coal-fired generating plants have greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to emissions of SO2 and NOx than other types of generation facilities. The MATS established coal-fired emission standards for mercury, PM and HCL, effective in April 2015. In addition, the EPA has proposed regulations that include an option to reclassify coal combustion residuals as a "special" hazardous waste. There are also a number of federal, state and international initiatives under consideration to, among other things, require reductions in GHG emissions, including a September 20, 2013, EPA proposed new source performance standard that would require partial carbon capture and storage for newly constructed coal-fired generating plants. On June 25, 2013, a Presidential Memorandum further directed the EPA to propose by June 1, 2014 and complete by June 1, 2015, GHG emission standards for existing fossil fuel generating units. These legal requirements and initiatives could impose substantial additional costs, extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of GHG requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. Failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. Significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements.Capital Market Performance and Other Changes May Decrease the Value of Pension Fund Assets, Decommissioning and Other Trust Funds, Which Then Could Require Significant Additional FundingOur financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other postemployment benefit plans. Certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. Changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. If the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other obligations, requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. 30Capital market conditions that generate investment losses or increase the present value of liabilities can negatively impact our results of operations and financial position.We Could be Subject to Higher Costs and/or Penalties Related to Mandatory Reliability Standards Set by NERC/FERC or Changes in the Rules of Organized MarketsOwners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and approved by FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. NERC, RFC and FERC can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. Compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. FERC has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1.0 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards.In addition to direct regulation by FERC, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs and ISOs. Although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by FERC, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, the independent market monitors of ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the perceived potential for exercise of market power and to ensure the market functions. Such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. In addition, PJM may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet PJM's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the PJM open access transmission tariff.We Rely on Transmission and Distribution Assets That We Do Not Own or Control to Deliver Our Wholesale Electricity. If Transmission is Disrupted, Including Our Own Transmission, or Not Operated Efficiently, or if Capacity is Inadequate, Our Ability to Sell and Deliver Power May Be HinderedWe depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. If transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by ISOs and RTOs, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. In addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. If we are unable to hedge or recover such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected.Demand for electricity within our Utilities’ service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to our results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or FERC requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures that we may be unable to recover fully or at all.FERC requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether ISOs or RTOs in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently.Disruptions in Our Fuel Supplies or Changes in Our Fuel Needs Could Occur, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Operate Our Generation Facilities or Impact Financial ResultsWe purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. The lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. Operation of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. We have long-term contracts in place for a majority of our coal and coal transportation needs, some of which run through 2032 and certain of which relate to deactivated plants. We have asserted force majeure defenses for delivery shortfalls under certain agreements and we are in discussions with the applicable counterparties. We can provide no assurance that these agreements will be favorably resolved with respect to certain unresolved aspects of the agreements. If we fail to reach a resolution with applicable counterparties and if it were ultimately determined that, contrary to our belief, the force majeure provision or other defenses do not excuse delivery shortfalls, the results of operations and financial condition of both FirstEnergy and FES could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, we may from time to time enter into new, or renegotiate certain of these contracts, but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, if prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 31Temperature Variations as well as Weather Conditions or other Natural Disasters Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Demand Significantly Below or Above Our Forecasts Could Adversely Affect Our Energy MarginsWeather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. Demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. Overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, such as Hurricane Sandy, ice or snowstorms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. We satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. A significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at fixed rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. A significant decrease in demand, resulting from factors including but not limited to increased customer shopping, more stringent energy efficiency mandates and increased demand response initiatives could cause a decrease in the market price of power. Accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.We Are Subject to Financial Performance Risks Related to Regional and General Economic Cycles and also Related to Heavy Manufacturing Industries such as Automotive and SteelOur business follows economic cycles. Economic conditions are a determinant of the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. The regional economy in which our Utilities operate is influenced by conditions in industries in our business territories, e.g. shale gas, automotive, chemical, steel and other heavy industries, and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. Additionally, the primary market areas of our Competitive Energy Services segment overlap, to a large degree, with our Utilities' territories and hence its revenues are substantially impacted by the same economic conditions.Increases in Economic Uncertainty May Lead to a Greater Amount of Uncollectible Customer AccountsOur operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories and those conditions could negatively impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts and our collections of accounts receivable which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We May Recognize Impairments of Recorded Goodwill or of Some of Our Long-Lived Assets, Which Would Result in Write-Offs of the Impaired Amounts and Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Results of OperationsGoodwill could become impaired at one or more of our reportable segments. In addition, one or more of our long-lived assets could become impaired. The actual timing and amounts of any impairments in future years would depend on many factors, including interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, natural gas or other commodity prices, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors.We Face Certain Human Resource Risks Associated with Potential Labor Disruptions and/or With the Availability of Trained and Qualified Labor to Meet Our Future Staffing RequirementsWe must find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. Further, a significant number of our physical workforce are represented by unions and while we believe that our relations with our employees are generally fair, we cannot provide assurances that the company will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any existing labor disruption will be favorably resolved. Mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to retain or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business.Significant Increases in Our Operation and Maintenance Expenses, Including Our Health Care and Pension Costs, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Earnings and LiquidityWe continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. We expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in the areas of health care and pension costs. We have experienced significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include investment 32returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. If actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased.Our Results May be Adversely Affected by the Volatility in Pension and OPEB Expenses.FirstEnergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its defined Pension and OPEB plans. This adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, which could result in greater volatility in pension and OPEB expenses and may materially impact our results of operations under GAAP.Security Breaches, Including Cybersecurity Breaches, and Other Disruptions Could Compromise Our Business Operations and Critical and Proprietary Information and Expose Us to Liability, Which Could Adversely Affect our Business, Financial Condition and ReputationIn the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary information regarding our business, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and other individuals in our data centers and on our networks. Additionally, we use and are dependent upon information technology systems that utilize sophisticated operational systems and network infrastructure to run all facets of our generation, transmission and distribution services. The secure maintenance of information and information technology systems is critical to our operations. Despite security measures we have employed, including certain measures implemented pursuant to mandatory NERC Critical Infrastructure Protection standards, our infrastructure may be increasingly vulnerable to attacks by hackers or terrorists as a result of the rise in the sophistication and volume of cyber attacks. Also, our information and information technology systems may be breached due to viruses, human error, malfeasance or other malfunctions and disruptions. Any such attack or breach could: (i) compromise our generation, transmission and distribution services, development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects; (ii) adversely affect our customer operations; (iii) corrupt data; or (iv) result in unauthorized access to the information stored on our networks, including personal customer data, causing the information to be publicly disclosed, lost or stolen or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life.. Although FirstEnergy carries property and casualty insurance that may mitigate the potential impact of a cyber incident, any such attack, breach, access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in lost revenue, the inability to conduct critical business functions and serve customers, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, increased regulation, increased protection costs for enhanced cyber security systems or personnel, damage to our reputation and/or the rendering of our disclosure controls and procedures ineffective, all of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Physical Acts of War, Terrorism or Other Attacks on any of Our Facilities or Other Infrastructure Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial ConditionAs a result of the continued threat of physical acts of war, terrorism, or other attacks in the United States, our electric generation, fuel storage, transmission and distribution facilities and other infrastructure, including nuclear and other power plants, transformer and high voltage lines and substations, or the facilities or other infrastructure of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war, terrorism, or a cyber or other attack, which could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity, otherwise disrupt our customer operations and/or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. Any such disruption or incident could result in a significant decrease in revenue, significant additional capital and operating costs, including additional costs to implement additional security systems or personnel to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets over and above any available insurance reimbursement, higher insurance deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive insurance policies, generally, and significant damage to our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Capital Improvements and Construction Projects May Not be Completed Within Forecasted Budget, Schedule or Scope Parameters or Could be Canceled Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of OperationsOur business plan calls for extensive capital investments in electric generation, transmission and distribution, including but not limited to our recently announced transmission expansion program. We may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction, nonperformance of equipment and increased costs due to delays, including delays relating to the procurement of permits or approvals, adverse weather or environmental matters. We engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of construction agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Such risk could include our contractors’ inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. Also, because we enter into construction agreements for the necessary materials and to obtain the required construction related services, any cancellation by FirstEnergy of a construction agreement could result in significant termination payments or penalties. Any delays, increased costs or losses or cancellation of a 33construction project could adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly if we are not permitted to recover any such costs in rates.Changes in Technology and Regulatory Policies May Significantly Affect Our Generation Business by Making Our Generating Facilities Less CompetitiveWe primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. This method results in economies of scale and lower unit costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in technologies will reduce costs of new technology and/or changes in regulatory policy will create benefits that make these new technologies more competitive with central station electricity production. Such advances in technologies and/or changes in regulatory policy could decrease sales and revenues from our existing generation assets, and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. To the extent that new generation technologies are connected directly to load, bypassing the transmission and distribution systems, potential impacts could include decreased transmission and distribution revenues, stranded assets and increased uncertainty in load forecasting and integrated resource planning.We May Acquire Assets That Could Present Unanticipated Issues for Our Business in the Future, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Realize Anticipated Benefits of Those AcquisitionsAsset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition.Certain FirstEnergy Companies May Not be Able to Meet Their Obligations to or on behalf of Other FirstEnergy Companies or their AffiliatesCertain of the FirstEnergy companies have obligations to other FirstEnergy companies because of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services and hedging transactions. If one FirstEnergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other FirstEnergy entities could incur losses. Their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting FirstEnergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. Our hedging activities are generally undertaken with a view to overall FirstEnergy exposures. Some FirstEnergy companies may therefore be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone. Also, some companies affiliated with FirstEnergy also provide guarantees to third party creditors on behalf of other FirstEnergy affiliates under transactions of the type described above or under financing transactions. Any failure to perform under such a guarantee by the affiliated FirstEnergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the FirstEnergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both FirstEnergy companies or their affiliates.Certain FirstEnergy Companies Have Guaranteed the Performance of Third Parties, Which May Result in Substantial Costs in the Event of Non-Performance  Certain FirstEnergy Companies have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligates such FirstEnergy Companies to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. FirstEnergy is a guarantor under a syndicated three-year senior secured term loan facility due October 18, 2015, under which Global Holding borrowed $350 million in connection with the repayment of a prior term loan facility under which Signal Peak and Global Rail were borrowers. In the event of non-performance by the third parties, FirstEnergy could incur substantial cost to fulfill the obligations under such guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results.Energy Companies are Subject to Adverse Publicity Which Make Them Vulnerable to Negative Regulatory and Legislative OutcomesEnergy companies, including FirstEnergy's utility subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. Adverse publicity of this nature, or adverse publicity associated with our nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business.Risks Associated With RegulationTo the Extent Our Policies to Control Costs Designed to Mitigate Low Energy, Capacity and Market Prices are Unsuccessful, We Could Experience a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial ConditionThe May 2013 PJM RPM auction for 2016/2017 capacity produced prices in the region served by our competitive generation segment that were lower than expected. This result may be a broader indication of an underlying supply/demand imbalance that continues to affect power producers in this region, adding pressure on already depressed energy prices and potentially pushing any significant power price recovery further into the future than we, or the industry at large, previously expected. As we experience these trends, as part of our ongoing comprehensive review of competitive operations related to, among other things, plant economics, since 2012 we have deactivated more than 5,000 MW of competitive generation. To the extent our policies designed to control our 34costs, or other facets of our financial plan, are unsuccessful, we could experience a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Complex and Changing Government Regulations, Including Those Associated With Rates and Pending Rate Cases Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of OperationsWe are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. Changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Our transmission and operating utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by the FERC or by one or more of the state regulatory commissions in which our utility subsidiaries operate. Also, these rates may not be set to recover the Utility's expenses at any given time. Additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. For example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments, expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. While rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. Further, there can be no assurance that we will retain the expected recovery in future rate cases.State Rate Regulation May Delay or Deny Full Recovery of Costs and Impose Risks on Our Operations. Any Denial of or Delay in, Cost Recovery Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition.Each of the Utilities' retail rates is set by its respective regulatory agency for utilities in the state in which it operates - in Maryland by the MDPSC, in Ohio by the PUCO, in New Jersey by the NJBPU, in Pennsylvania by the PPUC, in West Virginia by the WVPSC and in New York by the NYPSC through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. As a result, any of the Utilities may not be permitted to recover its costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. Factors that may affect outcomes in the distribution rate cases include: (i) the value of plant in service; (ii) authorized rate of return; (iii) capital structure (including hypothetical capital structures); (iv) depreciation rates; (v) the allocation of shared costs, including consolidated tax, across the FirstEnergy utilities; (vi) regulatory approval of rate recovery mechanisms for capital spending programs (including for example accelerated deployment of smart meters); and (vii) the accuracy of forecasts used for ratemaking purposes in "future test year" cases. FirstEnergy can provide no assurance that any base rate request filed by any of the Utilities, including the pending JCP&L base rate case and the anticipated WVPSC base rate case, will be granted in whole or in part, or as to when it will receive a decision on such requests. Any denial of, or delay in, any base rate request could restrict the applicable Utility from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on its operations, and may negatively impact its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that any of the Utilities seeks rate increases after an extended period of frozen or capped rates, pressure may be exerted on the applicable legislators and regulators to take steps to control rate increases, including through some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. Any related public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues that are ultimately obtained, and the ability of the Utility to recover costs. Such uncertainty may restrict operational flexibility and resources, and reduce liquidity and increase financing costs.Any Denial of, or Delay in, Cost Recovery Resulting from JCP&L's Pending Base Rate Case or in Association with the Generic Storm Proceeding Before the NJBPU May Impose Risks on our Operations and May Negatively Impact our Credit Rating, Results of Operations and Financial ConditionOur distribution rates in New Jersey are set by the NJBPU through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. As a result, JCP&L may not be able to recover all of its increased, unexpected or necessary costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. Pursuant to the written Order of the NJBPU dated July 31, 2012, requiring JCP&L to file a base rate case to determine whether its rates are just and reasonable, JCP&L filed its base rate case petition on November 30, 2012. In a subsequent filing, JCP&L updated its petition to request recovery for the impact of Hurricane Sandy. However, the NJBPU in its written Order dated May 31, 2013, held that the 2011 major storm costs would be reviewed expeditiously in a generic proceeding with the goal of maintaining the base rate case schedule established by the ALJ where recovery of such costs would be addressed, and the 2012 major storm costs would be reviewed in the generic proceeding and the recovery of such costs would be considered through a Phase II in the existing base rate case or through another appropriate method to be determined at the conclusion of the generic proceeding.We can provide no assurance that JCP&L's request to increase rates in its pending base rate case, or any future proceeding, will be granted in whole or in part, or when it will receive a decision on such requests from the NJBPU. Any denial of, or delay in, its request to increase rates in the pending base rate case or to recover costs associated with Hurricane Sandy and other 2011 or 2012 major storms could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Any denial of, or delay in, the request to increase rates embodied in an Order from the NJBPU resulting from the base rate case could restrict it from fully recovering its 35costs of service, may impose risks on our operations, and may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Also, the uncertainty regarding JCP&L's pending rate case and generic storm proceedings have already led to adverse credit rating agency action, and could lead to further adverse rating agency actions in the future.The Conditions Imposed by the WVPSC on MP’s Completion of its Generation Resource Transaction and the Pending Appeal of the Related WVPSC Approval Order Could Present Challenges for Our Business in the Future, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Realize Anticipated Benefits of that TransactionThe Generation Resource Transaction was completed on October 9, 2013, subject to certain conditions imposed by the WVPSC in its approval order issued on October 7, 2013. One of those conditions permits a return on, and return of, an acquisition adjustment only to the extent that 50% of the net margins from off-system transactions from the additional Harrison capacity acquired by MP will support that return requirement. MP’s ability to satisfy this condition may depend on a variety of factors, including the future operating performance of the Harrison Power Station, commodity prices, general economic conditions and financial and business conditions, which may be subject, in part, to factors beyond MP’s and FirstEnergy’s control. Any of these factors could adversely affect MP’s ability to satisfy this condition and could have an adverse effect on MP’s and FirstEnergy’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, on November 6, 2013, the WVCAG filed a petition with the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia appealing the WVPSC’s October 7, 2013 order approving the Generation Resource Transaction. MP and FirstEnergy intend to defend vigorously the approval order before the Court, but are unable to predict the effect of any unfavorable outcome that might result from this appeal, but such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on MP’s and FirstEnergy’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Regulatory Changes in the Electric Industry Could Affect Our Competitive Position and Result in Unrecoverable Costs Adversely Affecting Our Business and Results of OperationsAs a result of regulatory initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the United States, including the states in which we do business. These changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities and competitive energy providers conduct their business. FERC and the U.S. Congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. Similarly, the PUCO and PPUC have in recent years instituted investigations in Ohio and Pennsylvania, respectively, to evaluate the vitality of, and to make recommendations for improvements to, the competitive retail markets in those states. If any regulatory efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the extent or timing of further regulatory efforts to modify our business or the industry.The Business Operations of Our Regulated Transmission Segment and Certain Activities of Our Competitive Energy Services Segment Are Subject to Regulation by FERC and Could be Adversely Affected by Such RegulationFERC granted certain FirstEnergy generating subsidiaries authority to sell electricity at market-based rates. These orders also granted waivers of certain FERC accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as, waivers of the requirements to obtain FERC approval for issuances of securities. FERC’s orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve to FERC the right to revoke or revise that authority if FERC subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, or create barriers to entry, or have engaged in prohibited affiliate transactions. In the event that one or more of FirstEnergy's market-based rate authorizations were to be revoked or adversely revised, the affected FirstEnergy subsidiary(ies) would be required to file with FERC for authorization of individual wholesale sales transactions, which could involve costly and possibly lengthy regulatory proceedings. In addition, such subsidiary(ies) would no longer enjoy the flexibility afforded by the waivers associated with the current market-based rate authorizations. FERC policy currently permits recovery of prudently-incurred costs associated with the expansion and updating of transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. If FERC were to adopt a different policy regarding recovery of transmission costs or if transmission needs do not continue or develop as projected, our strategy of investing in transmission could be curtailed. If FERC were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for FirstEnergy's transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact FirstEnergy’s financial condition.  There Are Uncertainties Relating to Our Participation in RTOsRTO rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets The rules governing the various regional power markets may change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. In some cases these changes are contrary to our interests and adverse to our financial returns. The prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets and RTO capacity markets have been volatile and RTO rules may contribute to this volatility. All of our generating assets currently participate only in PJM, which conducts RPM auctions for capacity on an annual planning year basis. The prices our generating companies can charge for their capacity are determined by the results of the PJM auctions, which are impacted by the supply and demand of capacity resources and load within PJM and also may be impacted by transmission 36system constraints and PJM rules relating to bidding for demand response, energy efficiency resources, and imports, among others. Auction prices could fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. We cannot predict the outcome of future auctions, but if the auction prices are sustained at low levels, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted. We incur fees and costs to participate in RTOs. Administrative costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy markets, may increase. To the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an RTO, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, we may suffer financial harm.We may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. We may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an RTO rather than our own internal planning processes. Various proposals and proceedings currently taking place at the FERC may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. In addition, RTOs have been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on us.  As a member of an RTO, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that RTO’s market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the RTO that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members.Energy Efficiency and Peak Demand Reduction Mandates and Energy Price Increases Could Negatively Impact Our Financial ResultsA number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption. Conservation programs could impact our financial results in different ways. To the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our competitive generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. We currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery time frame in the states where we operate. In New Jersey, we recover the costs for energy efficiency programs through the SBC. Currently only our Ohio Companies recover lost revenues. In our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. Should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. We could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. Our results could be adversely affected if we are unable to increase our customer’s participation in our energy efficiency programs. We are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations.Our Business and Activities are Subject to Extensive Environmental Requirements and Could be Adversely Affected by such RequirementsAs a result of a comprehensive review of FirstEnergy's coal-fired generating facilities in light of the MATS rules and other expanded environmental requirements, we deactivated twenty-one (21) older coal-fired generating units in 2012 and 2013, and intend to deactivate five (5) additional older coal-fired generating units when RMR requirements terminate. We may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical.The EPA is Conducting NSR Investigations at a Number of Generating Plants that We Currently or Formerly Owned, the Results of Which Could Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations and Financial ConditionWe may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of EPA's NSR programs. Under the CAA, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities.The EPA has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of NSR standards in connection with work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. We are currently involved in litigation and EPA investigations concerning alleged violations of the NSR standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. We intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position but we are unable to predict their outcomes. If NSR and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For a more complete discussion see Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies - Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.37Costs of Compliance with Environmental Laws are Significant, and the Cost of Compliance with Future Environmental Laws, Including Limitations on GHG Emissions, Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow and ProfitabilityOur operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. On December 21, 2011, the EPA finalized the MATS to establish emission standards for, among other things, mercury, PM and HCL, for electric generating units. The costs associated with MATS compliance, and other environmental laws, is substantial and contributed to the Company's decision to deactivate twenty-one (21) older coal-fired generating units in 2012 and 2013 and plans to deactivate five (5) additional coal-fired generating units when RMR requirements terminate. MATS is also being challenged by numerous entities, including FG, in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Depending on the outcome of these legal proceedings and how MATS and other EPA regulations are ultimately implemented, MP's, FG's and AE Supply's future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to FirstEnergy's operations may result.Moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to MATS, or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. Because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. Our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. In addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations.There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. Environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the United States and elsewhere are focusing considerable attention on CO2 emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. There is a growing consensus in the United States and globally that GHG emissions are a major cause of global warming and that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to GHG emissions (including CO2) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. As a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. Due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce GHG emissions, including CO2, as well as the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. In addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. The impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is not determinable, but potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations.See Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies - Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the above-referenced EPA regulations and the federal, state and international initiatives seeking to reduce GHG emissions.We Could be Exposed to Private Rights of Action Seeking Damages Under Various State and Federal Law TheoriesClaims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that CO2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. As a result, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury or property damages. While FirstEnergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in actions making similar allegations. An unfavorable ruling in any such case could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our operations.Various Federal and State Water Regulations May Require Us to Make Material Capital ExpendituresThe EPA has proposed regulatory changes, specifically, eight treatment options for waste water discharge from electric power plants, of which four are "preferred" by the agency. The preferred options range from more stringent chemical and biological treatment requirements to zero discharge requirements and the EPA is scheduled to finalize these regulatory changes in May 2014. The EPA has also established performance standards under the CWA for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants, specifically, impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system). In 2011, the EPA proposed new regulations under the CWA which generally require fish impingement to be reduced to a 12% annual average and calls for studies to be conducted at the majority of our existing generating facilities to assist permitting authorities to determine whether and what site-specific controls, if any, would be required to reduce entrainment of aquatic life. FirstEnergy is studying the cost and effectiveness of various control options to divert fish away from its plants' cooling water intake systems. Depending on the results of such studies and the EPA's further rulemaking and any final action taken by the 38states, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. See Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies - Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the various federal and state water quality regulations listed above.Compliance with any Coal Combustion Residual Regulations Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial ConditionWe are subject to various federal and state solid, non-hazardous and hazardous waste regulations. The EPA has requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non-hazardous waste.The EPA asserted that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry and has proposed two options for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPA's hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FirstEnergy's future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations that may be issued could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the states. Compliance with those regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. See Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies - Environmental Matters of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Remediation of Environmental Contamination at Current or Formerly Owned FacilitiesWe may be subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. We are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances have been deposited and we may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Remediation activities associated with our former MGP operations are one source of such costs. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material.In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee.We Are and May Become Subject to Legal Claims Arising from the Presence of Asbestos or Other Regulated Substances at Some of Our FacilitiesWe have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. In addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. We believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. The continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us.Availability and Cost of Emission Allowances Could Negatively Impact Our Costs of OperationsAlthough recent court rulings and current conditions have reduced the immediate risk of a negative impact on our operating costs, the uncertainty around CAA programs and requirements continue to be a major concern. We are still required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission allowances to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. These allowances are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws. If our operational needs require more than our allocated allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allowances, or install costly new emission controls. As we use the emission allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. If such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such allowances could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets.Mandatory Renewable Portfolio Requirements Could Negatively Affect Our CostsIf federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation would not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including 39REC purchase costs, purchased power and capital expenditures. Any such changes may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.The Continuing Availability and Operation of Generating Units is Dependent on Retaining or Renewing the Necessary Licenses, Permits, and Operating Authority from Governmental Entities, Including the NRCWe are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed.Potential NRC Regulation in Response to the Incident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial ConditionAs a result of the NRC's investigation of the incident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, the NRC has begun to promulgate new or revised requirements with respect to nuclear plants located in the United States, which could necessitate additional expenditures at our nuclear plants. For example, as a follow up to the NRC near-term Task Force's review and analysis of the Fukushima Daiichi accident, in January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the task force. The NRC has also issued orders and guidance that increases procedural and testing requirements, requires physical modifications to our plants and is expected to increase future compliance and operating costs. These reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. It is also possible that the NRC could suspend or otherwise delay pending nuclear relicensing proceedings, including the Davis-Besse relicensing proceeding. The impact of any such regulatory actions could adversely affect FirstEnergy's financial condition or results of operations.The Physical Risks Associated with Climate Change May Impact Our Results of Operations and Cash FlowsPhysical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. Finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants.Future Changes in Accounting Standards May Affect Our Reported Financial ResultsThe SEC, FASB or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position.Changes in Local, State or Federal Tax Laws Applicable To Us or Adverse Audit Results or Tax Rulings, and Any Resulting Increases in Taxes and Fees, May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operation, Financial Audit and Cash FlowFirstEnergy is subject to various local, state and federal taxes, including income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes. We exercise significant judgment in calculating such tax obligations, booking reserves as necessary to reflect potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions we have taken and utilizing tax benefits, such as carryforwards and credits. Additionally, various tax rate and fee increases may be proposed or considered in connection with such changes in local, state or federal tax law. We cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, or whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. Any such changes, or any adverse tax audit results or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries could have a negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Associated With Financing and Capital StructureVolatility or Unfavorable Conditions in the Capital and Credit Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business, Including the Immediate Availability and Cost of Short-Term Funds for Liquidity Requirements, Our Ability to Meet Long-Term Commitments, Our Ability to Hedge Effectively Our Generation Portfolio, and the Competitiveness and Liquidity of Energy Markets; Each Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial ConditionWe rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. We also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. We also deposit cash in short-term investments. Volatility in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our credit facilities and cash. Our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions 40that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Fluctuations in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Unfavorable conditions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash.The strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.Interest Rates and/or a Credit Rating Downgrade Could Negatively Affect Our or Our Subsidiaries' Financing Costs, Ability to Access Capital and Requirement to Post Collateral and the Ability to Continue Successfully Implementing Our Retail Sales StrategyWe have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. Past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. Similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. Although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations.We rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. A downgrade in our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. A downgrade in our credit rating, or that of our subsidiaries, could also preclude certain retail customers from executing supply contracts with us and therefore impact our ability to successfully implement our retail sales strategy. Furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. A rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. A rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. See Note 16, Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies - Guarantees and Other Assurances of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information associated with a credit ratings downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral.The Stability of Counterparties Could Adversely Affect UsWe are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, power, fuel or other commodities could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. Some of our agreements contain provisions that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure all or part of their obligations to FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries. If the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may have a right to receive the proceeds from the credit support provided, however the credit support may not always be adequate to cover the related obligations. In such event, we may incur losses in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties, including by being forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. Although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by customers or other counterparties may be greater than the estimates predict, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We Must Rely on Cash from Our Subsidiaries and Any Restrictions on Our Utility Subsidiaries' Ability to Pay Dividends or Make Cash Payments to Us May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition41We are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow, including our ability to pay dividends and service debt, is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. Those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us.We Cannot Assure Common Shareholders that Future Dividend Payments Will be Made, or if Made, in What Amounts they May be Paid and that the Recent Reduction in Our Dividend, or any Future Reductions Declared by our Board, Will Have a Positive Impact on Our Results of OperationsOn January 21, 2014, in connection with actions taken to refocus our business strategy as a result of continuing weak economic conditions and depressed energy prices, our Board of Directors declared a revised quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share of outstanding common stock, which equates to an indicated annual dividend of $1.44 per share and is lower than the $0.55 per share per quarter ($2.20 per share annually) that FirstEnergy previously paid since 2008. Our Board of Directors will continue to regularly evaluate our common stock dividend and determine an appropriate dividend each quarter taking into account such factors as, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. We cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. Additionally, we cannot assure common shareholders that the recent reduction, or any future reduction, in our dividend will be successful in strengthening our results of operations and liquidity.  ITEM 1B