ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS







We operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our
control. Management of each Registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the
Registrant’s businesses and reviews those risks with the FirstEnergy Board of Directors or
appropriate Committees of the Board. The following risk factors and all other information contained
in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating FirstEnergy and our subsidiaries.
These risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially
from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. Below, we have
identified risks we currently consider material. Additional information on risk factors is included
in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” and in other sections of this Form 10-K that include forward-looking and
other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial
results.



Risks Related to Business Operations



Risks Arising from the Reliability of Our Power Plants and Transmission and Distribution Equipment



Operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including, the
risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, due to aging infrastructure, fuel
supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees,
acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in
obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental
limitations and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. In addition,
weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and
distribution delivery systems. Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of
third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or
uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties.


 

23




Table of Contents






Operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased
expenses, including higher operating and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital
requirements. Unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to
mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our
business. Unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may
reduce our revenues as a result of selling fewer MWH or may require us to incur significant costs
as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in
the open market to satisfy our forward power sales obligations. Moreover, if we were unable to
perform under contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. FES, FGCO
and the Ohio Companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback arrangements for
generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those
facilities worthless. Although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, FES, FGCO
and the Ohio Companies have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately
$1.36 billion for FES, $666 million for OE and an aggregate of $622 million for TE and CEI as
co-lessees.



We remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service
territories. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources.
Failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards
due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could
adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating
costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes.



Changes in Commodity Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Profit Margins



We purchase and sell electricity in the competitive wholesale and retail markets. Increases in the
costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect
our profit margins. Changes in the market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in
other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial
position by increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to supply POLR and default service
obligations in the states we do business. In addition, the global economy could lead to lower
international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put
downward pressure on electricity prices.



Electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time for a
variety of reasons, including:







     
    •
     
    changing weather conditions or seasonality;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in electricity usage by our customers;



     

     
    •
     
    illiquidity and credit worthiness of participants in wholesale power and other markets;



     

     
    •
     
    transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies;



     

     
    •
     
    availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in supply and demand for energy commodities;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in power production capacity;



     

     
    •
     
    outages at our power production facilities or those of our competitors;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in legislation and regulation; and



     

     
    •
     
    natural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events.





We Are Exposed to Operational, Price and Credit Risks Associated With Selling and Marketing
Products in the Power Markets That We Do Not Always Completely Hedge Against


We purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based tariffs authorized by the
FERC, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation
assets. If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be
required to pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between the
market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered
capacity or energy. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages
could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission
disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases
in the market price of replacement capacity and energy.


 

24




Table of Contents






We attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by
reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and,
when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. We also routinely enter into contracts,
such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements
and other energy-related commodities. We may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our
operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price
volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected.



The Use of Derivative Contracts by Us to Mitigate Risks Could Result in Financial Losses That May
Negatively Impact Our Financial Results


We use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and
forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In the absence of actively quoted
market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these
derivative instruments involves management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in
the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair
value of some of these contracts. Also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of
volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform.



Financial Derivatives Reforms Could Increase Our Liquidity Needs and Collateral Costs


In July 2010, federal legislation was enacted to reform financial markets that significantly alter
how over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are regulated. The law increased regulatory oversight of
OTC energy derivatives, including (1) requiring standardized OTC derivatives to be traded on
registered exchanges regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), (2) imposing new
and potentially higher capital and margin requirements and (3) authorizing the establishment of
overall volume and position limits. The law gives the CFTC authority to exempt end users of energy
commodities which could reduce, but not eliminate, the applicability of these measures to us and
other end users. These requirements could cause our OTC transactions to be more costly and have an
adverse effect on our liquidity due to additional capital requirements. In addition, as these
reforms aim to standardize OTC products it could limit the effectiveness of our hedging programs
because we would have less ability to tailor OTC derivatives to match the precise risk we are
seeking to protect.



Our Risk Management Policies Relating to Energy and Fuel Prices, and Counterparty Credit, Are by
Their Very Nature Risk Related, and We Could Suffer Economic Losses Despite Such Policies


We attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. Procedures
have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies,
including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits,
sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics.
Nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposures in these areas and our risk
management program may not operate as planned. For example, actual electricity and fuel prices may
be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in
our analyses. Also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given
day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events,
which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy
supply contracts. In addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day
or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices
less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. As a result, we cannot always predict the
impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or
costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge.



Our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on
projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as
future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. These factors
become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the
future these estimates are made. Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions
are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and
assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate.



We also face credit risks from parties with whom we contract who could default in their
performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a lower-priced market or make
purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at the time of executing the contract. Although we
have established risk management policies and programs, including credit policies to evaluate
counterparty credit risk, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our
obligations, that we will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform or that we will not
experience counterparty non-performance or that we will collect for voided contracts. If
counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative
hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices. In that event,
our financial results could be adversely affected.


 

25




Table of Contents






Nuclear Generation Involves Risks that Include Uncertainties Relating to Health and Safety,
Additional Capital Costs, the Adequacy of Insurance Coverage and Nuclear Plant Decommissioning


We are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following:







     
    •
     
    the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health
resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the
operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and
disposal of radioactive materials;



     

     
    •
     
    limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially
available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our
nuclear operations or those of others in the United States;



     

     
    •
     
    uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and



     

     
    •
     
    uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects
of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed
operation including increases in minimum funding requirements or costs
of completion.





The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety-related
requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance,
the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of
the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements
promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants,
including ours. Also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could
cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit.



Our nuclear facilities are insured under NEIL policies issued for each plant. Under these policies,
up to $2.8 billion of insurance coverage is provided for property damage and decontamination and
decommissioning costs. We have also obtained approximately $2.0 billion of insurance coverage for
replacement power costs. Under these policies, we can be assessed a maximum of approximately $79
million for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy year that are in
excess of accumulated funds available to the insurer for paying losses.



The Price-Anderson Act limits the public liability that can be assessed with respect to a nuclear
power plant to $12.6 billion (assuming 104 units licensed to operate in the United States) for a
single nuclear incident, which amount is covered by: (i) private insurance amounting to $375
million; and (ii) $12.2 billion provided by an industry retrospective rating plan. Under such
retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear incident at any unit in the United States
resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to $118 million (but not more than $18
million per year) must be contributed for each nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by
the licensees thereof to cover liabilities arising out of the incident. Our maximum potential
exposure under these provisions would be $470 million per incident but not more than $70 million in
any one year.



Capital Market Performance and Other Changes May Decrease the Value of Decommissioning Trust Fund,
Pension Fund Assets and Other Trust Funds Which Then Could Require Significant Additional Funding


Our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations
to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other post-retirement
benefit plans. The value of certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily
determinable market values. Changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these
assets could affect the value of the trusts. If the value of the assets held by the trusts
declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase.
 These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield
uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. Forecasting investment earnings
and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other obligations
requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates.
Capital market conditions that generate investment losses or greater liability levels can
negatively impact our results of operations and financial position.


 

26




Table of Contents






We Could be Subject to Higher Costs and/or Penalties Related to Mandatory Reliability Standards Set
by NERC/FERC or Changes in the Rules of Organized Markets and the States in Which We Do Business


As a result of the EPACT, owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to
mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and approved by FERC as well as mandatory
reliability standards and energy efficiency requirements imposed by each of the states in which we
operate. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk
electric system operates reliably. Compliance with modified or new reliability standards may
subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. If we were found not to
be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions,
including substantial monetary penalties.



Reliability standards that were historically subject to voluntary compliance are now mandatory and
could subject us to potential civil penalties for violations which could negatively impact our
business. The FERC can now impose penalties of $1.0 million per day for failure to comply with
these mandatory electric reliability standards.



In addition to direct regulation by the FERC and the states, we are also subject to rules and terms
of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs and ISOs. Although these entities are
themselves ultimately regulated by the FERC, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of
service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business.
For example, the independent market monitors of ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling
rules to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure the market functions. Such
actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and
capacity. In addition, the RTOs may direct our transmission owning affiliates to build new
transmission facilities to meet the reliability requirements of the RTO or to provide new or
expanded transmission service under the RTO tariffs.



We Rely on Transmission and Distribution Assets That We Do Not Own or Control to Deliver Our
Wholesale Electricity. If Transmission is Disrupted Including Our Own Transmission, or Not Operated
Efficiently, or if Capacity is Inadequate, Our Ability to Sell and Deliver Power May Be Hindered


We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other
energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. If transmission is disrupted (as a result of
weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by independent system
operators, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver
products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell
products on the most favorable terms. In addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate,
we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion
zones during periods of high demand. If we are unable to hedge or recover for such congestion
costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected.



Demand for electricity within our Utilities’ service areas could stress available transmission
capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating
costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to results of operations. In addition, as with all
utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in MISO, PJM or the FERC
requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital
expenditures.



The FERC requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access,
non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in
wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to
transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be
available to transmit electricity as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as
a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or
whether independent system operators in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks,
and provide related services, efficiently.



Disruptions in Our Fuel Supplies Could Occur, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Operate
Our Generation Facilities and Impact Financial Results


We purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. The lack of availability of fuel at expected prices,
or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories,
including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties,
labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an
adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or
higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. Operation of our coal-fired
generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. Although we have
long-term contracts in place for our coal and coal transportation needs, power generators in the
Midwest and the Northeast have experienced significant pressures on available coal supplies that
are either transportation or supply related. If prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.


 

27




Table of Contents






Temperature Variations as well as Weather Conditions or other Natural Disasters Could Have a
Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Demand Significantly Below or Above Our Forecasts
Could Adversely Affect Our Energy Margins


Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. Demand for power generally
peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time.
Overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. In addition, we have
historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are
milder. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snow storms, or droughts or other
natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional
costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of
the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly
burdensome during a peak demand period.



Customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over
which we have no control. We satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio
approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market
purchases. A significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are
required under the terms of the default service tariffs to provide the energy supply to fulfill
this increased demand at capped rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at
which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity,
the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. Accordingly, any significant
change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
position.



We Are Subject to Financial Performance Risks Related to Regional and General Economic Cycles and
also Related to Heavy Manufacturing Industries such as Automotive and Steel


Our business follows the economic cycles of our customers. As our retail strategy is centered
around the sale of output from our generating plants generally where that power will reach,
therefore, we are more directly impacted by the economic conditions in our primary markets (i.e.,
Pennsylvania, Ohio, Maryland, New Jersey, Michigan and Illinois).
Declines in demand for electricity as a result of a regional economic downturn would be expected to
reduce overall electricity sales and reduce our revenues. Electric generation sales volume has
been, and is expected to continue to be, influenced by circumstances in automotive, steel and other
heavy industries.



Increases in Customer Electric Rates and Economic Uncertainty May Lead to a Greater Amount of
Uncollectible Customer Accounts


Our operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories and those
conditions could negatively impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts and our collections of
accounts receivable which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows.



The Goodwill of One or More of Our Operating Subsidiaries May Become Impaired, Which Would Result
in Write-Offs of the Impaired Amounts


Goodwill could become impaired at one or more of our operating subsidiaries. The actual timing and
amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years would depend on many uncertainties, including
changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, our capital structure, market prices
for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the
value of comparable utility acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors.



We Face Certain Human Resource Risks Associated with the Availability of Trained and Qualified
Labor to Meet Our Future Staffing Requirements


We must find ways to retain our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate
losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. Mitigating these risks could require
additional financial commitments.


 

28




Table of Contents






Significant Increases in Our Operation and Maintenance Expenses, Including Our Health Care and
Pension Costs, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Earnings and Liquidity


We continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance
expenses. However, we expect cost pressures could increase as we continue to implement our retail
sales strategy. We expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in the areas of health care
and pension costs. We have experienced significant health care cost inflation in the last few
years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage,
to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take requiring employees
and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. The measurement
of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a
variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions
include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit design
changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. If
actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased.



Our Business is Subject to the Risk that Sensitive Customer Data May be Compromised, Which Could
Result in an Adverse Impact to Our Reputation and/or Results of Operations


Our business requires access to sensitive customer data, including personal and credit information,
in the ordinary course of business. A security breach may occur, despite security measures taken by
us and required of vendors. If a significant or widely publicized breach occurred, our business
reputation may be adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or we may become
subject to legal claims, fines or penalties, any of which could have a negative impact on our
business and/or results of operations.



Acts of War or Terrorism Could Negatively Impact Our Business


The possibility that our infrastructure, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution
facilities, or that of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect
casualties of, an act of war or terrorism, could result in disruption of our ability to generate,
purchase, transmit or distribute electricity. Any such disruption could result in a decrease in
revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets, which
could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.



Capital Improvements and Construction Projects May Not be Completed Within Forecasted Budget,
Schedule or Scope Parameters


Our business plan calls for extensive capital investments. We may be exposed to the risk of
substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction. We have
engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary
materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. As a result, we are also
exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations
to us. Such risk could include our contractors’ inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as
well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. Should the counterparties to these
arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at
then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those
and other projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a
potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation
provisions. This could have negative financial impacts such as incurring losses or delays in
completing construction projects.



Changes in Technology May Significantly Affect Our Generation Business by Making Our Generating
Facilities Less Competitive


We primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. This method results in economies of
scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and
photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in technologies will reduce their costs to
levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



We May Acquire Assets That Could Present Unanticipated Issues for Our Business in the Future, Which
Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Realize Anticipated Benefits of Those Acquisitions


Asset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management attention;
integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the
assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and
other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements.
Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash
flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition.


 

29




Table of Contents






Ability of Certain FirstEnergy Companies to Meet Their Obligations to Other FirstEnergy Companies


Certain of the FirstEnergy companies have obligations to other FirstEnergy companies because of
transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services, and because of hedging
transactions. If one FirstEnergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other
FirstEnergy entities could incur losses. Their results of operations, financial position, or
liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting FirstEnergy entity being
unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. Our hedging activities are generally
undertaken with a view to overall FirstEnergy exposures. Some FirstEnergy companies may therefore
be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone.


Risks Associated With Our Proposed Merger With Allegheny



We May be Unable to Obtain the Approvals Required to Complete Our Merger with Allegheny or, in
Order to do so, the Combined Company May be Required to Comply With Material Restrictions or
Conditions



On
February 11, 2010, we announced the execution of a merger
agreement with Allegheny. The only regulatory approval pending is
from the PPUC. The PPUC could impose
conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the merger, including
restrictions or conditions on the business, operations, or financial performance of the combined
company following completion of the merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of
delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the
combined company following the merger, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial
results of the combined company and/or cause either us or Allegheny to abandon the merger.



If Completed, Our Merger with Allegheny May Not Achieve Its Intended Results



We and Allegheny entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would
result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies
relating to both the regulated utility operations and the generation business. Achieving the
anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the
business of Allegheny is integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these
anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues
generated by the combined company and diversion of management’s time and energy and could have an
adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial results and prospects.



We Will be Subject to Business Uncertainties and Contractual Restrictions While the Merger with
Allegheny is Pending That Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results



Uncertainty about the effect of the merger with Allegheny on employees and customers may have an
adverse effect on us. Although we intend to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects,
these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the
merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and
others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships.



Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the
merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles
with the combined company. If, despite our retention and recruiting efforts, key employees depart
or fail to accept employment with us because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty
of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, our financial results could be
affected.



The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration of Allegheny into our company may
place a significant burden on management and internal resources. The diversion of management
attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition
and integration process could affect our financial results.



In addition, the merger agreement restricts us, without Allegheny‘s consent, from making
certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs or the merger
agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business
opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the merger or
termination of the merger agreement.



Failure to Complete Our Merger with Allegheny Could Negatively Impact Our Stock Price and Our
Future Business and Financial Results



If our merger with Allegheny is not completed, our ongoing business and financial results may be
adversely affected and we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following:







     
    •
     
    We may be required, under specified circumstances set forth in the Merger
Agreement, to pay Allegheny a termination fee of $350 million and/or
Allegheny’s reasonable out-of-pocket transaction expenses up to $45 million;



     

     
    •
     
    we would be required to pay costs relating to the merger, including
legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing and printing costs,
whether or not the merger is completed; and



     

     
    •
     
    matters relating to our merger with Allegheny (including integration
planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by
our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other
opportunities that may have been beneficial to us.





We could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete our merger with
Allegheny. If our merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect
our business, financial results and stock price.

 

30




Table of Contents






Risks Associated With Regulation



Complex and Changing Government Regulations Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of
Operations


We are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies
that significantly influence our operating environment. Changes in, or reinterpretations of,
existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to
incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an
adverse impact on our results of operations.



Our utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory
commissions. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not be set to recover its
expenses at any given time. Additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when
costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. For example, we may be unable to timely recover
the costs for our energy efficiency investments, expenses and additional capital or lost revenues
resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. While rate regulation
is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and
recovery of operating expenses, there
can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs
have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will
always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. For
example, our utility subsidiaries’ ability to timely recover rates and charges associated with
integration of the ATSI footprint into PJM is uncertain.



Regulatory Changes in the Electric Industry, Including a Reversal, Discontinuance or Delay of the
Present Trend Toward Competitive Markets, Could Affect Our Competitive Position and Result in
Unrecoverable Costs Adversely Affecting Our Business and Results of Operations


As a result of restructuring initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred,
and are continuing to take place throughout the United States, including the states in which we do
business. These changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental
alterations in the way utilities conduct their business.



Some states that have deregulated generation service have experienced difficulty in transitioning
to market-based pricing. In some instances, state and federal government agencies and other
interested parties have made proposals to impose rate cap extensions or otherwise delay market
restructuring or even re-regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated.
Although we expect wholesale electricity markets to continue to be competitive, proposals to
re-regulate our industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power
restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in the states
in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. Such delays, discontinuations or reversals of
electricity market restructuring in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse impact on
our results of operations and financial condition.



The FERC and the U.S. Congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of
the electric utility industry. If the restructuring, deregulation or re-regulation efforts result
in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be
adversely affected. We cannot predict the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure,
deregulate or re-regulate our business or the industry.



The Prospect of Rising Rates Could Prompt Legislative or Regulatory Action to Restrict or Control
Such Rate Increases. This In Turn Could Create Uncertainty Affecting Planning, Costs and Results
of Operations and May Adversely Affect the Utilities’ Ability to Recover Their Costs, Maintain
Adequate Liquidity and Address Capital Requirements


Increases in utility rates, such as may follow a period of frozen or capped rates, can generate
pressure on legislators and regulators to take steps to control those increases. Such efforts can
include some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. The public discourse and debate
can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues,
and the ability to recover costs. Such uncertainty restricts flexibility and resources, given the
need to plan and ensure available financial resources. Such uncertainty also affects the costs of
doing business. Such costs could ultimately reduce liquidity, as suppliers tighten payment terms,
and increase costs of financing, as lenders demand increased compensation or collateral security to
accept such risks.


 

31




Table of Contents






Our Profitability is Impacted by Our Affiliated Companies’ Continued Authorization to Sell Power at
Market-Based Rates


The FERC granted FES, FGCO and NGC  authority to sell electricity at market-based rates. These
orders also granted them waivers of certain FERC accounting, record-keeping and reporting
requirements. The Utilities also have market-based rate authority. The FERC’s orders that grant
this market-based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the FERC
subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or
generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. As a condition to
the orders granting the generating companies market-based rate authority, every three years they
are required to file a market power update to show that they continue to meet the FERC’s standards
with respect to generation market power and other criteria used to evaluate whether entities
qualify for market-based rates. FES, FGCO, NGC and the Utilities renewed this authority for PJM in
2008 and MISO in 2009. On December 30, 2010, FES, FGCO, NGC and the Utilities filed to renew this
authority for operations within PJM. If any of these companies were to lose their market-based
rate authority, they would be required to obtain the FERC’s acceptance to sell power at cost-based
rates. FES, FGCO and NGC could also lose their waivers, and become subject to the accounting,
record-keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate
schedules.



There Are Uncertainties Relating to Our Participation in RTOs


RTO rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in
certain markets due to transmission constraints and attendant congestion costs. The prices in
day-ahead and real-time energy markets and RTO capacity markets have been subject to price
volatility. Administrative costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy
markets, have also increased. The rules governing the various regional power markets may also
change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. To the degree we incur
significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an RTO, and we are limited with
respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, we may suffer financial harm. While RTO
rates for transmission service are cost based, our revenues from customers to whom we currently
provide transmission services may not reflect all of the administrative and market-related costs
imposed under the RTO tariff. In addition, we may be allocated a portion of the cost of
transmission facilities built by
others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. Finally, we may be required to expand our
transmission system according to decisions made by an RTO rather than our internal planning
process. As a member of an RTO, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those
associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other
participants in that RTO’s market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the RTO
that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members.



The MISO has proposed changes to its rates and tariffs that may result or cause significant charges
to ATSI or the Ohio Companies or Penn upon their respective withdrawal from the MISO on May 31,
2011. The implementation of these and other new market designs has the potential to increase our
costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of
participation in the market and costs associated with estimated payment settlements.



Because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power
markets, or how RTOs will ultimately develop and operate, or what region they will cover, we cannot
fully assess the impact that these power markets or other ongoing RTO developments may have.




 

32




Table of Contents






A Significant Delay in or Challenges to Various Elements of ATSI’s Consolidation into PJM,
including but not Limited to, the Intervention of Parties to the Regulatory Proceedings Could
have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition


On December 17, 2009, FERC authorized, subject to certain conditions, FirstEnergy to consolidate
its transmission assets and operations that currently are located in MISO into PJM; such
consolidation to be effective on June 1, 2011. The consolidation will make the transmission assets
that are part of ATSI, whose footprint includes the Ohio Companies and Penn, part of PJM.
Consolidation on June 1, 2011 will coincide with delivery of power under the next competitive
generation procurement process for the Ohio Companies. On December 17, 2009, and after FERC issued
the order, ATSI executed and delivered to PJM those legal documents necessary to implement
its consolidation into PJM. On December 18, 2009, the Ohio Companies and Penn executed and
delivered to PJM those legal documents necessary to follow ATSI into PJM. Currently, ATSI, the Ohio
Companies and Penn are expected to consolidate into PJM as planned on June 1, 2011.



On February 1, 2011, ATSI filed its proposal with FERC for moving its transmission rate into PJM’s
tariffs. Numerous parties are expected to intervene and file responsive comments. Our expectation
is that ATSI will enter PJM as scheduled on June 1, 2011, and that if legal proceedings regarding
its rate are outstanding at that time, ATSI will be permitted to start charging its proposed rates,
subject to refund.  Additional FERC proceedings are either
pending or expected in which the amount of exit fees, transmission cost allocations, and costs
associated with long term firm transmission rights payable by the ATSI zone upon its departure from
the Midwest ISO will be determined. In addition, certain other parties continue to protest aspects
of the move into PJM, and certain of these matters remain outstanding and will be resolved in
future FERC proceedings. A ruling by FERC or any other regulator with jurisdiction in favor of one
or more of the intervening or protesting parties (and against FirstEnergy) on one or more of
the disputed issues could result in a negative impact on our results of operations and financial
condition.



Energy Conservation and Energy Price Increases Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Results


A number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to
reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Conservation programs could impact our financial
results in different ways. To the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or
significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our merchant generation and other
unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. We currently have energy efficiency
riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery
timeframe in Ohio and Pennsylvania. In New Jersey, we recover the costs for energy efficiency
programs through the SBC. Currently only Ohio has provisions for recovery of lost revenues. In our
regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment
of the associated impacts. Should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in
reduced
sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these
measures could have a negative financial impact. We could also be impacted if any future energy
price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. Our results could be affected if we are
unable to increase our customer’s participation in our energy efficiency programs. We are unable
to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our
financial condition or results of operations.



Our Business and Activities are Subject to Extensive Environmental Requirements and Could be
Adversely Affected by such Requirements


We may be forced to shut down facilities, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to
comply with certain environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures
required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. In fact, we are exposed to the risk
that such electric generating plants would not be permitted to continue to operate if pollution
control equipment is not installed by prescribed deadlines.



The EPA is Conducting NSR Investigations at a Number of Our Generating Plants, the Results of Which
Could Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition


We may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing
laws and regulations. For example, applicable standards under the EPA’s NSR initiatives remain in
flux. Under the CAA, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that causes increased
emissions could subject our existing facilities to the far more stringent NSR standards applicable
to new facilities.


 

33




Table of Contents






The EPA has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been
modifying emissions sources in violation of NSR standards in connection with work believed by the
companies to be routine maintenance. We are currently involved in litigation and EPA investigations
concerning alleged violations of the NSR standards at certain of our existing and former generating
facilities. We intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position in these environmental matters
but FGCO is unable to predict their outcomes. If NSR and similar requirements are imposed on our
generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail
significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact
on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For a more complete
discussion see “Environmental Matters.”



Costs of Compliance with Environmental Laws are Significant, and the Cost of Compliance with Future
Environmental Laws, Including Limitations on GHG Emissions, Could Adversely Affect Cash
Flow and Profitability


Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and
regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for environmental
monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance, upgrading,
remediation and permitting at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past
and may increase in the future. If the cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and
regulations does increase, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations,
financial position and cash flows. Moreover, changes in environmental laws or regulations may
materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures.
Because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional
costs incurred for such compliance. Our compliance strategy, although reasonably based on available
information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. If we fail
to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control or
new interpretations of longstanding requirements, that failure could result in the assessment of
civil or criminal liability and fines. In addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and
regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged
violations.



There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state
and international level. Environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in
the United States are focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power
generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. Many states and environmental
groups have also challenged certain of the federal laws and regulations relating to air emissions
as not being sufficiently strict. Also, claims have been made alleging that CO2
emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state
common law. Private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us
and could allege personal injury or property damage from exposure to hazardous materials. Recently
the courts have begun to acknowledge these claims and may order us to reduce GHG emissions in the
future. There is a growing consensus in the United States and globally that GHG emissions are a
major cause of global warming and that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal
level with respect to GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide) and such regulation could result in
the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. As a
result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more
stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. In December 2009, the EPA issued
an “endangerment and cause or contributing finding” for GHG under the CAA, which will allow the EPA
to craft rules that directly regulate GHG. This “finding” triggered several regulatory actions
under the CAA, resulting, among other things in the regulation of GHG emissions from large
stationary sources. Although several bills have been introduced at the state and federal level that
would compel carbon dioxide emission reductions, none have advanced
through the legislature. Due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions including CO2, as well as the unknown nature of potential
compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any
assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. In
addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions could
require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide legislation, would raise
uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for
new and existing electric generation facilities. Until specific regulations are promulgated, the
impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement
initiatives, or legislation may have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity
is not determinable.



At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions
of GHG in the United States, and the House of Representatives passed one such bill, the American
Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, on June 26, 2009. The Senate continues to consider a number
of measures to regulate GHG emissions. President Obama has announced his Administration’s “New
Energy for America Plan” that includes, among other provisions, ensuring that 10% of electricity
used in the United States comes from renewable sources by 2012, increasing to 25% by 2025, and
implementing an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce GHG emissions by 80% by 2050. State
activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas
Initiative and western states, led by California, have coordinated efforts to develop regional
strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs.


 

34




Table of Contents






In September 2009, the EPA finalized a national GHG emissions collection and reporting rule that
required FirstEnergy to measure GHG emissions commencing in 2010 and begin to submit reports
commencing in 2011. In December 2009, the EPA released its final “Endangerment and Cause or
Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under the Clean Air Act.” The EPA’s finding concludes that
concentrations of several key GHGs increase the threat of climate change and may be regulated as
“air pollutants” under the CAA. In May 2010, the EPA finalized new thresholds for GHG emissions
that define when permits under the CAA’s NSR program would be required. The EPA established an
emissions applicability threshold of 75,000 tons per year (tpy) of carbon dioxide equivalents
(CO2e) effective January 2, 2011 for existing facilities under the CAA’s PSD program, but until
July 1, 2011 that emissions applicability threshold will only apply if PSD is triggered by
non-carbon dioxide pollutants.



At the international level, the Kyoto Protocol, signed by the U.S. in 1998 but never submitted for
ratification by the U.S. Senate, was intended to address global warming by reducing the amount of
man-made GHG, including CO2, emitted by developed countries by 2012. A December 2009
U.N. Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen did not reach a consensus on a successor treaty to the
Kyoto Protocol, but did take note of the Copenhagen Accord, a non-binding political agreement which
recognized the scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below two degrees
Celsius; include a commitment by developed countries to provide funds, approaching $30 billion over
the next three years with a goal of increasing to $100 billion by 2020; and establish the
“Copenhagen Green Climate Fund” to support mitigation, adaptation, and other climate-related
activities in developing countries. Once they have become a party to the Copenhagen Accord,
developed economies, such as the European Union, Japan, Russia and the United States, would commit
to quantified economy-wide emissions targets from 2020, while developing countries, including
Brazil, China and India, would agree to take mitigation actions, subject to their domestic
measurement, reporting and verification.



FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although
potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation
alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or
result in changes to its operations. The CO2 emissions per KWH of electricity generated
by FirstEnergy is lower than many regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources,
which include low or non-CO2 emitting gas-fired and nuclear generators.



The EPA’s CAIR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2009/2010 and
2015), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.5 million tons annually
and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia vacated CAIR “in its entirety” and directed the EPA to “redo its analysis from the
ground up.” In December 2008, the Court reconsidered its prior ruling and allowed CAIR to remain in
effect to “temporarily preserve its environmental values” until the EPA replaces CAIR with a new
rule consistent with the Court’s opinion. In July 2010, the EPA proposed the CATR to replace CAIR,
which remains in effect until the EPA finalizes CATR. CATR requires reductions of NOx and
SO2 emissions in two phases (2012 and 2014), ultimately capping SO2 emissions
in affected states to 2.6 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. The
EPA proposed a preferred regulatory approach that allows trading of NOx and SO2 emission
allowances between power plants located in the same state and severely limits interstate trading of
NOx and SO2 emission allowances. The EPA also requested comment on two alternative
approaches—the first eliminates interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances
and the second eliminates trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances in its entirety.
Depending on the actions taken by the EPA with respect to CATR, the proposed MACT regulations
discussed below and any future regulations that are ultimately implemented, FGCO’s future cost of
compliance may be substantial.



The EPA’s CAMR provides for a cap-and-trade program to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired
power plants in two phases; initially, capping nationwide emissions of mercury at 38 tons by 2010
(as a “co-benefit” from implementation of SO2 and NOX emission caps under the
EPA’s CAIR program) and 15 tons per year by 2018. The U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia, at the urging of several states and environmental groups, vacated the
CAMR, ruling that the EPA failed to take the necessary steps to “de-list” coal-fired power plants
from its hazardous air pollutant program and, therefore, could not promulgate a cap-and-trade
program. On April 29, 2010, the EPA issued proposed MACT regulations requiring emissions reductions
of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from non-electric generating unit boilers, including
boilers which do not use fossil fuels. If finalized, the non-electric generating unit MACT
regulations could also provide precedent for MACT standards applicable to electric generating
units. On January 20, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia denied a motion by
the EPA for an extension of the deadline to issue final rules, ordering the EPA to issue such rules
by February 21, 2011. The EPA also entered into a consent decree requiring it to propose MACT
regulations for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from electric generating units by March
16, 2011, and to finalize the regulations by November 16, 2011. Depending on the action taken by
the EPA and on how any future regulations are ultimately implemented, FGCO’s future cost of
compliance with MACT regulations may be substantial and changes to FGCO’s operations may result.



Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal Clean Water
Act and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergy’s plants. In addition, various states have water
quality standards applicable to FirstEnergy’s operations.


 

35




Table of Contents






The EPA established new performance standards under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act for
reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing
electric generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality (when
aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and
entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility’s cooling water system). The
EPA has taken the position that until further rulemaking occurs; permitting authorities should
continue the existing practice of applying their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on
fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures. On April 1, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court
reversed one significant aspect of the Second Circuit’s opinion and decided that Section 316(b) of
the Clean Water Act authorizes the EPA to compare costs with benefits in determining the best
technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at cooling water intake
structures. The EPA is developing a new regulation under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act
consistent with the opinions of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals which have created
significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final performance
standard. FirstEnergy is studying various control options and their costs and effectiveness,
including pilot testing of reverse louvers in a portion of the Bay Shore power plant’s water intake
channel to divert fish away from the plant’s water intake system. On November 19, 2010, the Ohio
EPA issued a permit for the Bay Shore power plant requiring installation of reverse louvers in its
entire water intake channel by April 1, 2013. Depending on the results of such studies and the
EPA’s further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states exercising best professional
judgment, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital
expenditures. Also, If either the federal or state final regulations require retrofitting of
cooling water intake structures (cooling towers) at any of our power plants, and if installation of
such cooling towers is not technically or economically feasible, we may be forced to take actions
which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.



Federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976.
Certain fossil-fuel combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste
disposal requirements pending the EPA’s evaluation of the need for future regulation. In February
2009, the EPA requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion
residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non-hazardous waste.



On December 30, 2009, in an advanced notice of public rulemaking, the EPA said that the large
volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk
to the industry. On May 4, 2010, the EPA proposed two options for additional regulation of coal
combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPA’s
hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management,
beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FGCO’s future cost of compliance with any
coal combustion residuals regulations which may be promulgated could be substantial and would
depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the
states.



The Physical Risks Associated with Climate Change May Impact Our Results of Operations and Cash
Flows.


Physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in
temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other
related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. Severe weather or other natural
disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain
costs. An extreme weather event within the Utilities’ service areas can also directly affect their
capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage
to other operating equipment. Finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and
economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of
generating plants.



Remediation of Environmental Contamination at Current or Formerly Owned Facilities


We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental
contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous
substances that we may have generated
regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated
the facilities. Remediation activities associated with our former MGP operations are one source of
such costs. We are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other
hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the
future. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the
production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for
additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Citizen
groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types,
such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the
enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which
could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict the
amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or
penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material.



In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may
otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee
fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or
injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be
limited by the financial resources of the transferee.


 

36




Table of Contents






Availability and Cost of Emission Credits Could Materially Impact Our Costs of Operations


We are required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission credits to
support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. These
credits are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws. If our
operational needs require more than our allocated allowances of emission credits, we may be forced
to purchase such credits on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to maintain
sufficient emission credits to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations
so as not to exceed our available emission credits, or install costly new emissions controls. As we
use the emissions credits that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such
purchases will be recognized as operating expense. If such credits are available for purchase, but
only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such credits could materially increase our
costs of operations in the affected markets. Laws and regulations such as CAIR may, and are, being
revised and as CAIR is being rewritten it is creating uncertainty in many areas, including but not
limited to, the annual NOx emission allowances beyond 2010.



Mandatory Renewable Portfolio Requirements Could Negatively Affect Our Costs


If federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as
wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation would not also provide for adequate cost
recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including renewable energy credit
purchase costs, purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital
expenditures. We are unable to predict what impact, if any, these changes may have on our
financial condition or results of operations.



We Are and May Become Subject to Legal Claims Arising from the Presence of Asbestos or Other
Regulated Substances at Some of Our Facilities


We have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and
multiple defendants. In addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to
be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. We believe
that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. The continued presence of asbestos and
other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being
brought against us.



The Continuing Availability and Operation of Generating Units is Dependent on Retaining the
Necessary Licenses, Permits, and Operating Authority from Governmental Entities, Including the NRC



We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that
regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been
obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with
applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future
regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits,
approvals or certifications will be renewed.



Future Changes in Financial Accounting Standards May Affect Our Reported Financial Results


The SEC, FASB or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements
or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our
accounting policies. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could
materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be
required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our
financial position. The SEC has announced a work plan to aid in its evaluation of the impact that
the use of IFRS by U.S. public companies would have on the U.S. securities market. Given the
results of the work plan, the SEC expects to make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory
adoption of IFRS.  We are currently assessing the impact that
this potential change would have on our consolidated financial statements and we will continue to
monitor the development of the potential implementation of IFRS.



Increases in Taxes and Fees.


Due to the revenue needs of the United States and the states and jurisdictions in which we operate,
various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. We cannot predict whether legislation
or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such
legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies. If
enacted, these changes could increase tax costs and could have a negative impact on our results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 

37




Table of Contents






Risks Associated With Financing and Capital Structure



Interest Rates and/or a Credit Rating Downgrade Could Negatively Affect Our Financing Costs, Our
Ability to Access Capital and Our Requirement to Post Collateral


We have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable
interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt
in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment
opportunities. Past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest
rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest
rate debt securities and failed remarketings (all of which were eventually remarketed) of variable
interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. Continuation of these
disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations.
Also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management
processes were not established to address. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that
our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than
our risk management positions were intended to hedge. Although we employ risk management techniques
to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest
rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of
operations.



We rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not
satisfied by cash from operations. A downgrade in our credit ratings from the nationally recognized
credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our
ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of
those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity
positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. A
rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various credit facilities, thus
increasing the cost of our working capital. A rating downgrade could also impact our ability to
grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. On
February 11, 2010, S&P issued a report lowering FirstEnergy’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings
by one notch, while maintaining its stable outlook. As a result, FirstEnergy may be required to
post up to $48 million of collateral. Moody’s and Fitch affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of
FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries on February 11, 2010. On September 28, 2010, S&P then affirmed
the ratings and stable outlook of FE and its subsidiaries. On December 15, 2010, Fitch revised its
outlook on FE and FES from stable to negative and affirmed the rating for FirstEnergy and its
subsidiaries.



A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold debt, inasmuch as such rating does not
comment as to market price or suitability for a particular investor. The ratings assigned to our
debt address the likelihood of payment of principal and interest pursuant to their terms. A rating
may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating
should be evaluated independently of any other rating that may be assigned to our securities.
Also, we cannot predict how rating agencies may modify their evaluation process or the impact such
a modification may have on our ratings.



Our credit ratings also govern the collateral provisions of certain contract guarantees. Subsequent
to the occurrence of a credit rating downgrade to below investment grade or a “material adverse
event,” the immediate posting of cash collateral may be required. See Note 15(B) of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information associated with a credit ratings
downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral.



We Must Rely on Cash from Our Subsidiaries and Any Restrictions on Our Utility Subsidiaries’
Ability to Pay Dividends or Make Cash Payments to Us May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition


We are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets.
Substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow is
dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the
holding company. Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that
generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. Those
state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries
to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us.



We Cannot Assure Common Shareholders that Future Dividend Payments Will be Made, or if Made, in
What Amounts they May be Paid


Our Board of Directors regularly evaluates our common stock dividend policy and determines the
dividend rate each quarter. The level of dividends will continue to be influenced by many factors,
including, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries,
as well as general economic and competitive conditions. We cannot assure common shareholders that
dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or
with the same frequency as in the past.


 

38




Table of Contents






Disruptions in the Capital and Credit Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business, Including the
Availability and Cost of Short-Term Funds for Liquidity Requirements, Our Ability to Meet Long-Term
Commitments, Our Ability to Hedge Effectively Our Generation Portfolio, and the Competitiveness and
Liquidity of Energy Markets; Each Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flows and
Financial Condition


We rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if
internal funds are not available from our operations. We also use letters of credit provided by
various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. Disruptions in the capital and
credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our respective credit facilities. Our
access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial
institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those
institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of
capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short
period of time.



Longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or
increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could
adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us
to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit
arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include
deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting
requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of
cash.



The strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active participation by
multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit
markets. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in
the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are
important to our business. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets
could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market
structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term
contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.



Questions Regarding the Soundness of Financial Institutions or Counterparties Could Adversely
Affect Us


We have exposure to many different financial institutions and counterparties and we routinely
execute transactions with counterparties in connection with our hedging activities, including
brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions and industry
participants. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our
lenders or counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise default under a
financing agreement. We also deposit cash balances in short-term investments. Our ability to access
our cash quickly depends on the soundness of the financial institutions in which those funds
reside. Any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have
a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.









    
    
    


    ITEM 1B