Item 1A. Risk Factors”
    below and in other documents we file from time to time with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to
    revise or update any such forward-looking statements.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    F5 Networks is a leading provider of technology that optimizes
    the delivery of network-based applications and the security,
    performance and availability of servers, data storage devices
    and other network resources. As strategic points of control
    within a network, our products collectively function as a
    dynamic control plane that simplifies the management of data
    center operations and delivery of services across diverse data
    center resources.


 


    Founded in 1996, F5 Networks pioneered load-balancing technology
    that distributes internet traffic evenly across multiple
    servers, making them look like a single device. Today, our
    BIG-IP application delivery controllers sit in front of web and
    application servers, balancing traffic and performing
    compute-intensive functions such as encrypting and un-encrypting
    transmissions, screening traffic for security threats,
    maintaining open connections with servers, speeding the flow of
    traffic, managing access to applications and data and a variety
    of other functions that improve the performance, availability
    and security of applications. By offloading functions from
    servers, BIG-IP application delivery controllers make servers
    more efficient, reduce the number of servers needed to run
    specific applications and reduce operating costs by simplifying
    the management of servers and applications. In virtual
    environments, this allows customers to increase the density of
    virtual servers running on physical servers and reduces the
    added complexity of managing a dynamic environment. BIG-IP
    application delivery controllers also support software modules
    that manage the flow of traffic between





    
    2



Table of Contents





    multiple data centers and across multiple service provider
    connections, ensuring that this traffic is always routed to the
    most available resource and enabling on-demand access to
    resources within and outside customer data centers. In addition,
    we offer complementary products that provide secure remote
    access to corporate networks and optimize the delivery of
    applications and data over wide-area networks.


 


    The core of our application delivery controllers and related
    products is our full-proxy Traffic Management Operating System
    (TMOS) that enables these products to inspect and modify traffic
    flows to and from servers at network speed and supports a broad
    and growing array of functions that enhance the speed,
    performance and availability of applications. iRules, a
    scripting language based on TCL (Tool Command Language), is a
    unique feature of TMOS that enables customers and third parties
    to write customized rules to inspect and modify traffic. TMOS
    also supports a common software interface called iControl, which
    enables our products to communicate with one another and with
    third-party products, including custom and commercial enterprise
    applications. TMOS is designed to support the addition of new
    functionality as software modules and to exploit the
    performance-enhancing features of our purpose-built hardware
    platforms. Correspondingly, our hardware architecture integrates
    industry standard components with the unique features and
    characteristics of TMOS to deliver performance that is, we
    believe, demonstrably superior to competing products.


 


    Just as our application delivery controllers make many servers
    look like one, ARX storage virtualization products sit in front
    of network attached storage (NAS), making multiple storage
    devices from different vendors look like a single device to the
    individual clients, servers and applications that use them. This
    frees users and storage administrators from the time-consuming
    task of mapping individual drives to specific clients and
    applications. In addition, ARX products simplify the migration
    of data between storage devices, the addition of new storage
    devices, and the distribution of data across tiers of storage
    that reflect the relative importance or immediacy of the data.


 


    In connection with our products, we offer a broad range of
    services including consulting, training, installation,
    maintenance and other technical support services.


 


    F5 Networks was incorporated on February 26, 1996 in the
    State of Washington. Our headquarters is in Seattle, Washington
    and our mailing address is 401 Elliott Avenue West, Seattle,
    Washington 98119. The telephone number at our executive offices
    is
    (206) 272-5555.
    We have subsidiaries or branch offices in Australia, Belgium,
    China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel,
    Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Russia,
    Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand, United Arab
    Emirates and the United Kingdom. Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge
    on our website, www.f5.com, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after such material is electronically filed with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission.


 



    Industry
    Background


 



    Growth
    and Evolution of
    IP-Based
    Infrastructures


 


    Internet Protocol (IP) is a communications language used to
    transmit data over the Internet. Since the late 1990s,
    businesses have responded to the power, flexibility and
    efficiency of the Internet by replacing older data center
    architectures with
    IP-based
    infrastructures, deploying new
    IP-based
    applications and replacing or upgrading legacy applications with
    new
    IP-enabled
    versions. At the same time, organizations have become more
    geographically dispersed, and increasingly mobile workforces
    depend on access to corporate applications and data from remote
    locations and a variety of client devices such as mobile
    telephones, personal digital assistants and notebook computers.


 


    More recently, companies and other large enterprises have
    responded to the global economic downturn by using technologies
    such as virtualization and the growing availability and
    sophistication of cloud computing to overhaul their computing
    infrastructures and make them more flexible and efficient. In
    the wake of reduced headcounts, many companies are also adding
    more intelligence in their networks to enable them to compete
    more effectively in an environment of reduced consumer spending.
    These efforts are reflected in the





    
    3



Table of Contents





    widespread trend toward data center consolidation that includes
    both a reduction in the number and size of data centers.


 


    Meanwhile, the evolution and proliferation of mobile devices and
    applications, coupled with the global embrace of social media
    sites such as Facebook and Twitter, have challenged the
    abilities of content and service providers to keep up with
    growing demand.


 


    Over the near term, we believe data center consolidation will
    continue to drive demand for intelligent technologies that
    enable companies and other organizations to be more efficient
    and competitive. Longer term, we believe that the growth of
    Internet usage, driven by new applications, the proliferation of
    social media sites, the growth of mobile data traffic and the
    adoption of on-demand usage and infrastructure models such as
    cloud computing, will continue to drive demand for more
    intelligent and dynamic IP networks.


 


    In conjunction with the growth of Internet traffic, the
    proliferation of data, particularly unstructured data such as
    voice, video, images, email, spreadsheets and formatted text
    files, presents an enormous and increasing challenge to IT
    organizations. Along with the growing volume of unstructured
    data that is business-critical and must be retained and readily
    accessible to individuals and applications, new regulations
    mandate that company email, web pages and other files must be
    retained for extended periods of time. In response to this
    challenge, IT organizations spend an increasing amount of their
    budget on NAS and other types of storage systems.


 



    Trend
    Towards Virtualization


 


    From a broad perspective, the goal of IT organizations is to
    optimize the secure delivery of applications and data to users
    wherever they are and whenever they need them. To achieve this
    goal, organizations are embracing virtualization technologies
    that enable them to group or partition data center resources to
    meet user demand and reconfigure these virtual resources easily
    and quickly as demand changes. Server virtualization, which
    allows organizations to improve utilization of physical servers
    by partitioning them into multiple virtual servers, is well
    known and widely deployed. Application delivery controllers free
    up both physical and virtual server processing power by
    offloading common functions, such as encryption and compression
    from multiple physical or virtual servers, and dynamically
    manage the flow of traffic between users and both virtual and
    physical servers, making them look like a single resource to the
    user. Server virtualization puts additional pressure on storage
    resources by increasing the demand for storage capacity and the
    complexity of storing and retrieving files. Sitting in front of
    storage systems, file virtualization devices perform functions
    similar to application delivery controllers, presenting the
    appearance of a single resource to users and applications and
    dynamically managing the transfer of files between users,
    applications and multiple storage devices.


 



    Application
    Delivery Networking


 


    Internet traffic passing between client devices and servers is
    divided into discrete packets which travel by multiple routes to
    their destination where they are reassembled. The disassembly,
    routing, and reassembly of transmissions are relatively
    straightforward and require little intelligence. By contrast,
    application delivery networking — managing,
    inspecting, modifying, redirecting and securing application
    traffic going to and from servers — requires
    intelligent systems capable of performing a broad array of
    functions.


 


    Basic application delivery networking (ADN) functions include
    load-balancing (distributing traffic across multiple servers
    while making them appear to be a single server) and
    health-checking (monitoring the performance of servers and
    applications to ensure that they are working properly before
    routing traffic to them). In addition, ADN encompasses a growing
    number of functions that have typically been performed by the
    server or the application itself, or by point solutions running
    on separate devices. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    SSL Acceleration — using Secure Socket Layer (SSL)
    encryption to secure traffic between the server and the browser
    on an end user’s client device;




 



     
        • 

    
    Rate Shaping — prioritizing transmissions according to
    preset rules that give precedence to different types of traffic;







    
    4



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Compression — reducing the volume of data transmitted
    to take maximum advantage of available bandwidth;




 



     
        • 

    
    TCP Optimization — improving server efficiency by
    maintaining an open connection with a server during interactive
    sessions;




 



     
        • 

    
    IPv6 Translation — enabling communication and
    interoperability between networked devices using IPv6, the
    newest version of the Internet Protocol, and those using the
    older version IPv4;




 



     
        • 

    
    Application Security — protecting critical web
    applications from attacks such as Google hacking, cross-site
    scripting, and parameter tampering;




 



     
        • 

    
    Message Security — filtering out spam and other
    unwanted email messages;




 



     
        • 

    
    Remote Access — providing remote users with secure,
    context-aware, policy controlled access to applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    Access Policy Management — managing access to
    web-based applications through a central, policy-based point of
    control;




 



     
        • 

    
    Web Acceleration — enhancing the performance of web
    applications over wide area networks by reducing latency,
    eliminating errors, and resolving other issues that slow
    delivery;




 



     
        • 

    
    WAN Optimization — improving the performance of
    applications accessed over wide area network links by reducing
    the number of round trips required and ensuring maximum use of
    available bandwidth;




 



     
        • 

    
    Global Traffic Management — ensuring high
    availability, maximum performance and global management for
    applications running across multiple, globally-dispersed data
    centers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Link Load Balancing — monitoring availability and
    performance of multiple WAN connections and intelligently
    managing bi-directional traffic flows to ensure uninterrupted,
    optimized Internet access.





 


    Since most large enterprises have hundreds — if not
    thousands — of servers and applications, it is not
    practical to replicate these functions on each server or build
    them into the applications themselves. Even if it were,
    maintenance costs would be prohibitive and the net result would
    be a negative impact on the overall performance of servers and
    applications. Deploying point solutions in the network
    eliminates those problems but creates a new set of challenges.
    Using point solutions from multiple vendors can create
    interoperability issues, and problems that do occur can be
    difficult to troubleshoot. From a security standpoint, it is
    also much more difficult to audit traffic passing through
    multiple devices. As a result, enterprise customers are
    increasingly demanding products that integrate ADN functions on
    a single platform.


 



    File
    Virtualization


 


    Along with other types of IP traffic, the volume of file-based
    information created and accessed by Internet users and network
    applications is growing rapidly. According to some estimates,
    the volume of unstructured files is expected to triple annually
    over the next several years. The challenge of storing and
    managing unstructured files is becoming increasingly costly and
    complex, and reducing the cost and complexity is quickly moving
    up the list of data center priorities.


 


    In many large organizations whose employees are geographically
    dispersed, unstructured data is stored on local file servers,
    which are difficult to manage, costly to maintain and generally
    underutilized. Information on these devices is easy for local
    users to access but often inaccessible to others in the
    organization. To reduce the cost, complexity, and redundancy of
    dispersed file systems, many IT organizations are consolidating
    file storage on centralized NAS devices and other types of
    storage systems. Migrating and consolidating files is difficult
    and time-consuming, however, and centralized storage systems
    pose a different set of problems.


 


    Centralized storage of files can slow access for remote users
    and applications, spurring interest in technology that can speed
    the transfer of files across wide area networks (WANs). In
    addition, only users and applications that are physically mapped
    to a specific drive can store and access data on that drive. As
    the drive





    
    5



Table of Contents





    fills up, files must be moved manually to a new drive and
    affected users and applications must be remapped to that drive.
    In large organizations, this often constitutes a
    round-the-clock
    chore for many highly-skilled employees.


 


    Another major storage problem stems from the fact that all files
    are not created equal. Many businesses and other organizations
    have policies or other obligations to retain email and other
    files, increasing the volume of data to archive and, in some
    cases, keep indefinitely. Since it is unlikely that these files
    will be accessed frequently, if at all, in the course of normal
    business, it makes little sense to store them on expensive,
    high-performance systems designed to provide immediate access to
    business-critical information. As a result, IT organizations are
    beginning to deploy tiers of storage systems that match cost,
    capacity, and performance to the type of information being
    stored, how frequently it is accessed, and its relative
    importance to the business. Often, the most cost-effective
    solution is a combination of storage systems from different
    vendors, an approach that typically entails migrating huge
    amounts of data between incompatible devices. Once that is
    completed, organizations face the challenge of automating the
    tiering process and the management of aging files.


 


    Whether or not they deploy tiered file systems, many
    organizations are beginning to address the mounting cost in time
    and resources of backing up data stored on employee desktops,
    local file servers, and other devices. According to some
    estimates, approximately 80% of the files organizations back up
    have not changed since the previous
    back-up.
    Worse yet, a large and growing percentage are music and video
    files, family photographs, and other personal files.


 


    Responding to increasing demand from IT organizations, a number
    of storage vendors and a handful of other companies offer
    solutions that address some or all of these issues and can be
    loosely grouped under the heading of file virtualization.
    Collectively, these solutions encompass a variety of
    technological approaches designed to optimize and simplify the
    storage of unstructured data.


 



    F5
    Solutions


 



    Application
    Delivery Networking


 


    F5 Networks is a leading provider of application delivery
    networking products that ensure the security, optimization and
    availability of applications for any user, anywhere. We believe
    our products offer the most intelligent architecture and
    advanced functionality in the marketplace along with performance
    and flexibility that enable organizations to simplify management
    of their data center operations and integrate disparate
    resources to reduce operating costs and improve service to
    employees, customers and partners.


 


    Software Based Products.  From inception, we
    have been committed to the belief that the complexity of
    application-level processing requires the flexibility of a
    software-based solution. We believe our modular software
    architecture enables us to deliver the broadest range of
    integrated functionality in the market and facilitates the
    addition and integration of new functionality. We also believe
    that integrating our software with hardware components enables
    us to build products that deliver superior performance,
    functionality and flexibility at competitive prices. We have
    introduced virtual (software only) versions of BIG-IP LTM and
    FirePass to provide our customers with versions that complement
    our hardware based platforms.


 


    Full Proxy Architecture.  The core of our
    software technology is TMOS introduced in September 2004. We
    believe TMOS is a major enhancement of our previous technology
    that enables our products to deliver functionality that is
    superior on many levels to any other application delivery
    networking product in the market. With TMOS, our products can
    inspect, modify and direct both inbound and outbound traffic
    flows across multiple packets. This ability to manage
    application traffic to and from servers adds value to
    applications that pass through our devices in ways that are not
    possible with other application delivery networking solutions.
    In April 2009, we introduced a major upgrade (Version 10.0) of
    TMOS that includes more than 130 new features, more than 90
    application-ready solution templates, and a number of
    performance enhancements, all designed to leverage the advanced
    features and performance of our recently upgraded family of
    BIG-IP hardware platforms. Since then, we have introduced TMOS
    versions 10.1 and 10.2, which include support for clustered
    multiprocessing and many new features and functions specifically
    designed to optimize virtual data centers and enable on-demand
    access to internal and external resources.




    
    6



Table of Contents





    Modular Functionality.  In addition to its full
    proxy architecture, TMOS is designed to facilitate the
    development and integration of application delivery networking
    functions as modules that can be added to BIG-IP’s core
    functionality to keep pace with rapidly evolving customer needs.
    Feature modules that are available as add ons to TMOS Version
    10.0 include: Advanced Client Authentication, Advanced Routing,
    Fast Cache, Intelligent Compression, IPv6 Gateway, L7 Rate
    Shaping, Message Security Module, Protocol Security Module and
    SSL Acceleration. Product modules include: Local Traffic
    Manager, Application Security Manager (ASM), Global Traffic
    Manager (GTM), Link Controller, WebAccelerator, Edge Gateway,
    WAN Optimization Module and Access Policy Manager.


 


    Application Awareness.  The open architecture
    of TMOS includes an application programming interface (API)
    called iControl that allows our products to communicate with one
    another and with third-party software and devices. Through this
    unique feature, third-party applications and network devices can
    take an active role in shaping IP network traffic, directing
    traffic based on exact business requirements defined by our
    customers and solutions partners and tailored to specific
    applications. This “application awareness” capability
    is a key feature of our software-based products and further
    differentiates our solutions from those of our competitors.


 


    Application-Specific Configurations.  Developed
    and tested in collaboration with our solutions partners,
    Application Ready Solutions are configurations designed to
    optimize BIG-IP deployments for specific applications such as
    those provided by Oracle, Microsoft, Siebel, and SAP, as well as
    generic applications delivered via HTTP. With TMOS Version 10.0,
    we introduced templates that reduce the time and effort
    necessary to configure BIG-IP for a specific application. The
    configuration created is optimal for BIG-IP devices and the
    specific application for which the template was created and can
    be further customized for the specific conditions of an
    organization’s unique infrastructure and environment. Like
    other configuration details of BIG-IP devices, these templates
    can easily be shared across multiple BIG-IP deployments.


 


    Adaptive Intelligence.  The full-proxy
    capabilities of TMOS enable it to inspect or “read”
    the entire contents of a transmission across multiple packets
    and identify specific elements of that transmission, including
    items such as names, dates, and any type of number or label. By
    taking advantage of our unique scripting capability, based on
    TCL, customers can use those elements as variables to create
    iRules that modify the content and direct the flow of traffic in
    ways tailored to the dynamic needs of their applications. iRules
    is a unique feature of TMOS that gives our products flexibility
    we believe is unmatched by competing products.


 


    Integrated Application Layer Solutions.  The
    combination of our full proxy architecture and enhanced iRules
    enables BIG-IP to intercept, inspect and act on the contents of
    traffic from virtually every type of
    IP-enabled
    application. In addition, the modularity of the TMOS
    architecture allows us to deliver tightly integrated solutions
    that secure, optimize and ensure the availability of
    applications and the networks they run on.


 



    Data
    Solutions


 


    F5’s data solutions products address many of the problems
    associated with managing today’s rapidly expanding file
    storage infrastructure. Our ARX product family of intelligent
    file virtualization solutions represents a unique set of
    capabilities that optimize the performance and utilization of
    NAS systems.


 


    Non-disruptive Data Migration.  ARX products
    automate the movement of files between heterogeneous storage
    devices without affecting access and without requiring client
    reconfiguration. Enterprises can perform seamless
    hardware & software upgrades on file storage
    platforms, server consolidation, even vendor switches, all
    during business hours.


 


    Automated Storage Tiering.  ARX products
    automate the movement of data between tiers of storage, and the
    placement of data on appropriate tiers of storage, irrespective
    of platform or vendor. Organizations can lower the cost of
    storage and shrink backup and recovery windows by automatically
    placing data on appropriate storage devices without affecting
    access to the data.


 


    Dynamic Load Balancing.  ARX products
    dynamically distribute files across multiple file storage
    devices, eliminating “hotspots” or bottlenecks.
    Companies can improve application performance and increase
    productivity using the storage infrastructure that is already in
    place.




    
    7



Table of Contents





    Efficient Data Replication.  ARX products
    provide the ability to replicate files between heterogeneous
    storage platforms for efficient and cost effective disaster
    recovery and centralized backup applications.


 


    Centralized Data Management.  Introduced in
    October 2008, Data Manager simplifies file virtualization
    deployments and helps organizations monitor multiple file
    storage resources through a centralized and extensible storage
    management platform. Data Manager can quickly identify areas
    within an organization’s file storage resources that could
    be improved by file virtualization and gives customers the tools
    to create a more efficient and cost-effective storage
    infrastructure.


 



    Strategy


 


    Our objective is to lead the industry in delivering network
    architectures that integrate IP networks with applications and
    data, enabling the delivery of dynamic services in the data
    center. Those services can include orchestration of data center
    operations and resources, security, and optimization, as well as
    coordination of services spanning multiple data centers. Our
    products provide strategic points of control in the IT
    infrastructure that allow business policies to be implemented
    where information is exchanged. This enables organizations to
    respond quickly to changing business needs, improve costly and
    time consuming business processes and develop new sources of
    revenue through highly differentiated offerings. Key components
    of our strategy include:


 



    Offering
    a complete, integrated application delivery product
    suite.


 


    Since the introduction of our TMOS architecture for application
    delivery networking, we have developed TMOS-based versions of
    our own legacy products, such as GTM and Link Controller, and
    acquired technology, including ASM, WebAccelerator, WAN
    Optimization Module (WOM), Edge Gateway and Application Policy
    Manager (APM). All of these products are currently available as
    software modules on our BIG-IP family of application delivery
    controllers. We believe this approach sharply differentiates our
    products from our competitors’ offerings and provides
    customers with an expanding array of integrated application
    delivery networking solutions that can be customized to meet
    their specific needs.


 



    Investing
    in technology to meet evolving customer needs.


 


    We continue to invest in research and development to provide our
    customers with comprehensive, integrated solutions. In
    application delivery networking, our product development efforts
    leverage the unique attributes of our software-based platforms
    to deliver new features and functions that address the complex,
    changing needs of our customers. Our ongoing investments in ARX
    are aimed at providing data solutions for the complex challenge
    of efficiently storing and managing the huge and growing volume
    of unstructured files created by network users and applications.
    Although the bulk of our investment in application delivery and
    file virtualization technologies is software development,
    concurrent development of tightly integrated, high-performance
    hardware is a key part of our investment strategy. To ensure
    performance and cost competitiveness, we incorporate commodity
    components in all of our hardware products.


 



    Enhancing
    channel sales and distribution model.


 


    We continue to invest significant resources in developing and
    expanding our indirect sales and distribution channels by
    cultivating our relationships with our existing partners and
    actively developing new relationships. Our efforts to recruit
    new partners are aimed primarily at large value-added resellers,
    systems integrators, and industry-leading systems manufacturers.


 



    Continuing
    to build and expand relationships with strategic technology
    partners.


 


    To compete successfully against Cisco Systems, Inc. and other
    large competitors who have an established presence in our target
    accounts, we have developed strategic technology partnerships
    with enterprise software vendors, such as Microsoft, Oracle and
    SAP, who often have an established presence in those accounts.
    By taking advantage of our open application programming
    interface, called iControl, these vendors can equip their
    applications to control our products in the network, enhancing
    overall application performance. In return, they





    
    8



Table of Contents





    provide us significant leverage in the selling process by
    recommending our products to their customers. We have also
    worked closely with several of these vendors to develop
    configurations of our products, called Application Ready
    Solutions, that are specifically tuned to simplify deployment
    and optimize the performance of their applications. These
    solutions are available as templates which allow quick and easy
    configuration of our products for specific applications. We plan
    to continue building on our existing relationships and to extend
    our competitive edge by developing new relationships with other
    strategic partners.


 



    Leveraging
    DevCentral, our online community of network architects and
    developers.


 


    Customization of our products using iRules enhances their
    “stickiness” by allowing customers to solve problems
    in both their applications and their networks that would be
    difficult if not impossible to solve by other means. To promote
    the use of iRules, we host an online community where network
    architects and developers can discuss and share the ways in
    which they use iRules to solve problems and enhance the
    security, performance and availability of applications. A
    corollary benefit is that many of the iRules solutions posted by
    DevCentral participants have become standard features in new
    releases of TMOS.


 



    Enhancing
    our brand.


 


    We believe F5 has achieved industry-wide recognition as the
    leading provider of application delivery networking products
    that optimize the security, performance and availability of
    network applications, servers and storage systems. We plan to
    continue investing in programs to promote the F5 brand and make
    it synonymous with superior technology, high quality customer
    service, trusted advice and definitive business value.


 



    Products


 


    Our core technology is hardware and software for application
    delivery networking, including application security, secure
    remote access, policy management, WAN optimization and file
    virtualization.


 


    Our principal products are systems that integrate our software
    with purpose-built hardware that incorporates commodity
    components. In addition, we recently introduced a virtual
    (software only) version of BIG-IP called BIG-IP LTM (VE) that is
    designed to run on servers and work in conjunction with our
    systems to provide more granular management of virtual servers
    and applications. Our BIG-IP product family, which represents
    the bulk of our sales, supports a growing number of features and
    functions available as software modules, standalone appliances,
    or both. GTM, Link Controller, ASM and WebAccelerator are
    available as both software modules and appliances. WOM and APM
    are available only as software modules, and Edge Gateway is sold
    only as a separate, stand-alone appliance.


 



    BIG-IP
    Application Delivery Controllers


 


    Products in our family of BIG-IP application delivery
    controllers all run TMOS and differ primarily in the hardware
    configurations that make up each system. Our current family of
    hardware platforms, designed to exploit the advanced features,
    functionality and performance of TMOS Version 10, includes
    BIG-IP 1600, BIG-IP 3600, BIG-IP 3900, BIG-IP 6900, BIG-IP 8900,
    BIG-IP 8950, BIG-IP 11050 and VIPRION, our chassis-based
    application delivery controller. In addition to local area
    traffic management, which is standard on every system, BIG-IP
    supports a growing number of add-on software products and
    features. Software products currently available for BIG-IP
    platforms include GTM, Link Controller, ASM, WebAccelerator, WOM
    and APM. Software features available on TMOS include Advanced
    Client Authentication, Advanced Routing, Fast Cache, Intelligent
    Compression, IPv6 Gateway, L7 Rate Shaping, Message Security
    Module, Protocol Security Module and SSL Acceleration.


 



    VIPRION


 


    Introduced in January 2008, VIPRION is our chassis-based
    application delivery controller that scales from one to four
    blades, each equipped with two dual-core processors. In January
    2010 we introduced the PB 200 blade, equivalent in
    performance to a BIG-IP 8950 and double the performance of the
    previous blade.





    
    9



Table of Contents





    Using clustered multiprocessing, custom disaggregation ASICs and
    advanced software, VIPRION allows customers to add or remove
    blades without disrupting traffic and distributes traffic across
    all available processors, effectively creating a single virtual
    processor. VIPRION helps customers simplify their networks by
    offloading servers and consolidating devices, saving management
    costs as well as power, space, and cooling in the datacenter and
    by reducing the number of application delivery controllers they
    need to deliver even the most demanding applications. By
    offloading computationally intense processes, VIPRION can also
    significantly reduce the number of application servers needed.


 



    FirePass


 


    FirePass appliances provide SSL VPN access for remote users of
    IP networks and any applications connected to those networks
    from any standard Web browser on any device. The components of
    FirePass include a dynamic policy engine, which manages user
    authentication and authorization privileges, and special
    components that enable corporations to give remote users
    controlled access to the full array of applications and
    resources within the network. FirePass also supports Application
    Ready Access, providing full reverse-proxy services for
    market-leading application portals including those of SAP,
    Oracle, Microsoft, and others.


 


    Currently, we sell three FirePass products: The FirePass 1200
    appliance is designed for small to medium enterprises and branch
    offices and supports from 10 to 100 concurrent users. The
    FirePass 4100 controller is designed for medium size enterprises
    and, from a price/performance standpoint, is recommended for up
    to 500 concurrent users. The FirePass 4300 appliance is
    designed for medium to large enterprises and service providers
    and supports up to 2,000 concurrent users. In addition, we
    recently introduced FirePass Virtual Edition, which runs in a
    VMware ESXi 4.0 virtual environment and is designed for medium
    to large enterprises and service providers. It supports up to
    2,000 concurrent users and offers a comprehensive virtual
    solution for secure, web-based remote access to corporate
    applications and desktops.


 



    Application
    Security Manager (ASM)


 


    ASM is a Web application firewall that provides comprehensive,
    proactive, application-layer protection against both generalized
    and targeted attacks. Available as a software module on BIG-IP
    LTM, ASM employs a positive security model (“deny all
    unless allowed’’) combined with signature-based
    detection. As a result, ASM can prevent “day-zero”
    attacks in addition to known security threats. ASM is also
    available as a module or a stand-alone hardware platform.


 



    WebAccelerator


 


    WebAccelerator speeds web transactions by optimizing individual
    network object requests, connections, and
    end-to-end
    transactions from the browser through to databases.
    WebAccelerator enhances web application performance from any
    location, speeding up interactive performance, improving
    download times, utilizing bandwidth more efficiently, and
    dramatically reducing the cost and response time of delivering
    Web-enabled applications to distributed users where it is not
    possible to deploy an end point device. WebAccelerator devices
    can also be placed at key remote locations to provide
    acceleration to end-users above and beyond TCP optimizations and
    HTTP compression.


 


    WebAccelerator is available as a software module on BIG-IP LTM
    or as a stand-alone appliance.


 



    WAN
    Optimization Module (WOM)


 


    BIG-IP’s WAN Optimization Module integrates application
    delivery with WAN optimization technologies, enabling
    traditional acceleration functionality, such as SSL offloading,
    compression, caching, and traffic prioritization to combine with
    optimization technologies like symmetric adaptive compression
    and application quality of service. As the foundation for
    site-to-site
    communication, iSessions, a basic feature of TMOS, allows any
    two BIG-IP devices to be deployed symmetrically, creating a
    secure
    site-to-site
    connection, improving transfer rates and bandwidth usage, and
    offloading applications for more efficient data center to data
    center WAN communication.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    WOM is available only as a software module on BIG-IP LTM.


 



    Access
    Policy Manager (APM)


 


    BIG-IP APM provides secure, granular, context-aware control of
    access to web applications while simplifying authentication,
    authorization, and accounting (AAA) management. An optional
    endpoint security service validates devices to protect
    organizations from viruses or malware infections, accidental
    data loss, and rogue device access.


 


    With AAA control directly on the BIG-IP system, users can apply
    repeatable access policies across many applications and servers
    while gaining centralized visibility of your authorization
    infrastructure. APM’s Visual Policy Editor makes it easy to
    create individual and group access policies for many different
    identities, locations, and web authentication environments. APM
    also provides dynamic access control by creating L4 and L7
    access control lists based on user identity, IP address, and
    attributes such as group membership pulled from the standard
    directory services.


 



    Edge
    Gateway


 


    BIG-IP Edge Gateway is an advanced remote access product that
    provides context-aware, policy controlled, secure remote access
    to applications at LAN speed. Edge Gateway integrates SSL VPN
    remote access with application acceleration and optimization
    services at the edge of the network, combining remote access,
    access control,
    site-to-site
    security, and application acceleration all on one efficient,
    scalable, and cost-effective platform. An optional endpoint
    security service validates devices with policy to protect
    organizations from viruses or malware infections, accidental
    data loss, and rogue device access.


 


    Edge Gateway is available only as a standalone solution on the
    BIG-IP 1600, 3600, 3900, 6900 and 8900 platforms.


 



    Enterprise
    Manager


 


    Enterprise Manager takes advantage of our iControl interface to
    provide a single, centralized management console for our ADN
    products. Enterprise Manager allows customers with dozens or
    hundreds of our products to discover and view those products in
    a single window, and to upgrade or modify the software on those
    products simultaneously. This lowers the cost and simplifies the
    task of deploying, managing and maintaining our products and
    reduces the likelihood of error when blanket changes are
    implemented.


 


    Enterprise Manager 4000 is an appliance-based device, shipped on
    a dedicated, enterprise-grade platform.


 



    ARX


 


    The ARX product family is a series of high performance,
    enterprise-class intelligent file virtualization devices that
    dramatically simplify the management of file storage
    environments and lower total storage costs by automating data
    management tasks and eliminating the disruption associated with
    storage management operations. ARX can:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    reduce storage costs by matching the business value of data to
    the cost of storage;




 



     
        • 

    
    optimize backups by minimizing the backup of redundant data to
    reduce backup and recovery times, media consumption, and costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    maximize value of existing storage by improve utilization,
    reclaiming stranded capacity, and deferring additional storage
    purchases;




 



     
        • 

    
    simplify management by performing storage provisioning and
    decommissioning without disrupting users; improve flexibility
    and choice by moving data easily to any storage device or
    location.





 


    Currently, the ARX series includes three products. ARX 500 and
    ARX 2000 are stand-alone devices that can support up to 600 and
    6,000 users, respectively. ARX 4000 is a fixed form-factor
    device supporting 10 gigabit Ethernet, capable of managing
    more than 2 billion files, and able to support up to 12,000
    users.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Data
    Manager


 


    Data Manager is a software product that interfaces directly with
    most file storage devices, including ARX file virtualization
    platforms. Data Manager gathers valuable file storage statistics
    and provides graphical reporting and trending functions to give
    users visibility into their constantly changing data storage
    environments, helping them respond to business needs and better
    plan for future growth. With Data Manager users can quickly
    identify areas within their file storage resources that could be
    improved by file virtualization and monitor multiple resources
    with a centralized, extensible storage management platform.


 



    Enabling
    Technologies


 


    iControl is an application programming interface that allows
    customers and independent software vendors to modify their
    programs to communicate with our products, eliminating the need
    for human involvement, lowering the cost of performing basic
    network functions and reducing the likelihood of error. Although
    we do not derive revenue from iControl itself, the sale of
    iControl-enabled applications by independent software vendors
    such as Microsoft and Oracle helps promote and often leads
    directly to sales of our other products.


 


    iRules is a programming language embedded in our TMOS
    architecture that allows customers to customize the way BIG-IP
    application delivery controllers manipulate and manage any IP
    application traffic. iRules has an
    easy-to-learn
    scripting syntax that enables users to program BIG-IP
    application delivery controllers to intercept, inspect,
    transform, and direct inbound or outbound application traffic
    according to their specific needs.


 



    Product
    Development


 


    We believe our future success depends on our ability to maintain
    technology leadership by continuing to improve our products and
    by developing new products to meet the changing needs of our
    customers. Our product development group employs a standard
    process for the development, documentation and quality control
    of software and systems that is designed to meet these goals.
    This process includes working with our business development and
    marketing teams, product managers, customers and partners to
    identify new or improved solutions that meet the evolving needs
    of our addressable markets.


 


    Our principal software engineering group is located in our
    headquarters in Seattle, Washington. Our core product
    development teams for FirePass, WOM and WebAccelerator are
    located in San Jose, California. Our core ASM product
    development team is located in Tel Aviv, Israel. Our ARX product
    development team is located in Lowell, Massachusetts. Our
    hardware engineering group is located in Spokane, Washington. In
    addition, we maintain a dedicated facility for product testing
    and quality control in Tomsk, Russia. Members of all these teams
    collaborate closely with one another to ensure the
    interoperability and performance of our hardware and software
    systems.


 


    During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010, 2009 and
    2008, we had research and product development expenses of
    $118.3 million, $103.7 million, and
    $103.4 million, respectively.


 



    Customers


 


    Our customers include a wide variety of enterprise customers and
    service providers among Fortune 1000 and Business Week
    Global 1000 companies, including those in technology,
    telecommunications, financial services, transportation,
    education, manufacturing and healthcare, along with government
    customers. In fiscal year 2010, international sales represented
    41.4% of our net revenues. Refer to Note 12 of our
    consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K
    for additional information regarding our revenues by geographic
    area.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Sales and
    Marketing


 



    Sales


 


    We sell our products and services to large enterprise customers
    and service providers through a variety of channels, including
    distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”) and
    systems integrators. A substantial amount of our revenue for
    fiscal year 2010 was derived from these channel sales. Our sales
    teams work closely with our channel partners and also sell our
    products and services directly to a limited number of major
    accounts.


 


    F5 sales teams.  Our inside sales team
    generates and qualifies leads for regional sales managers and
    helps manage accounts by serving as a liaison between the field
    and internal corporate resources. Our field sales personnel are
    located in major cities in four sales regions: the Americas
    (primarily the United States); Europe, the Middle East, and
    Africa (EMEA); Japan; and the Asia Pacific region (APAC). Field
    sales personnel work closely with our channel partners to assist
    them, as necessary, in the sale of our products and services to
    their customers. We also sell our products and services directly
    to a limited group of customers, primarily large enterprises,
    whose accounts are managed by our major account services team.
    Field systems engineers support our regional sales managers and
    channel partners by participating in joint sales calls and
    providing pre-sale technical resources as needed.


 


    Distributors and VARs.  Consistent with our
    goal of building a strong channel sales model, we have
    established relationships with a number of large national and
    international distributors, local and specialized distributors
    and VARs. We derive a majority of our product sales from these
    distributors and VARs.


 


    Our agreements with these channel partners are not exclusive and
    do not prevent them from selling competitive products. These
    agreements typically have terms of one year with no obligation
    to renew, and typically do not provide for exclusive sales
    territories or minimum purchase requirements.


 


    For fiscal year 2010, sales to two of our distributors, Avnet
    Technology Solutions and Tech Data, represented 14.5% and 10.2%
    of our total revenues, respectively. Our agreements with these
    distributors are standard, non-exclusive distribution agreements
    that renew automatically on an annual basis and can be
    terminated by either party with 30 days prior written
    notice. The agreements grant Avnet Technology Solutions and Tech
    Data the right to distribute our products to resellers in North
    America and certain other territories internationally, with no
    minimum purchase requirements.


 


    Systems integrators.  We also market our
    products through strategic relationships with systems
    integrators, including Dell Services, HP Enterprise Services and
    IBM Global Services, who include our products as core components
    of application or network-based solutions they deploy for their
    customers. In most cases, systems integrators do not directly
    purchase our products for resale to their customers. Instead
    they typically recommend our products as part of broader
    solutions, such as enterprise resource planning (ERP) or
    customer relationship management (CRM) solutions that
    incorporate our products for high availability and enhanced
    performance.


 



    Marketing


 


    Our marketing strategy is driven by the belief that our
    continued success depends on our ability to understand and
    anticipate the dynamic needs of our addressable markets and to
    develop valuable solutions that meet those needs. In line with
    this belief, our marketing organization works directly with
    customers, partners and our product development teams to
    identify and create innovative solutions to further enhance our
    leadership position. In addition, our business development team,
    which is a component of our marketing organization, closely
    monitors technology companies in adjacent and complementary
    markets for opportunities to acquire or partner with those whose
    solutions are complementary to ours and could enable us to
    expand our addressable market.


 


    Another key component of our marketing strategy is to develop
    and expand our iControl partnerships. Working closely with our
    partners, we have developed solution sets called Application
    Ready Solutions that help ensure the successful deployment and
    delivery of their applications over the network. These Solutions
    have been integrated into TMOS Version 10.0 as templates that
    allow customers to configure our products





    
    13



Table of Contents





    quickly and easily to optimize the performance of specific
    applications from major software vendors such as Microsoft,
    Oracle and SAP.


 


    To support the growing number of developers using our products,
    including network and application architects, we continue to
    promote and expand DevCentral, our on-line community website
    that provides technical resources to customers, prospects and
    partners wanting to extend and optimize F5 solutions using
    iRules. A key aspect of DevCentral is an on-line forum where
    developers as well as application and network architects discuss
    and share solutions they have written with iRules. At the end of
    fiscal year 2010, DevCentral had more than 70,000 registered
    members.


 


    We also engage in a number of marketing programs and initiatives
    aimed at promoting our brand and creating market awareness of
    our technology and products. These include actively
    participating in industry trade shows and joint marketing events
    with channel and technology partners, and briefing industry
    analysts and members of the trade press on our latest products,
    business relationships and technology partnerships. In addition,
    we market our products to chief information officers and other
    information technology professionals through targeted
    advertising, direct mail and high-profile Web events.


 



    Backlog


 


    At the end of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, we had product backlog
    of approximately $50.3 million and $35.5 million,
    respectively. Backlog represents orders confirmed with a
    purchase order for products to be shipped generally within
    90 days to customers with approved credit status. Orders
    are subject to cancellation, rescheduling by customers or
    product specification changes by customers. Although we believe
    that the backlog orders are firm, purchase orders may be
    cancelled by the customer prior to shipment without significant
    penalty. For this reason, we believe that our product backlog at
    any given date is not a reliable indicator of future revenues.


 



    Customer
    Service and Technical Support


 


    We believe that our ability to provide consistent, high-quality
    customer service and technical support is a key factor in
    attracting and retaining large enterprise customers.
    Accordingly, we offer a broad range of support services that
    include installation, phone support, hardware repair and
    replacement, software updates, consulting and training services.
    We deliver these services directly to end users and also utilize
    a multi-tiered support model, leveraging the capabilities of our
    channel partners when applicable. Our technical support staff is
    strategically located in regional service centers to support our
    global customer base.


 


    Prior to the installation of our products, our services
    personnel work with customers to analyze their network needs and
    determine the best way to deploy our products and configure
    product features and functions to meet those needs. Our services
    personnel also provide
    on-site
    installation and training services to help customers make
    optimal use of product features and functions.


 


    Our customers typically purchase a one-year maintenance contract
    which entitles them to an array of services provided by our
    technical support team. Maintenance services provided under the
    contract include online updates, software error correction
    releases, hardware repair and replacement, and, in the majority
    of cases,
    round-the-clock
    call center support. Updates to our software are only available
    to customers with a current maintenance contract. Our technical
    support team also offers seminars and training classes for
    customers on the configuration and use of products, including
    local and wide area network system administration and
    management. In addition, we have a professional services team
    able to provide a full range of fee-based consulting services,
    including comprehensive network management, documentation and
    performance analysis, and capacity planning to assist in
    predicting future network requirements.


 


    We also offer, as part of our maintenance service, an online,
    automated, self-help customer support function called “Ask
    F5” that allows customers to answer many commonly asked
    questions without having to call our support desk. This allows
    the customer to rapidly address issues and questions, while
    significantly reducing the number of calls to our support desk.
    This enables us to provide comprehensive customer support while
    keeping our support-related expenses at a manageable, consistent
    level.




    
    14



Table of Contents






    Manufacturing


 


    We outsource the manufacturing of our pre-configured hardware
    platforms to third party contract manufacturers for assembly
    according to our specifications.


 


    We outsource the majority of our manufacturing to Tier 1
    Electronic Manufacturing Services providers. Flextronics
    manufactures our ADC product line and Sanmina-SCI manufactures
    our ARX product line. The subcontracting activity at Flextronics
    and Sanmina-SCI encompasses prototype builds, full production
    and direct fulfillment. Our contract manufacturers perform the
    following activities on our behalf: material procurement, PCB
    assembly and test, final assembly, system test, quality control,
    direct shipment and warranty repairs. We provide a rolling
    forecast that allows our contract manufacturers to stock
    component parts and other materials, plan capacity and build
    finished goods inventory in anticipation of end user demand.
    Each of the contract manufacturers procures components in
    volumes consistent with our forecast, necessary to assemble the
    products and tests the products according to our specifications.
    Products are then shipped to our distributors, value-added
    resellers, or end users. Generally, we do not own the
    components. Title to the products transfers from the contract
    manufacturers to us and then to our customers upon delivery at a
    designated shipment location. If the components are unused or
    the products are not sold within specified periods of time, we
    may incur carrying charges or obsolete material charges for
    components that our contract manufacturers purchased to build
    products to meet our forecast or customer orders.


 


    Hardware platforms for our products consist primarily of
    commodity parts and certain custom components designed and
    approved by our hardware engineering group. Most of our
    components are purchased from sources which we believe are
    readily available from other suppliers. However, several
    components used in the assembly of our products are purchased
    from a single or limited source.


 


    During fiscal year 2010, we transitioned certain
    sub-assembly
    and testing processes of our BIG-IP products from
    Flextronics’s facilities in Milpitas, California, to the
    Flextronics facility in ZhuHai, China. All
    sub-assemblies
    are configured and final tested at Flextronics’s Milpitas,
    California for distribution to our end users.


 



    Competition


 


    The expanding capabilities of our product offerings have enabled
    us to address a growing array of opportunities, many of which
    are outside the bounds of the traditional Layer 4-7 market.
    Within what Gartner Group has defined as the Application
    Acceleration market, we compete in the Application Delivery
    Controller (ADC) market, which encompasses the traditional Layer
    4-7 market, and, to a lesser extent, the WAN Optimization
    Controller (WOC) market. Over the next several years, we believe
    these two markets will merge as WAN optimization effectively
    becomes a feature of Application Delivery. Today, we offer
    WebAccelerator and WOM as software modules on most all BIG-IP
    products.


 


    In fiscal year 2010, approximately 95% of our products and
    services were sold into the ADN market where our primary
    competitor is Cisco Systems, Inc. Other competitors in this
    market include Citrix Systems, Inc., Brocade Communications
    Systems, Inc., Radware Ltd, and a number of smaller competitors
    including A10 Networks, Array Networks, Inc., Barracuda
    Networks, Inc., Crescendo Networks, and Zeus Technology Ltd. In
    the adjacent WAN Optimization Controller market, we compete with
    Riverbed Technology, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., Blue Coat
    Systems, Inc., Cisco and Citrix. Currently, we do not compete in
    the branch office segment of the WOC market, which features
    products offered by Riverbed, Blue Coat, Cisco and others.


 


    While file virtualization remains an early-stage market, we
    believe our ARX products are unique in terms of technology and
    functionality and are well positioned within this emerging
    market. Large storage vendors such as EMC Corporation offer
    competing products with overlapping functionality. However, we
    believe there are no competing products that offer all of the
    features, functions and capabilities of our ARX products.


 


    The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we
    compete include: product performance and features; customer
    support; brand recognition; the scope of distribution and sales
    channels; and pricing. Many of our competitors have a longer
    operating history and greater financial, technical, marketing
    and other resources than we do. These larger competitors also
    have a more extensive customer base and broader





    
    15



Table of Contents





    customer relationships, including relationships with many of our
    current and potential customers. In addition, many have large,
    well-established, worldwide customer support and professional
    services organizations and more extensive direct sales force and
    sales channels. Because of our relatively smaller size, market
    presence and resources, our larger competitors may be able to
    respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies
    and changes in customer requirements. These companies may also
    adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and
    trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our
    intellectual property rights. We have obtained 69 patents in the
    United States, 8 foreign patents and have applications
    pending for various aspects of our technology. Our future
    success depends in part on our ability to protect our
    proprietary rights to the technologies used in our principal
    products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights,
    unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products
    or to obtain and use trade secrets or other information that we
    regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign
    countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do
    the laws of the United States. Any issued patent may not
    preserve our proprietary position, and competitors or others may
    develop technologies similar to or superior to our technology.
    Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property
    rights could harm our business, operating results and financial
    condition.


 


    In addition to our own proprietary software, we incorporate
    software licensed from several third-party sources into our
    products. These licenses generally renew automatically on an
    annual basis. We believe that alternative technologies for these
    licenses are available both domestically and internationally.


 



    Employees


 


    As of September 30, 2010, we had 2,012 full-time
    employees, including 509 in product development, 856 in
    sales and marketing, 421 in professional services and technical
    support and 226 in finance, administration and operations. None
    of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have
    experienced no work stoppages and believe that our employee
    relations are good.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following table sets forth certain information with respect
    to our executive officers as of November 23, 2010:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 






    John McAdam



 

 


    59

 


 


    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director





    Mark Anderson



 

 


    48

 


 


    Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales





    Jeffrey A. Christianson



 

 


    53

 


 


    Senior Vice President and General Counsel





    Edward J. Eames



 

 


    52

 


 


    Senior Vice President of Business Operations





    Dan Matte



 

 


    44

 


 


    Senior Vice President of Marketing and Business Development





    Andy Reinland



 

 


    46

 


 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Finance Officer





    John Rodriguez



 

 


    50

 


 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer





    Karl Triebes



 

 


    43

 


 


    Senior Vice President of Product Development and Chief Technical
    Officer








 


    John McAdam has served as our President, Chief Executive
    Officer and a director since July 2000. Prior to joining us,
    Mr. McAdam served as General Manager of the Web server
    sales business at International Business Machines Corporation
    from September 1999 to July 2000. From January 1995 until August
    1999, Mr. McAdam served as the President and Chief
    Operating Officer of Sequent Computer Systems, Inc., a
    manufacturer of high-end open systems, which was sold to
    International Business Machines Corporation in September 1999.
    Mr. McAdam holds a B.S. in Computer Science from the
    University of Glasgow, Scotland.




    
    16



Table of Contents





    Mark Anderson has served as our Senior Vice President of
    Worldwide Sales since October 2007. He joined F5 Networks in
    October 2004 as Vice President of North American Sales. Prior to
    joining F5, Mr. Anderson served as Executive Vice President
    of North American Sales at Lucent Technologies from 2003 to
    2004. From 2002 through 2003, Mr. Anderson was Vice
    President of Business Development at RadioFrame Networks. From
    1997 to 2001, he served as a Sales Director at Cisco Systems,
    Inc. From 1986 to 1996, he was Vice President of Western
    U.S. Sales at Comdisco. Mr. Anderson holds a B.A. in
    Business and Economics from York University in Toronto.


 


    Jeffrey A. Christianson has served as our Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of the Company since December
    2006. From February 2000 to July 2006, Mr. Christianson was
    Sr. Vice President and General Counsel of Western Wireless
    Corporation, a wireless service provider. From March 1996 to
    January 2000, Mr. Christianson served as Sr. Vice President
    of Business Development, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
    at Wizards of the Coast, Inc., a game and software company. From
    September 1992 to March 1996, he served as General Counsel and
    Secretary of Heart Technology, Inc., a medical device company.
    From September 1990 to September 1992, he was Vice-President and
    General Counsel of Spider Staging Corporation and Vice President
    of Administration and Corporate Counsel for Flow International
    Corporation after its acquisition of Spider Staging Corporation.
    Mr. Christianson holds a B.A. from Whitman College and a
    J.D. from the University of Washington, and serves on the Board
    of Overseers of Whitman College and the Board of Directors of
    the Humane Society for Seattle/King County.


 


    Edward J. Eames has served as our Senior Vice President
    of Business Operations since January 2001 and as our Vice
    President of Professional Services from October 2000 to January
    2001. From September 1999 to October 2000, Mr. Eames served
    as Vice President of
    e-Business
    Services for International Business Machines Corporation. From
    June 1992 to September 1999, Mr. Eames served as the
    European Services Director and the Worldwide Vice President of
    Customer Service for Sequent Computer Systems, Inc., a
    manufacturer of high-end open systems. Mr. Eames holds a
    Higher National Diploma in Business Studies from Bristol
    Polytechnic and in 1994 completed the Senior Executive Program
    at the London Business School.


 


    Dan Matte has served as our Senior Vice President of
    Marketing since June 2004, and as Vice President of Product
    Marketing and Management from March 2002 through May 2004. He
    served as our Senior Director of Product Marketing and
    Management from February 2001 through February 2002. From March
    1999 to February 2001, Mr. Matte served as our Director of
    Product Management. Mr. Matte joined F5 in February 1997.
    He holds a Bachelor of Commerce from Queens’s University
    and an MBA from the University of British Columbia.


 


    Andy Reinland has served as our Senior Vice President and
    Chief Finance Officer since October 2005. Mr. Reinland
    joined F5 in 1998, serving as a senior financial analyst and,
    most recently, Vice President of Finance. Prior to joining F5,
    Mr. Reinland was Chief Financial Officer for RTIME, Inc., a
    developer of real-time 3D software for Internet applications,
    which was acquired by Sony. Mr. Reinland started his career
    in public accounting. Mr. Reinland holds a B.A. in Business
    from Washington State University.


 


    John Rodriguez has served as our Senior Vice President
    and Chief Accounting Officer since October 2005. For SEC
    reporting purposes, Mr. Rodriguez is the principal
    financial officer. Rodriguez joined F5 in 2001 as Corporate
    Controller. His most recent position held was Vice President and
    Corporate Controller. Prior to F5, Mr. Rodriguez was Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of CyberSafe, a security
    solutions company, and Senior Director of Finance and Operations
    at Mosaix, which was acquired by Lucent Technologies.
    Mr. Rodriguez started his career in public accounting.
    Mr. Rodriguez holds a B.A. in Business from the University
    of Washington.


 


    Karl Triebes has served as our Senior Vice President of
    Product Development and Chief Technical Officer since August
    2004. Prior to joining us, Mr. Triebes served as Chief
    Technology Officer and Vice President of Engineering of Foundry
    Networks, Inc. from January 2003 to August 2004. From June 2001
    to January 2003, he served as Foundry’s Vice President of
    Hardware Engineering. From May 2000 to June 2001,
    Mr. Triebes was Vice President of Engineering at Alcatel
    U.S.A., a telecommunications company. From December 1999 to May
    2000, he was Assistant Vice President of Newbridge Networks
    Corp., a networking company





    
    17



Table of Contents





    subsequently acquired by Alcatel. Mr. Triebes holds a B.S.
    in Electrical Engineering from San Diego State University.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    In addition to the other information in this report, the
    following risk factors should be carefully considered in
    evaluating our company and its business.


 



    Our
    quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in future
    periods, which may cause our stock price to
    fluctuate


 


    Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied
    significantly in the past and could vary significantly in the
    future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future
    operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a
    variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control,
    including the changing and recently volatile U.S. and
    global economic environment, and any of which may cause our
    stock price to fluctuate. In particular, we anticipate that the
    size of customer orders may increase as we continue to focus on
    larger business accounts. A delay in the recognition of revenue,
    even from just one account, may have a significant negative
    impact on our results of operations for a given period. In the
    past, a majority of our sales have been realized near the end of
    a quarter. Accordingly, a delay in an anticipated sale past the
    end of a particular quarter may negatively impact our results of
    operations for that quarter, or in some cases, that fiscal year.
    Additionally, we have exposure to the credit risks of some of
    our customers and
    sub-tenants.
    Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor
    and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that
    such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks
    adequately. We monitor individual payment capability in granting
    credit arrangements, seek to limit the total credit to amounts
    we believe our customers can pay and maintain reserves we
    believe are adequate to cover exposure for potential losses. If
    there is a deterioration of a
    sub-tenant’s
    or a major customer’s creditworthiness or actual defaults
    are higher than expected, future losses, if incurred, could harm
    our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating
    results. Further, our operating results may be below the
    expectations of securities analysts and investors in future
    quarters or years. Our failure to meet these expectations will
    likely harm the market price of our common stock. Such a decline
    could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met
    our publicly stated revenue
    and/or
    earnings guidance.


 


    In addition to other risks listed in this “Risk
    Factors” section, factors that may affect our operating
    results include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to
    changing market conditions, pricing conditions, technology
    evolution, seasonality, or other changes in the global economic
    environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes or fluctuations in sales and implementation cycles for
    our products and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    reduced visibility into our customers’ spending and
    implementation plans




 



     
        • 

    
    reductions in customers’ budgets for data center and other
    IT purchases or delays in these purchases;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in our gross margins, including the factors
    described herein which may contribute to such fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to control costs, including operating expenses, the
    costs of hardware and software components, and other
    manufacturing costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance of
    new products, technologies and services, and our success in new
    and evolving markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    any significant changes in the competitive environment,
    including the entry of new competitors or the substantial
    discounting of products or services;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing and execution of product transitions or new product
    introductions, and related inventory costs;







    
    18



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products
    sold;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to establish and manage our distribution channels,
    and the effectiveness of any changes we make to our distribution
    model;




 



     
        • 

    
    the ability of our contract manufacturers and suppliers to
    provide component parts, hardware platforms and other products
    in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    benefits anticipated from our investments in sales, marketing,
    product development, manufacturing or other activities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws or regulations, or other accounting rules.





 



    Our
    success depends on our timely development of new products and
    features, market acceptance of new product offerings and proper
    management of the timing of the life cycle of our
    products


 


    The application delivery networking and file virtualization
    markets are characterized by rapid technological change,
    frequent new product introductions, changes in customer
    requirements and evolving industry standards. Our continued
    success depends on our ability to identify and develop new
    products and new features for our existing products to meet the
    demands of these changes, and the acceptance of those products
    and features by our existing and target customers. If we are
    unable to identify, develop and deploy new products and new
    product features on a timely basis, our business and results of
    operations may be harmed.


 


    The current development cycle for our products is on average
    12-24 months.
    The introduction of new products or product enhancements may
    shorten the life cycle of our existing products, or replace
    sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the
    benefit of even a successful product introduction, and may cause
    customers to defer purchasing our existing products in
    anticipation of the new products. This could harm our operating
    results by decreasing sales, increasing our inventory levels of
    older products and exposing us to greater risk of product
    obsolescence. We have also experienced, and may in the future
    experience, delays in developing and releasing new products and
    product enhancements. This has led to, and may in the future
    lead to, delayed sales, increased expenses and lower quarterly
    revenue than anticipated. Also, in the development of our
    products, we have experienced delays in the prototyping of our
    products, which in turn has led to delays in product
    introductions. In addition, complexity and difficulties in
    managing product transitions at the
    end-of-life
    stage of a product can create excess inventory of components
    associated with the outgoing product that can lead to increased
    expenses. Any or all of the above problems could materially harm
    our business and results of operations.


 



    Our
    success depends on sales and continued innovation of our
    Application Delivery Networking product lines


 


    For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, we derived
    approximately 95.4% of our net product revenues, or
    approximately 60.7% of our total net revenues, from sales of our
    Application Delivery Networking (“ADN”) product lines.
    We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net
    revenues from sales of our ADN products in the future.
    Implementation of our strategy depends upon these products being
    able to solve critical network availability and performance
    problems for our customers. If our ADN products are unable to
    solve these problems for our customers or if we are unable to
    sustain the high levels of innovation in our ADN product feature
    set needed to maintain leadership in what will continue to be a
    competitive market environment, our business and results of
    operations will be harmed.


 



    We may
    not be able to compete effectively in the emerging application
    delivery networking and file virtualization
    markets


 


    The markets we serve are new, rapidly evolving and highly
    competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify
    in the future. Our principal competitors in the application
    delivery networking market include Cisco Systems, Inc., Citrix
    Systems, Inc., Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. and Radware
    Ltd. In the adjacent WAN Optimization Controller market, we
    compete with Riverbed Technology, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc.,
    Blue Coat Systems, Inc., Cisco and Citrix. In the file
    virtualization market, we compete with





    
    19



Table of Contents





    EMC Corporation. We expect to continue to face additional
    competition as new participants enter our markets. As we
    continue to expand globally, we may see new competitors in
    different geographic regions. In addition, larger companies with
    significant resources, brand recognition, and sales channels may
    form alliances with or acquire competing application delivery
    networking solutions from other companies and emerge as
    significant competitors. Potential competitors may bundle their
    products or incorporate an Internet traffic management or
    security component into existing products in a manner that
    discourages users from purchasing our products. Any of these
    circumstances may limit our opportunities for growth and
    negatively impact our financial performance.


 



    The
    average selling price of our products may decrease and our costs
    may increase, which may negatively impact gross
    profits


 


    It is possible that the average selling prices of our products
    will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing
    pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions
    by us or our competitors or other factors. Therefore, in order
    to maintain our gross profits, we must develop and introduce new
    products and product enhancements on a timely basis and
    continually reduce our product costs. Our failure to do so will
    cause our net revenue and gross profits to decline, which will
    harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we may
    experience substantial
    period-to-period
    fluctuations in future operating results due to the erosion of
    our average selling prices.


 



    It is
    difficult to predict our future operating results because we
    have an unpredictable sales cycle


 


    Our products have a lengthy sales cycle and the timing of our
    revenue is difficult to predict. Historically, our sales cycle
    has ranged from approximately two to three months and has tended
    to lengthen as we have increasingly focused our sales efforts on
    the enterprise market. Also, as our distribution strategy has
    evolved into more of a channel model, utilizing value-added
    resellers, distributors and systems integrators, the level of
    variability in the length of sales cycle across transactions has
    increased and made it more difficult to predict the timing of
    many of our sales transactions. Sales of our products require us
    to educate potential customers in their use and benefits. Sales
    of our products are subject to delays from the lengthy internal
    budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that
    large corporations and governmental entities may require. For
    example, customers frequently begin by evaluating our products
    on a limited basis and devote time and resources to testing our
    products before they decide whether or not to purchase.
    Customers may also defer orders as a result of anticipated
    releases of new products or enhancements by our competitors or
    us. As a result, our products have an unpredictable sales cycle
    that contributes to the uncertainty of our future operating
    results.


 



    Our
    business may be harmed if our contract manufacturers are not
    able to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or if
    a single source of hardware assembly is lost or
    impaired


 


    We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware platforms to
    third party contract manufacturers who assemble these hardware
    platforms to our specifications. We have experienced minor
    delays in shipments from contract manufacturers in the past.
    However, if we experience major delays in the future or other
    problems, such as inferior quality and insufficient quantity of
    product, any one or a combination of these factors may harm our
    business and results of operations. The inability of our
    contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of
    our products or the loss of one or more of our contract
    manufacturers may cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders
    while we obtain a replacement manufacturer and may harm our
    business and results of operations. In particular, we currently
    subcontract manufacturing of our application delivery networking
    products to a single contract manufacturer with whom we do not
    have a long-term contract. If our arrangement with this single
    source of hardware assembly was terminated or otherwise
    impaired, and we were not able to engage another contract
    manufacturer in a timely manner, our business, financial
    condition and results of operation could be adversely affected.


 


    If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase
    our raw material and component purchases, contract manufacturing
    capacity and internal test and quality control functions. Any
    disruptions in





    
    20



Table of Contents





    product flow may limit our revenue, may harm our competitive
    position and may result in additional costs or cancellation of
    orders by our customers.


 



    Our
    business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays
    in the supply of hardware components from our third-party
    sources


 


    We currently purchase several hardware components used in the
    assembly of our products from a number of single or limited
    sources. Lead times for these components vary significantly. The
    unavailability of suitable components, any interruption or delay
    in the supply of any of these hardware components or the
    inability to procure a similar component from alternate sources
    at acceptable prices within a reasonable time, may delay
    assembly and sales of our products and, hence, our revenues, and
    may harm our business and results of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to governmental export and import controls that could
    subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in
    international markets


 


    Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be
    exported outside the U.S. only with the required level of
    export license or through an export license exception because we
    incorporate encryption technology into our products. In
    addition, various countries regulate the import of certain
    encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our
    ability to distribute our products or our customers’
    ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in
    our products or changes in export and import regulations may
    create delays in the introduction of our products in
    international markets, prevent our customers with international
    operations from deploying our products throughout their global
    systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our
    products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export
    or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach
    to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or change in
    the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such
    regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by,
    or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to,
    existing or potential customers with international operations.
    For example, we will need to comply with Waste Electrical and
    Electronic Equipment Directive laws, which are being adopted by
    certain European Economic Area countries on a
    country-by-country
    basis. Failure to comply with these and similar laws on a timely
    basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operating results and financial condition. Any
    decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to
    export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our
    business, operating results and financial condition.


 



    We may
    not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and
    our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of
    third parties


 


    We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and
    trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure of
    confidential and proprietary information to protect our
    intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our
    proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or
    otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring
    unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be
    certain that the steps we have taken will prevent
    misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign
    countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights
    as fully as in the United States.


 


    Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number
    of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding
    patent and other intellectual property rights. In the ordinary
    course of our business, we are involved in disputes and
    licensing discussions with others regarding their claimed
    proprietary rights and cannot assure you that we will always
    successfully defend ourselves against such claims. We expect
    that infringement claims may increase as the number of products
    and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur.
    Also, as we have gained greater visibility, market exposure and
    competitive success, we face a higher risk of being the subject
    of intellectual property infringement claims. If we are found to
    infringe the proprietary rights of others, or if we otherwise
    settle such claims, we could be compelled to pay damages or
    royalties and either obtain a license to those intellectual
    property rights or alter our products so that they no longer
    infringe upon such proprietary rights. Any license could be very
    expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly,
    changing our products or processes to avoid infringing upon the
    rights of others





    
    21



Table of Contents





    may be costly or impractical. In addition, we have initiated,
    and may in the future initiate, claims or litigation against
    third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights, or to
    determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or
    those of our competitors. Any of these claims, whether claims
    that we are infringing the proprietary rights of others, or vice
    versa, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in
    costly litigation and diversion of technical and management
    personnel or require us to cease using infringing technology,
    develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or
    licensing agreements. Further, our license agreements typically
    require us to indemnify our customers, distributors and
    resellers for infringement actions related to our technology,
    which could cause us to become involved in infringement claims
    made against our customers, distributors or resellers. Any of
    the above-described circumstances relating to intellectual
    property rights disputes could result in our business and
    results of operations being harmed.


 


    Many of our products include intellectual property licensed from
    third parties. In the future, it may be necessary to renew
    licenses for third party intellectual property or obtain new
    licenses for other technology. These third party licenses may
    not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The
    inability to obtain certain licenses, or litigation regarding
    the interpretation or enforcement of license rights and related
    intellectual property issues, could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, operating results and financial
    condition. Furthermore, we license some third party intellectual
    property on a non-exclusive basis and this may limit our ability
    to protect our intellectual property rights in our products.


 



    We may
    not be able to sustain or develop new distribution relationships
    and a reduction or delay in sales to significant distribution
    partners could hurt our business


 


    We sell our products and services through multiple distribution
    channels in the United States and internationally, including
    leading industry distributors, value-added resellers, systems
    integrators, service providers and other indirect channel
    partners. We have a limited number of agreements with companies
    in these channels, and we may not be able to increase our number
    of distribution relationships or maintain our existing
    relationships. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel
    partners and training them in our technologies requires
    significant time and resources. If we are unable to establish or
    maintain our indirect sales channels, our business and results
    of operations will be harmed. In addition, two worldwide
    distributors of our products accounted for 24.7% of our total
    net revenue for fiscal year 2010. One worldwide distributor of
    our products accounted for 15.4% of our total net revenue for
    fiscal year 2009. A substantial reduction or delay in sales of
    our products to these distribution partners, if not replaced by
    sales to other indirect channel partners and distributors, could
    harm our business, operating results and financial condition.


 



    Undetected
    software or hardware errors may harm our business and results of
    operations


 


    Our products may contain undetected errors or defects when first
    introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced
    these errors or defects in the past in connection with new
    products and product upgrades. We expect that these errors or
    defects will be found from time to time in new or enhanced
    products after commencement of commercial shipments. These
    problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair
    costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from
    our product development efforts and cause significant customer
    relations problems. We may also be subject to liability claims
    for damages related to product errors or defects. While we carry
    insurance policies covering this type of liability, these
    policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be
    asserted. A material product liability claim may harm our
    business and results of operations.


 


    Our products must successfully operate with products from other
    vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may
    be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The
    occurrence of software or hardware problems, whether caused by
    our products or another vendor’s products, may result in
    the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products. The
    occurrence of any of these problems may harm our business and
    results of operations.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    Adverse
    general economic conditions or reduced information technology
    spending may adversely impact our business


 


    A substantial portion of our business depends on the demand for
    information technology by large enterprise customers and service
    providers, the overall economic health of our current and
    prospective customers and the continued growth and evolution of
    the Internet. International, national, regional and local
    economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles,
    protracted economic slowdown or further deterioration of the
    economy could adversely impact demand for our products. The
    purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve
    a significant commitment of capital and other resources.
    Continued weak economic conditions or a reduction in information
    technology spending even if economic conditions improve would
    likely result in longer sales cycles and reduced product sales,
    each of which would adversely impact our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.


 



    Our
    investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that
    may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these
    investments


 


    At September 30, 2010, the fair value of our AAA/A- (or
    equivalent) rated municipal auction rate securities
    (“ARS”) was approximately $16.0 million. We may
    not be able to liquidate these ARS and realize their full
    carrying value unless the issuer calls the security, a
    successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the
    auction process, or the security otherwise matures. While we do
    not believe the decline in the carrying values of these
    municipal ARS is permanent, if the issuers of these securities
    are unable to successfully close future auctions and their
    credit ratings are lowered, we may be required to record future
    impairment charges related to these investments, which would
    harm our results of operations. We believe certain of these
    available-for-sale
    investments may remain illiquid for longer than twelve months
    and as a result, we have classified these investments as
    long-term as of September 30, 2010.


 



    Our
    operating results are exposed to risks associated with
    international commerce


 


    As our international sales increase, our operating results
    become more exposed to international operating risks. These
    risks include risks related to recessionary economic cycles or
    protracted slowdowns in economies outside the United States,
    foreign currency exchange rates, managing foreign sales offices,
    regulatory, political or economic conditions in specific
    countries, military conflict or terrorist activities, changes in
    laws and tariffs, inadequate protection of intellectual property
    rights in foreign countries, foreign regulatory requirements and
    natural disasters. All of these factors could have a material
    adverse effect on our business. We intend to continue expanding
    into international markets. International sales represented
    41.4% and 44.7% of our net revenues for the fiscal years ended
    September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.


 



    Changes
    in governmental regulations could negatively affect our
    revenues


 


    Our products are subject to various regulations promulgated by
    the United States and various foreign governments including, but
    not limited to, environmental regulations and regulations
    implementing export license requirements and restrictions on the
    import or export of some technologies, especially encryption
    technology. Changes in governmental regulation and our inability
    or failure to obtain required approvals, permits or
    registrations could harm our international and domestic sales
    and adversely affect our revenues, business and operations.


 



    Changes
    in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected
    revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of
    operations


 


    A change in accounting policies can have a significant effect on
    our reported results and may even affect our reporting of
    transactions completed before the change is effective. New
    pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing
    pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the
    future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the
    interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our
    accounting practices, and such changes could adversely affect
    our reported financial results or the way we conduct our
    business.




    
    23



Table of Contents






    Acquisitions
    present many risks and we may not realize the financial and
    strategic goals that are contemplated at the time of the
    transaction


 


    With respect to our past acquisitions, as well as any other
    future acquisitions we may undertake, we may find that the
    acquired businesses, products or technologies do not further our
    business strategy as expected, that we paid more than what the
    assets are later worth or that economic conditions change, all
    of which may generate future impairment charges. Our
    acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial
    markets or investors. There may be difficulty integrating the
    operations and personnel of the acquired business, and we may
    have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired
    business. We may have difficulty in integrating the acquired
    technologies or products with our existing product lines. Our
    ongoing business and management’s attention may be
    disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and
    the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse
    locations. We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards,
    controls, procedures and policies across locations. We may
    experience significant problems or liabilities associated with
    product quality, technology and other matters.


 


    Our inability to successfully operate and integrate
    newly-acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a
    timely manner, or to retain key personnel of any acquired
    business, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to
    take advantage of further growth in demand for integrated
    traffic management and security solutions and other advances in
    technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and
    expenses.


 



    Our
    success depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract
    and retain qualified sales and marketing, operations, product
    development and professional services personnel


 


    Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued
    contributions of our key management, product development, sales,
    marketing and finance personnel, many of whom may be difficult
    to replace. The complexity of our application delivery
    networking products and their integration into existing networks
    and ongoing support, as well as the sophistication of our sales
    and marketing effort, requires us to retain highly trained
    professional services, customer support and sales personnel.
    Competition for qualified professional services, customer
    support and sales personnel in our industry is intense because
    of the limited number of people available with the necessary
    technical skills and understanding of our products. Our ability
    to retain and hire these personnel may be adversely affected by
    volatility or reductions in the price of our common stock, since
    these employees are generally granted restricted stock units.
    The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability
    to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or
    delays in hiring qualified personnel may harm our business and
    results of operations.


 



    We
    face litigation risks


 


    We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business.
    Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities
    litigation in particular, can be expensive, lengthy and
    disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results
    of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict.
    Responding to lawsuits has been, and will likely continue to be,
    expensive and time-consuming for us. An unfavorable resolution
    of these lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results
    of operations or financial condition.


 


    Our historical stock option practices and the restatement of our
    prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks
    associated with litigation. Beginning in May 2006 several
    derivative actions were filed against certain current and former
    directors and officers (as discussed further in Part II,
    Item 8, Note 8, “Commitments and
    Contingencies — Litigation”) based on allegations
    relating to our historical stock option practices. We cannot
    assure you that this current litigation will result in the same
    conclusions reached by the special committee of outside
    directors formed by our Board of Directors to conduct a review
    of our stock option practices (the “Special
    Committee”). Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse
    findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay
    damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us
    which could adversely affect our business, results of operations
    or financial condition.




    
    24



Table of Contents






    Anti-takeover
    provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to
    acquire us


 


    Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to
    10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the
    price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions,
    including voting rights, of those shares without any further
    vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of
    common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected
    by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be
    issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have
    the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of
    control of our company without further action by our
    shareholders and may adversely affect the voting and other
    rights of the holders of common stock. Further, certain
    provisions of our bylaws, including a provision limiting the
    ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of
    shareholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect
    of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of
    our company, which could have an adverse effect on the market
    price of our common stock. In addition, our articles of
    incorporation provide for a staggered board, which may make it
    more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of
    Directors. Similarly, state anti-takeover laws in the State of
    Washington related to corporate takeovers may prevent or delay a
    change of control of our company.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B