Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    In addition to the other information in this report, the
    following risk factors should be carefully considered in
    evaluating our company and its business.


 



    Our
    success depends on our timely development of new products and
    features, market acceptance of new product offerings and proper
    management of the timing of the life cycle of our
    products


 


    We expect the application delivery networking and file
    virtualization markets to be characterized by rapid
    technological change, frequent new product introductions,
    changes in customer requirements and evolving industry
    standards. Our continued success depends on our ability to
    identify and develop new products and new features for our
    existing products to meet the demands of these changes, and for
    those products and features to be accepted by our existing and
    target customers. If we are unable to identify, develop, and
    deploy new products and new product features on a timely basis,
    our business and results of operations may be harmed.


 


    The current life cycle of our products is typically 12 to
    24 months. The introduction of new products or product
    enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing
    products, or replace sales of some of our current products,
    thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product
    introduction, and may cause customers to defer purchasing our
    existing products in anticipation of the new products. This
    could harm our operating results by decreasing sales, increasing
    our inventory levels of older products, and exposing us to



    
    17



Table of Contents




    greater risk of product obsolescence. We have also experienced,
    and may in the future experience, delays in developing and
    releasing new products and product enhancements. This has led
    to, and may in the future lead to, delayed sales, increased
    expenses and lower quarterly revenue than anticipated. Also, in
    the development of our products, we have experienced delays in
    the prototyping of our products, which in turn has led to delays
    in product introductions. In addition, complexity and
    difficulties in managing product transitions at the end-of-life
    stage of a product can create excess inventory of components
    associated with the outgoing product that can lead to increased
    expenses. Any or all of the above problems could materially harm
    our business and operating results.


 



    Our
    success depends on sales and continued innovation of our BIG-IP
    product lines


 


    For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, we derived
    approximately 91% of our product revenues, or approximately 68%
    of our total revenues, from sales of our BIG-IP family of
    application delivery networking product lines. We continue to
    expect to derive a significant portion of our net revenues from
    sales of our BIG-IP products in the future. Implementation of
    our strategy depends upon BIG-IP products being able to solve
    critical network availability and performance problems of our
    customers. If BIG-IP products are unable to solve these problems
    for our customers or if we are unable to sustain the high levels
    of innovation in BIG-IP’s product feature set needed to
    maintain leadership in what will continue to be a competitive
    market environment, our business and results of operations will
    be harmed.


 



    We may
    not be able to compete effectively in the emerging application
    delivery networking and file virtualization
    markets


 


    The markets we serve are new, rapidly evolving and highly
    competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify
    in the future. Our principal competitors in the application
    delivery networking market include Cisco Systems, Inc., Nortel
    Networks Corporation, Foundry Networks, Inc., Citrix Systems,
    Inc., Radware Ltd. and Juniper Networks, Inc. In the adjacent
    WAN Optimization market, we compete with Riverbed Technology,
    Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., Packeteer, Inc., Cisco Systems,
    Inc. and Citrix systems, Inc. In the file virtualization market,
    we compete with EMC, Network Appliance, Brocade and Cisco. We
    expect to continue to face additional competition as new
    participants enter our markets. As we continue to expand
    globally, we may see new competitors in different geographic
    regions. In addition, larger companies with significant
    resources, brand recognition, and sales channels may form
    alliances with or acquire competing application delivery
    networking solutions and emerge as significant competitors.
    Potential competitors may bundle their products or incorporate
    an Internet traffic management or security component into
    existing products in a manner that discourages users from
    purchasing our products.


 



    Our
    quarterly and annual operating results are inherently
    unpredictable and may cause our stock price to
    fluctuate


 


    Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied
    significantly in the past and will vary significantly in the
    future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future
    operating results. In particular, we anticipate that the size of
    customer orders may increase as we continue to focus on larger
    business accounts. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even
    from just one account, may have a significant negative impact on
    our results of operations for a given period. In the past, a
    majority of our sales have been realized near the end of a
    quarter. Accordingly, a delay in an anticipated sale past the
    end of a particular quarter may negatively impact our results of
    operations for that quarter, or in some cases, that year.
    Additionally, we have exposure to the credit risks of some of
    our customers and sub-tenants. Although we have programs in
    place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated
    risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be
    effective in reducing our credit risks adequately. We monitor
    individual payment capability in granting credit arrangements,
    seek to limit the total credit to amounts we believe our
    customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate
    to cover exposure for potential losses. If there is a
    deterioration of a sub-tenant’s or major customer’s
    creditworthiness or actual defaults are higher than expected
    future resulting losses, if incurred, could harm our business
    and have a material adverse effect on our operating results.



    
    18



Table of Contents




    Further, our operating results may be below the expectations of
    securities analysts and investors in future quarters or years.
    Our failure to meet these expectations will likely harm the
    market price of our common stock. Such a decline could occur,
    and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly
    stated revenue
    and/or
    earnings guidance.


 



    The
    average selling price of our products may decrease and our costs
    may increase, which may negatively impact gross
    profits


 


    It is possible that the average selling prices of our products
    will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing
    pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions
    by us or our competitors or other factors. Therefore, in order
    to maintain our gross profits, we must develop and introduce new
    products and product enhancements on a timely basis and
    continually reduce our product costs. Our failure to do so will
    cause our net revenue and gross profits to decline, which will
    harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we may
    experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future
    operating results due to the erosion of our average selling
    prices.


 



    It is
    difficult to predict our future operating results because we
    have an unpredictable sales cycle


 


    Our products have a lengthy sales cycle and the timing of our
    revenue is difficult to predict. Historically, our sales cycle
    has ranged from approximately two to three months and has tended
    to lengthen as we have increasingly focused our sales efforts on
    the enterprise market. Also, as our distribution strategy has
    evolved into more of a channel model, utilizing value-added
    resellers, distributors and systems integrators, the level of
    variability in the length of sales cycle across transactions has
    increased and made it more difficult to predict the timing of
    many of our sales transactions. Sales of our products require us
    to educate potential customers in their use and benefits. Sales
    of our products are subject to delays from the lengthy internal
    budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that
    large corporations and governmental entities may require. For
    example, customers frequently begin by evaluating our products
    on a limited basis and devote time and resources to testing our
    products before they decide whether or not to purchase.
    Customers may also defer orders as a result of anticipated
    releases of new products or enhancements by our competitors or
    us. As a result, our products have an unpredictable sales cycle
    that contributes to the uncertainty of our future operating
    results.


 



    Our
    business may be harmed if our contract manufacturers are not
    able to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or if
    a single source of hardware assembly is lost or
    impaired


 


    We rely on third party contract manufacturers to assemble our
    products. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware
    platforms to contract manufacturers who assemble these hardware
    platforms to our specifications. We have experienced minor
    delays in shipments from contract manufacturers in the past.
    However, if we experience major delays in the future or other
    problems, such as inferior quality and insufficient quantity of
    product, any one or a combination of these factors may harm our
    business and results of operations. The inability of our
    contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of
    our products or the loss of our contract manufacturer may cause
    a delay in our ability to fulfill orders while we obtain a
    replacement manufacturer and may harm our business and results
    of operations. In particular, because we subcontract
    substantially all of our manufacturing to a single contract
    manufacturer, with whom we do not have a long-term contract, any
    termination, loss or impairment in our arrangement with this
    single source of hardware assembly, or any impairment of their
    facilities or operations, would harm our business, financial
    condition and results of operation.


 


    If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase
    our raw material and component purchases, contract manufacturing
    capacity and internal test and quality control functions. Any
    disruptions in product flow may limit our revenue, may harm our
    competitive position and may result in additional costs or
    cancellation of orders by our customers.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    Our
    business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays
    in the supply of hardware components from our third-party
    sources


 


    We currently purchase several hardware components used in the
    assembly of our products from a number of single or limited
    sources. Lead times for these components vary significantly. The
    unavailability of suitable components, any interruption or delay
    in the supply of any of these hardware components, or the
    inability to procure a similar component from alternate sources
    at acceptable prices within a reasonable time, may delay
    assembly and sales of our products and, hence, our revenues, and
    may harm our business and results of operations.


 


    We are subject to governmental export and import controls that
    could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete
    in international markets.


 


    Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be
    exported outside the U.S. only with the required level of
    export license or through an export license exception, because
    we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In
    addition, various countries regulate the import of certain
    encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our
    ability to distribute our products or could limit our
    customers’ ability to implement our products in those
    countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and
    import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our
    products in international markets, prevent our customers with
    international operations from deploying our products throughout
    their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or
    import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any
    change in export or import regulations or related legislation,
    shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing
    regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies
    targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of
    our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell
    our products to, existing or potential customers with
    international operations. For example, we will need to comply
    with Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive laws,
    which are being adopted by certain European Economic Area
    countries on a
    country-by-country
    basis. Failure to comply with these and similar laws on a timely
    basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operating results and financial condition. Any
    decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to
    export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our
    business, operating results and financial condition.


 



    We may
    not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and
    our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of
    third parties


 


    We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and
    trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure of
    confidential and proprietary information to protect our
    intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our
    proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or
    otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring
    unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be
    certain that the steps we have taken will prevent
    misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign
    countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights
    as fully as in the United States.


 


    Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number
    of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding
    patent and other intellectual property rights. In the ordinary
    course of our business, we are involved in disputes and
    licensing discussions with others regarding their claimed
    proprietary rights and cannot assure you that we will always
    successfully defend ourselves against such claims. If we are
    found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, or if we
    otherwise settle such claims, we could be compelled to pay
    damages or royalties and either obtain a license to those
    intellectual property rights or alter our products so that they
    no longer infringe upon such proprietary rights. Any license
    could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at
    all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid
    infringing upon the rights of others may be costly or
    impractical. In addition, we have initiated, and may in the
    future initiate, claims or litigation against third parties for
    infringement of our proprietary rights, to determine the scope
    and validity of our proprietary rights or those of our
    competitors. Any of these claims, whether claims that we are
    infringing the proprietary rights of others, or vice versa, with
    or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly
    litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel
    or require us to cease using infringing technology, develop
    non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing
    agreements. Further, our



    
    20



Table of Contents




    license agreements typically require us to indemnify our
    customers, distributors and resellers for infringement actions
    related to our technology, which could cause us to become
    involved in infringement claims made against our customers,
    distributors, or resellers. Any of the above-described
    circumstances relating to intellectual property rights disputes
    could result in our business and results of operations being
    harmed.


 


    Many of our products include intellectual property licensed from
    third parties. In the future, it may be necessary to renew
    licenses for third party intellectual property or obtain new
    licenses for other technology. These third party licenses may
    not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The
    inability to obtain certain licenses, or litigation regarding
    the interpretation or enforcement of license rights and related
    intellectual property issues, could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, operating results and financial
    condition. Furthermore, we license some third party intellectual
    property on a non-exclusive basis and this may limit our ability
    to protect our intellectual property rights in our products.


 



    We may
    not be able to sustain or develop new distribution relationships
    and a reduction or delay in sales to a significant distribution
    partner could hurt our business


 


    Our sales strategy requires that we establish and maintain
    multiple distribution channels in the United States and
    internationally through leading industry resellers, systems
    integrators, Internet service providers and other indirect
    channel partners. We have a limited number of agreements with
    companies in these channels, and we may not be able to increase
    our number of distribution relationships or maintain our
    existing relationships. Recruiting and retaining qualified
    channel partners and training them in our technologies requires
    significant time and resources. If we are unable to establish or
    maintain our indirect sales channels, our business and results
    of operations will be harmed. In addition, two domestic
    distributors of our products together accounted for 24.8% and
    25.2% of our total net revenue for the fiscal years 2007 and
    2006, respectively. A substantial reduction or delay in sales of
    our products to this or any other key distribution partner could
    harm our business, operating results and financial condition.


 



    Undetected
    software or hardware errors may harm our business and results of
    operations


 


    Our products may contain undetected errors or defects when first
    introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced
    these errors or defects in the past in connection with new
    products and product upgrades. We expect that these errors or
    defects will be found from time to time in new or enhanced
    products after commencement of commercial shipments. These
    problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair
    costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from
    our product development efforts and cause significant customer
    relations problems. We may also be subject to liability claims
    for damages related to product errors or defects. While we carry
    insurance policies covering this type of liability, these
    policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be
    asserted. A material product liability claim may harm our
    business and results of operations.


 


    Our products must successfully operate with products from other
    vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may
    be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The
    occurrence of software or hardware problems, whether caused by
    our products or another vendor’s products, may result in
    the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products. The
    occurrence of any of these problems may harm our business and
    results of operations.


 



    Adverse
    economic conditions or reduced information technology spending
    may adversely impact our business.


 


    A substantial portion of our business depends on the demand for
    information technology by large enterprise customers and service
    providers, the overall economic health of our current and
    prospective customers, and the continued growth and evolution of
    the Internet. The purchase of our products is often
    discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of
    capital and other resources. Weak economic conditions, or a
    reduction in information technology spending even if economic
    conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business,
    operating results and financial condition in a number of ways,
    including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and
    services and reduced unit sales.



    
    21



Table of Contents





    Our
    operating results are exposed to risks associated with
    international commerce


 


    As our international sales increase, our operating results
    become more exposed to international operating risks. These
    risks include risks related to potential recessions in economies
    outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates,
    managing foreign sales offices, regulatory, political, or
    economic conditions in specific countries, military conflict or
    terrorist activities, changes in laws and tariffs, inadequate
    protection of intellectual property rights in foreign countries,
    foreign regulatory requirements, and natural disasters. All of
    these factors could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. We intend to continue expanding into international
    markets. International sales represented 41.6% and 42.6% of our
    net revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. In particular, in fiscal year 2007, we
    derived 12.2% of our total revenue from the Japanese market.
    This revenue is dependent on a number of factors outside our
    control, including the viability and success of our resellers
    and the strength of the Japanese economy.


 



    Changes
    in governmental regulations could negatively affect our
    revenues


 


    Our products are subject to various regulations promulgated by
    the United States and various foreign governments including, but
    not limited to, environmental regulations and regulations
    implementing export license requirements and restrictions on the
    import or export of some technologies, especially encryption
    technology. Changes in governmental regulation and our inability
    or failure to obtain required approvals, permits, or
    registrations could harm our international and domestic sales
    and adversely affect our revenues, business and operations.


 



    Acquisitions,
    including our recent acquisition of Acopia Networks, Inc.,
    present many risks and we may not realize the financial and
    strategic goals that are contemplated at the time of the
    transaction


 


    With respect to our past any any future acquisitions, we may
    find that the acquired businesses, products or technologies do
    not further our business strategy as expected, that we paid more
    than what the assets are later worth, or that economic
    conditions change, all of which may generate future impairment
    charges. Our acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers,
    financial markets or investors. There may be difficulty
    integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired
    business, and we may have difficulty retaining the key personnel
    of the acquired business. We may have difficulty in
    incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our
    existing product lines. Our ongoing business and
    management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by
    transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing
    geographically and culturally diverse locations. We may have
    difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures
    and policies across locations. We may experience significant
    problems or liabilities associated with the product quality,
    technology and other matters.


 


    Our inability to successfully operate and integrate
    newly-acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a
    timely manner, or to retain key personnel of any acquired
    business, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to
    take advantage of further growth in demand for integrated
    traffic management and security solutions and other advances in
    technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and
    expenses.


 



    Our
    success depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract
    and retain qualified sales and marketing, operations, product
    development and professional services personnel


 


    Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued
    contributions of our key management, product development, sales,
    marketing and finance personnel, many of whom may be difficult
    to replace. The complexity of our application delivery
    networking products and their integration into existing networks
    and ongoing support, as well as the sophistication of our sales
    and marketing effort, requires us to retain highly trained
    professional services, customer support and sales personnel.
    Competition for qualified professional services, customer
    support and sales personnel in our industry is intense because
    of the limited number of people available with the necessary
    technical skills and understanding of our products. Our ability
    to retain and hire these personnel may be adversely affected by
    volatility or reductions in the price of our common stock, since
    these employees are generally granted restricted stock units or
    stock options. The loss of services



    
    22



Table of Contents




    of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract
    qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified
    personnel, may harm our business and results of operations.


 



    We
    face litigation risks


 


    We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business.
    Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities
    litigation in particular, can be expensive, lengthy and
    disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results
    of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict.
    Responding to lawsuits has been, and will likely continue to be,
    expensive and time-consuming for us. An unfavorable resolution
    of the lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results of
    operations, or financial condition.


 


    Our historical stock option practices and the restatement of our
    prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks
    associated with litigation. Beginning in May 2006 several
    derivative actions were filed against certain current and former
    directors and officers (as discussed further in Item 3
    “Legal Proceedings”) based on allegations relating to
    our historical stock option practices. We cannot assure you that
    this current litigation will result in the same conclusions
    reached by the special committee of outside directors formed by
    our Board of Directors to conduct a review of our stock option
    practices (the “Special Committee”).


 


    We may in the future be subject to additional litigation arising
    in relation to our historical stock option practices and the
    restatement of our prior financial statements. Litigation may be
    time consuming, expensive and distracting for management from
    the conduct of our business. The adverse resolution of any
    lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure
    you that any future litigation relating to our historical stock
    option practices will result in the same conclusions reached by
    the Special Committee. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse
    findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay
    damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us
    which could adversely affect our business, results of
    operations, or financial condition.


 



    The
    matters relating to the Special Committee’s review of our
    historical stock option practices and the restatement of our
    consolidated financial statements has resulted in regulatory
    proceedings against us and may result in future regulatory
    proceedings, which could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition


 


    On November 8, 2006, we announced that the Special
    Committee had completed its review of our historical stock
    option practices. Upon completion of its review, the Special
    Committee found that the recorded grant dates for certain stock
    options granted during fiscal years 1999 to 2004 should be
    adjusted as the measurement date for accounting purposes and the
    accounting treatment used for the vesting of certain stock
    options was incorrect. Based on the Special Committee’s
    review, to correct the accounting treatment, we amended our
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K/A
    (as amended) for the year ended September 30, 2005 and our
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q
    for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and
    March 31, 2006 to restate the consolidated financial
    statements contained in those reports.


 


    We have received notice from both the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”) and the United States
    Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York (the
    “Department of Justice”) that they are conducting
    informal inquiries into our historical stock option practices,
    and we have fully cooperated with both agencies. Considerable
    legal and accounting expenses related to our historical stock
    option practices have already been incurred to date and
    significant expenditures may continue to be incurred in the
    future. We may in the future be subject to additional regulatory
    proceedings or actions arising in relation to our historical
    stock option practices and the restatement of our prior period
    financial statements. Any potential regulatory proceeding or
    action may be time consuming, expensive and distracting for
    management from the conduct of our business. The adverse
    resolution of any potential regulatory proceeding or action
    could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or
    financial condition. We cannot assure you that the SEC and
    Department of Justice inquiries, or any future regulatory action
    relating to our historical stock option practices, will result
    in the same conclusions reached by the Special Committee.
    Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of
    these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties
    or have other remedies imposed



    
    23



Table of Contents




    upon us, including criminal penalties, which could adversely
    affect our business, results of operations, or financial
    condition.


 



    Anti-takeover
    provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to
    acquire us


 


    Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to
    10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the
    price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions,
    including voting rights, of those shares without any further
    vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of
    common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected
    by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be
    issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have
    the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of
    control of our company without further action by our shareholder
    and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the
    holders of common stock. Further, certain provisions of our
    bylaws, including a provision limiting the ability of
    stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders
    without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying
    or preventing changes in control or management of our company,
    which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our
    common stock. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide
    for a staggered board, which may make it more difficult for a
    third party to gain control of our board of directors.
    Similarly, state anti-takeover laws in the State of Washington
    related to corporate takeovers may prevent or delay a change of
    control of our company.






 



    Item 1B