Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to
    significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed
    below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant
    adverse effect on our results of operation and financial
    condition.


 



    If we
    fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the
    marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology
    are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty
    attracting new customers for our services.


 


    The markets for our services are characterized by constant
    technological changes, frequent introductions of new services
    and evolving industry standards. Our future success will be
    significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current
    services, and develop and introduce new services that address
    the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their
    clients. These initiatives carry the risks associated with any
    new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays
    in delivery, and performance issues. There can be no assurance
    that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling
    new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not
    experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the
    successful development, introduction, and marketing of these
    services, or that our new services and their enhancements will
    adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve
    market acceptance.


 



    We
    operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are
    unable to compete effectively our results of operations and
    financial condition may be adversely affected.


 


    The market for our services is intensely competitive. Our
    competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the
    services they offer. Some of our competitors have substantial
    resources. We face direct competition from third parties, and
    since many of our larger potential customers have historically
    developed their key applications in-house and therefore view
    their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we
    often compete against our potential customers’ in-house
    capacities. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we
    compete will continue to attract new competitors and new
    technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    compete successfully against current or future competitors or
    that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we
    operate will not materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Our
    substantial leverage and debt service requirements may adversely
    affect our financial and operational flexibility.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had total debt of approximately
    $4.3 billion. This high level of debt could have important
    consequences to us, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the debt level makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns
    and adverse developments in our business, may cause us to have
    difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital,
    capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes and limits
    our ability to pursue other business opportunities and implement
    certain business strategies;




 



     
        • 

    
    we need to use a large portion of the money we earn to pay
    principal and interest on our senior credit facilities, which
    reduces the amount of money available to finance operations,
    acquisitions and other business activities, repay other
    indebtedness and pay shareholder dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    some of the debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes
    us to the risk of increased interest rates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    we have a higher level of debt than certain of our competitors,
    which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce
    flexibility in responding to changing business and economic
    conditions, including increased competition.





 


    In addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities may
    restrict us from taking actions, such as making significant
    acquisitions or dispositions or entering into certain
    agreements, which we might believe to be advantageous to us.


 



    If we
    are unable to successfully consummate and integrate
    acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    As part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous
    acquisitions in recent years. We anticipate that we will
    continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses and
    services. This strategy will depend on the ability to find
    suitable acquisitions and finance them on acceptable terms. We
    may require additional debt or equity financing for future
    acquisitions, and doing so will be made more difficult by our
    substantial debt. If we are unable to acquire suitable
    acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth.


 


    Further, even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we will
    face challenges in integrating any acquired business. These
    challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities
    and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining
    key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and
    achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. There
    can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all
    aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the
    potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of
    integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and
    divert our resources.


 



    Consolidation
    in the banking and financial services industry could adversely
    affect our revenues by eliminating some of our existing and
    potential customers and could make us more dependent on a more
    limited number of customers.


 


    There has been and continues to be substantial merger,
    acquisition and consolidation activity in the banking and
    financial services industry. Mergers or consolidations of banks
    and financial institutions in the future could reduce the number
    of our customers and potential customers, which could adversely
    affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the
    aggregate number of customers or the banking and other
    activities of the consolidated entities. If our customers merge
    with or are acquired by other entities that are not our
    customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may
    discontinue or reduce their use of our services. In addition, it
    is possible that the larger banks or financial institutions
    resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform
    in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide
    or could provide. Any of these developments could have a
    material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Demand
    for many of our services is sensitive to the level of consumer
    transactions generated by our customers, and accordingly, our
    revenues could be impacted negatively by a general economic
    slowdown or any other event causing a material slowing of
    consumer spending.


 


    A significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction
    processing fees. Any changes in economic factors that adversely
    affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a
    reduction in check writing or credit and debit card usage, could
    reduce the volume of transactions that we process, and have an
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Potential
    customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may
    adversely affect our growth, both in the U.S. and
    internationally.


 


    For banks and other potential customers of our financial
    information software and services, switching from one vendor of
    bank core processing or related software and services (or from
    an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant
    undertaking. Many potential customers worry about potential
    disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality,
    increased costs and business disruption. As a result, potential
    customers, both in the U.S. and internationally, often
    resist change. We seek to overcome this resistance through
    strategies such as making investments to enhance the
    functionality of our software. However, there can be no
    assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential
    customers’ reluctance to change vendors will be successful,
    and this resistance may adversely affect our growth, both in the
    U.S. and internationally.


 



    Decreased
    lending and real estate activity may reduce demand for certain
    of our services and adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 


    Real estate sales are affected by a number of factors, including
    mortgage interest rates, the availability of funds to finance
    purchases, the level of home prices and general economic
    conditions. The volume of refinancing transactions in particular
    and mortgage originations in general declined in 2005, 2006 and
    2007 from 2004 levels, resulting in reduction of revenues in
    some of our businesses. The current MBA forecast is for $2.0
    trillion of mortgage originations in 2008 compared to $2.3
    trillion in 2007. Our revenues in future periods will continue
    to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our
    control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate.


 


    Further, in the event that levels of home ownership were to
    decline or other factors were to reduce the aggregate number of
    U.S. mortgage loans, our revenues from mortgage processing
    and related services could be adversely affected.


 



    We
    could have conflicts with FNF, and the executive chairman of our
    board of directors and other officers and directors could have
    conflicts of interest due to their relationships with
    FNF.


 


    Conflicts may arise between FNF and us as a result of our
    ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses.
    Among other things, we and certain of our subsidiaries are
    parties to a variety of related party agreements with FNF.
    Certain of our executive officers and directors will be subject
    to conflicts of interest with respect to such related party
    agreements and other matters due to their relationships with FNF.


 


    Some of the FNF executive officers and directors who became
    executive officers and directors of our company in connection
    with the FNF Merger, including William P. Foley, II and
    Brent B. Bickett, own substantial amounts of FNF stock and stock
    options because of their relationships with FNF and Old FNF
    prior to the FNF Merger. Such ownership could create or appear
    to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and
    officers are faced with decisions that involve FNF or any of its
    respective subsidiaries.


 


    Mr. Foley, who became our Executive Chairman in connection
    with the FNF Merger, is currently the Chairman of the board of
    directors of FNF. Mr. Bickett also became an officer of our
    company and FNF. As a result, each of these individuals has
    obligations to us as well as to FNF and will have conflicts of
    interest with respect to matters potentially or actually
    involving or affecting us and FNF.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Matters that could give rise to conflicts between us and FNF
    include, among other things.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our past and ongoing relationships with FNF, including related
    party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the
    administration of tax matters, employee benefits,
    indemnification, and other matters;




 



     
        • 

    
    the quality and pricing of services that we have agreed to
    provide to FNF or that it has agreed to provide to us; and




 



     
        • 

    
    business opportunities arising for either us or FNF, that could
    be pursued by either us or by FNF.





 


    We will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute
    resolution and other provisions of our agreements with FNF and
    through oversight by independent members of our board of
    directors. However, there can be no assurance that such measures
    will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all
    potential conflicts with FNF, or that the resolution of any such
    conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were
    dealing with an unaffiliated third party.


 



    We may
    lack adequate oversight since the chairman of the board of
    directors of FNF is also our executive chairman.


 


    Mr. Foley is executive chairman of our board of directors.
    Mr. Foley is also the chairman of the board of directors of
    FNF. As a result of his roles, he has obligations to us as well
    as FNF and may have conflicts of time with respect to matters
    potentially or actually involving or affecting us. As executive
    chairman, it is expected that Mr. Foley will devote no more
    than one-half of his time to matters relating to us. If
    Mr. Foley’s duties as executive chairman of our board
    of directors require more time than he is able to allot, then
    his oversight of the activities of our company could be
    diminished and the effective management of our company could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Our
    revenues from the sale of services to the VISA and MasterCard
    organizations are dependent upon our continued VISA and
    MasterCard certification and financial institution sponsorship,
    and the loss or suspension of this certification or sponsorship
    could adversely affect our business.


 


    In order to provide our card services, we must be designated a
    certified processor by, and be a member service provider of,
    MasterCard and be designated as an independent sales
    organization of VISA. These designations are dependent upon our
    continuing adherence to the standards of the VISA and MasterCard
    associations. The member financial institutions of VISA and
    MasterCard, some of which are our competitors, set the standards
    with which we must comply. If we fail to comply with these
    standards, our designation as a certified processor, as a member
    service provider, or as an independent sales organization could
    be suspended or terminated. The termination of our member
    service provider status or our status as a certified processor,
    or any changes in the VISA and MasterCard rules that prevent our
    registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide
    transaction processing and marketing services for the VISA or
    MasterCard organizations, would result in the loss of business
    from VISA or MasterCard issuing customers, and lead to a
    reduction in our revenues, which in turn could have a material
    adverse effect on our business.


 



    We
    have a long sales cycle for many of our applications and if we
    fail to close sales after expending significant time and
    resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and
    results of operations may be adversely affected.


 


    The implementation of many of our applications often involves
    significant capital commitments by our customers, particularly
    those with smaller operational scale. Potential customers
    generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of
    available software and require us to expend substantial time,
    effort, and money educating them as to the value of our software
    and services. We incur substantial costs in order to obtain each
    new customer. We may expend significant funds and management
    resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close
    the sale. Our sales cycle may be extended due to our
    customers’ budgetary constraints or for other reasons. If
    we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant
    funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    In the
    wake of the current mortgage crisis, there could be adverse
    regulatory consequences or litigation that could affect
    us.


 


    Various aspects of our businesses are subject to federal, state
    and foreign regulation. The sharp rise in home foreclosures that
    started in the United States during the fall of 2006 and has
    accelerated in 2007 and 2008 has begun to result in
    investigations and lawsuits against various parties commenced by
    various governmental authorities and third parties. It has also
    resulted in governmental review of aspects of the mortgage
    lending business, which may lead to greater regulation in areas
    such as appraisals, default management, loan closings and
    regulatory reporting. Such actions and proceedings could have
    consequences that could adversely affect our business.


 



    Completion
    of the spin-off is subject to various risks.


 


    On October 25, 2007, we announced our intention to pursue
    the spin-off of the businesses that primarily comprise our LPS
    operations. There is no guarantee the proposed spin-off will be
    finalized. Completion of the spin-off is subject to a number of
    specific factors and conditions, as well as to the discretion of
    our board of directors which may be influenced by market
    conditions or other factors. For example, it is a condition to
    completing the spin-off that we receive a private letter ruling
    from the IRS and an opinion of our special tax adviser, together
    to the effect that, for United States Federal income tax
    purposes, the following transactions will qualify as tax-free
    transactions to us, the spun-off entity, and our stockholders:
    (i) the contribution of all of our interest in the assets,
    liabilities, businesses and employees related to our LPS
    operations in exchange for the receipt by us of LPS, Inc. common
    stock and LPS, Inc. debt obligations (the
    “contribution”); (ii) the expected exchange by us
    of the LPS, Inc. debt obligations for certain of our outstanding
    debt (the “debt exchange”); and (iii) the
    distribution of LPS, Inc. common stock to our stockholders,
    except that any gain that our stockholders realize on cash
    received in lieu of any fractional shares of LPS, Inc. common
    stock to which such stockholders may be entitled in the
    distribution generally will be taxable to the stockholders. The
    proposed spin-off is also subject to the SEC having declared
    effective the registration statement for the new shares and the
    listing of LPS, Inc. common stock on the NYSE having been
    approved, among other conditions.


 


    If the spin-off is not completed, we will have incurred costs
    without any corresponding benefit. Further, our management will
    have spent time executing the plan which may be a distraction
    from its day to day activities.


 



    We
    and/or LPS may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits
    that we expect will be achieved from the spin-off.


 


    We and LPS, Inc. may not be able to achieve the full strategic
    and financial benefits we expect will result from the spin-off
    or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. These
    outcomes may occur due to, among other things, the leverage to
    be incurred by LPS, Inc. in connection with the spin-off, the
    loss of synergies, excess costs the two companies will incur as
    stand-alone entities, or the obligations imposed on LPS, Inc.
    and us to avoid certain transactions in respect of our capital
    stock in order to preserve the planned tax-free nature of the
    transactions.


 


    Finally, notwithstanding our receipt of the IRS private letter
    ruling and opinion of our special tax adviser, the IRS could
    determine that the contribution, debt exchange
    and/or
    spin-off should be treated as taxable transactions if it
    determines that there was a misstatement or omission of any of
    the facts, representations, or undertakings that were included
    in the request for the private letter ruling, or if it disagrees
    with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the
    IRS ruling. In such case, we and our shareholders could be
    subject to significant tax liabilities.


 



    If Old
    FNF’s 2006 spin-off of FNF does not constitute a tax free
    distribution under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue
    Code or if our merger with Old FNF does not constitute a tax
    free reorganization under Section 368(a), then we may
    suffer losses resulting from payment of taxes and tax-related
    losses.


 


    Under a tax disaffiliation agreement, which we were required to
    enter into with Old FNF and FNF as a condition to the closing
    under our merger agreement with Old FNF, FNF is required to
    indemnify us for taxes and tax-related losses (including
    stockholder suits) if Old FNF’s 2006 spin-off of FNF (the
    “2006 Distribution”) were determined to be taxable
    either to Old FNF (and us as its successor) or the FNF
    stockholders or both, unless such adverse determination were the
    result of a breach by us of our agreement not to take any action
    within our control that would cause the 2006 Distribution to be
    taxable or the result of an acquisition of FIS stock within the
    control of



    
    15



Table of Contents




    us or a subsidiary. In such an event, Old FNF estimated that the
    amount of tax on the transfer of FNF’s stock in the
    distribution could be in the range of $150 million and
    possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of
    FNF’s stock at the time of the 2006 Distribution. In
    addition, FNF is required under the tax disaffiliation agreement
    to indemnify Old FNF (and us as its successor) for taxes and
    tax-related losses (including stockholder suits) in the event
    the Old FNF-FIS merger were determined to be taxable. Old FNF
    estimated that the amount of tax on Old FNF’s transfer and
    retirement of its FIS stock in the merger could be in the range
    of $1 billion and possibly greater depending on, among
    other things, the value of our stock at the time of the merger.


 


    Even if the 2006 Distribution otherwise qualifies as a spin-off
    under Section 355 of the Code, the distribution of FNF
    common stock to the Old FNF stockholders in connection with the
    2006 Distribution would not qualify as tax-free to Old FNF (or
    us as its successor) under Section 355(e) of the Code if
    50% or more of the stock of Old FNF (including us as successor
    to Old FNF) or FNF is acquired as part of a plan or series of
    related transactions that includes the 2006 Distribution. As a
    result of our merger with Old FNF, approximately 49% of our
    stock would be treated as having been acquired pursuant to a
    plan that includes the 2006 Distribution for purposes of
    Section 355(e) of the Code.


 


    There is no guaranty that FNF will have financial resources to
    satisfy any such indemnification obligation described above. If
    the tax-free status is lost because of any action taken by us or
    any of our subsidiaries after the time of the 2006 Distribution
    (except for certain actions specifically identified in the tax
    disaffiliation agreement), we would be required to pay the taxes
    described above ourself and would be required to indemnify FNF
    for all tax-related losses.


 



    We may
    be affected by significant restrictions following the FNF Merger
    with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the
    tax-free status of the spin-off by Old FNF of Fidelity National
    Title Group or the FNF Merger.


 


    In order to preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off by
    Old FNF of Fidelity National Title Group, a tax
    disaffiliation agreement entered into by FNF and us prior to the
    closing under the FNF Merger agreement restricts us, for two
    years after the spin-off, from taking certain actions within our
    control that could cause the spin-off to be taxable without
    first obtaining a consent of certain officers of FNF or
    obtaining an opinion from a nationally recognized law firm or
    accounting firm that such action will not cause the spin-off to
    be taxable to FNF under Section 355(e) of the Code. In
    general, such actions would include engaging in certain
    transactions involving (i) the acquisition of our stock or
    (ii) the issuance of shares of our stock.


 


    Because of these restrictions, we may be limited in the amount
    of stock that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise
    additional capital in the two years subsequent to the spin-off
    and the FNF Merger and in our ability to repurchase shares of
    our common stock.


 



    We may
    experience software defects, development delays, and
    installation difficulties, which would harm our business and
    reputation and expose us to potential liability.


 


    Many of our services are based on sophisticated software and
    computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing
    new applications and services. Further, the software underlying
    our services has occasionally contained and may in the future
    contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or
    when new versions are released. In addition, we may experience
    difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on
    platforms used by our customers. Defects in our software,
    errors, or delays in the processing of electronic transactions,
    or other difficulties could result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    interruption of business operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    late delivery to the market;




 



     
        • 

    
    delay in market acceptance;




 



     
        • 

    
    additional development and remediation costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    diversion of technical and other resources;






    
    16



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    loss of customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    impact on growth expectations;




 



     
        • 

    
    negative publicity; or




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to liability claims.





 


    Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through
    disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our
    license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these
    measures will be successful in limiting our liability.


 



    Security
    breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by
    disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our
    reputation.


 


    As part of our business, we electronically receive, process,
    store, and transmit sensitive business information of our
    customers. In addition, we collect personal consumer data, such
    as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver’s
    license numbers, checking and savings account numbers, and
    payment history records. Unauthorized access to our computer
    systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of
    confidential information or the deletion or modification of
    records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our
    operations. These concerns about security are increased when we
    transmit information over the Internet. Computer viruses have
    also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet.
    Computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our
    delivery of services and making our applications unavailable.
    Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses
    could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our
    systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could
    inhibit our ability to attract new customers.


 



    Many
    of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to
    industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the
    number of transactions in which our customers engage and
    therefore reduces our revenues.


 


    Our customers are subject to a number of government regulations
    and industry standards with which our services must comply. For
    example, our services are affected by VISA and MasterCard
    electronic payment standards that are generally updated twice
    annually. In addition, action by regulatory authorities relating
    to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related
    regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our
    customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    If we
    fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of
    services to financial institutions, our business could be
    harmed.


 


    As a provider of services to financial institutions, we are
    bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information
    we receive from our customers as apply to the financial
    institutions themselves. If we fail to comply with these
    regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract
    or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and
    reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our
    ability to obtain new customers. In addition, if more
    restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on
    the federal or state level, or, with respect to our
    international operations, by authorities in foreign
    jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state, or other
    level, that could have an adverse impact on us.


 



    If we
    experience system failures, the services we provide to our
    customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our
    business and reputation and result in the loss of
    customers.


 


    Our ability to provide reliable service in a number of our
    businesses depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations
    of our computer network systems and data centers. Our systems
    and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from
    fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure,
    unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. Although we have taken
    steps to prevent system failures, we cannot be certain that our
    measures



    
    17



Table of Contents




    will be successful. Further, our property and business
    interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for
    all losses or failures that may occur. Any significant
    interruptions could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increase our operating expenses to correct problems caused by
    the interruption;




 



     
        • 

    
    harm our business and reputation;




 



     
        • 

    
    result in a loss of customers; or




 



     
        • 

    
    expose us to liability.





 


    Any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    and results of operations.


 



    We
    face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have
    guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer’s
    bank.


 


    If a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check
    writer’s bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for
    the check’s face value and pursue collection of the amount
    from the delinquent check writer. In some cases, we recognize a
    liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns
    and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from
    the check writers, based on historical experience and other
    relevant factors. The estimated check returns and recovery
    amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may
    exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less
    than our estimates.


 



    Misappropriation
    of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair
    our competitive position.


 


    Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and
    technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary
    rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our
    services or to obtain and use information that we regard as
    proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights
    is difficult. We cannot make any assurances that the steps we
    have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that
    the agreements entered into for that purpose will be
    enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and
    trade secret protection may not be available in every country in
    which our applications and services are made available online.
    Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential
    litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations or financial condition.


 



    If our
    applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary
    rights of others, we may be required to change our business
    practices and may also become subject to significant costs and
    monetary penalties.


 


    As our information technology applications and services develop,
    we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any
    claims, whether with or without merit, could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    be expensive and time-consuming to defend;




 



     
        • 

    
    cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that
    incorporate the challenged intellectual property;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to redesign our applications, if feasible;




 



     
        • 

    
    divert management’s attention and resources; and




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in
    order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies.





 



    We may
    not succeed with our current and future expansion of our
    international operations and such failure may adversely affect
    our growth and results of operations.


 


    In 2007, sales outside of the U.S. represented
    approximately 11.2% of our revenues. We believe there are
    additional opportunities to expand our international operations,
    and we expect to commit significant resources to



    
    18



Table of Contents




    expand our international sales and marketing activities.
    However, overall we are less well-known internationally than in
    the United States and have less experience with local business
    conditions. In addition, we will face challenges in successfully
    managing small operations located far from our headquarters,
    because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding
    operations from a distance, and we will be increasingly subject
    to a number of other risks and potential costs, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    political and economic instability;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and policy, the
    adoption of laws detrimental to our operations such as
    legislation relating to the collection of personal data over the
    Internet or the adoption of laws, regulations, or treaties
    governing the export of encryption related software;




 



     
        • 

    
    the burdens of complying with a wide variety of other laws and
    regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to adequately manage currency exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting
    receivables in some foreign legal systems; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions in international markets.





 


    There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete
    successfully against current or future international competitors.


 



    Misappropriation
    of consumer data by a former employee could materially adversely
    affect our relationship with governing organizations, customers
    or regulators.


 


    On July 3, 2007, we announced that a database administrator
    had misappropriated consumer information. To date, we have seen
    no evidence of the stolen information being used for anything
    other than marketing purposes. Nevertheless, multiple putative
    class action lawsuits were filed against us seeking monetary
    damages. Those class actions were settled in January of 2008,
    and the settlement received preliminary approval from the court
    in February of 2008. Although we do not believe that we face any
    material liability, there can be no assurance that this matter
    will not result in fines or other charges or adversely impact
    our relationships with the VISA and MasterCard issuing
    organizations, customers or regulators.


 



    Statement
    Regarding Forward-Looking Information


 


    The statements contained in this
    Form 10-K
    or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other
    statements made by our management that are not purely historical
    are forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    including statements regarding our expectations, hopes,
    intentions, or strategies regarding the future. These statements
    relate to, among other things, our future financial and
    operating results. In many cases, you can identify
    forward-looking statements by terminology such as
    “may,” “will,” “should,”
    “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,”
    “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,”
    “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative
    of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results
    could differ materially from those anticipated in these
    statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but
    not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general political, economic, and business conditions, including
    the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts
    of terrorism, and general volatility in the capital markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in
    the marketplace;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidation in the mortgage lending or banking industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    security breaches of our systems and computer viruses affecting
    our software;




 



     
        • 

    
    a decrease in the volume of real estate transactions such as
    real estate sales and mortgage refinancings, which can be caused
    by high or increasing interest rates, a shortage of mortgage
    funding, or a weak United States economy;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact of competitive services and pricing;






    
    19



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and the
    ability to finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the
    availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of
    acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock
    price;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to integrate any acquired business’ operations,
    services, clients, and personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of our substantial leverage, which may limit the
    funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in, or the failure to comply with, government
    regulations, including privacy regulations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other risks detailed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section and
    in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.





 


    We are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such
    obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements,
    whether as a result of new information, future events or
    otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that
    actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking
    statements.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B