Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to
    significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed
    below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant
    adverse effect on our results of operation and financial
    condition.


 



    If we
    fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the
    marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology
    are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty
    attracting new customers for our products and
    services.


 


    The markets for our services are characterized by constant
    technological changes, frequent introductions of new services
    and evolving industry standards. Our future success will be
    significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current
    products and services, and develop and introduce new products
    and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs
    of our customers and their clients. These initiatives carry the
    risks associated with any new product or service development
    effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and
    performance issues. There can be no assurance that we will be
    successful in developing, marketing and selling new products and
    services that meet these changing demands, that we will not
    experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the
    successful development, introduction, and marketing of these
    products and services, or that our new products and services and
    their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the
    marketplace and achieve market acceptance.


 



    We
    operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are
    unable to compete effectively our results of operations and
    financial condition may be adversely affected.


 


    The market for our services is intensely competitive. Our
    competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the
    services they offer. Some of our competitors have substantial
    resources. We face direct competition from third parties, and
    since many of our larger potential customers have historically
    developed their key applications in-house and therefore view
    their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we
    often compete against our potential customers’ in-house
    capacities. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we
    compete will continue to attract new competitors and new
    technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    compete successfully against current or future competitors or
    that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we
    operate will not materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    Our
    substantial leverage and debt service requirements may adversely
    affect our financial and operational flexibility.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we had total debt of approximately
    $3.0 billion. This high level of debt could have important
    consequences to us, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the debt level makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns
    and adverse developments in our business, may cause us to have
    difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital,
    capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes and will
    limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities and
    implement certain business strategies;



 


     
        • 

    
    we need to use a large portion of the money we earn to pay
    principal and interest on our senior credit facilities, which
    reduces the amount of money available to finance operations,
    acquisitions and other business activities, repay other
    indebtedness and pay shareholder dividends;



 


     
        • 

    
    some of the debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes
    us to the risk of increased interest rates; and



 


     
        • 

    
    we have a higher level of debt than certain of our competitors,
    which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce
    flexibility in responding to changing business and economic
    conditions, including increased competition.





 


    In addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities may
    restrict us from taking actions, such as making significant
    acquisitions or dispositions or entering into certain agreements
    that we might believe to be advantageous to us.



    
    11



Table of Contents



 



    If we
    are unable to successfully consummate and integrate
    acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    As part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous
    acquisitions in recent years. We anticipate that we will
    continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products
    and services. This strategy will depend on the ability to find
    suitable acquisitions and finance them on acceptable terms. We
    may require additional debt or equity financing for future
    acquisitions, and doing so will be made more difficult by our
    substantial debt. If we are unable to acquire suitable
    acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth.


 


    Further, even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we will
    face challenges in integrating any acquired business. These
    challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities
    and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining
    key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and
    achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. There
    can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all
    aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the
    potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of
    integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and
    divert our resources.


 



    Consolidation
    in the banking and financial services industry could adversely
    affect our revenues by
    eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and
    could make us more dependent on a more limited number of
    customers.


 


    There has been and continues to be substantial merger,
    acquisition and consolidation activity in the banking and
    financial services industry. Mergers or consolidations of banks
    and financial institutions in the future could reduce the number
    of our customers and potential customers, which could adversely
    affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the
    aggregate number of customers or the banking and other
    activities of the consolidated entities. If our customers merge
    with or are acquired by other entities that are not our
    customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may
    discontinue or reduce their use of our services. In addition, it
    is possible that the larger banks or financial institutions
    resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform
    in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide
    or could provide. Any of these developments could have a
    material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.


 



    Demand
    for many of our products and services is sensitive to the level
    of consumer transactions
    generated by our customers, and accordingly, our revenues could
    be impacted negatively by a general economic slowdown or any
    other event causing a material slowing of consumer
    spending.


 


    A significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction
    processing fees. Any changes in economic factors that adversely
    affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a
    reduction in check writing or credit and debit card usage, could
    reduce the volume of transactions that we process, and have an
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Potential
    customers of our financial information software and services
    business may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may
    adversely affect our growth, both in the U.S. and
    internationally.


 


    For banks and other potential customers of our financial
    information software and services segment, switching from one
    vendor of bank core processing or related software and services
    (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a
    significant undertaking. Many potential customers worry about
    potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed
    functionality, increased costs and business disruption. As a
    result, potential customers, both in the U.S. and
    internationally, often resist change. We seek to overcome this
    resistance through strategies such as making investments to
    enhance the functionality of our software. However, there can be
    no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential
    customers’ reluctance to change vendors will be successful,
    and this resistance may adversely affect our growth, both in the
    U.S. and internationally.


 



    Decreased
    lending and real estate activity may reduce demand for certain
    of our services and adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 


    Revenues from our information services and lender services
    operations are closely related to the general level of real
    estate transactions, such as real estate sales and mortgage
    refinancings. Real estate sales are affected by a



    
    12



Table of Contents




    number of factors, including mortgage interest rates, the
    availability of funds to finance purchases and general economic
    conditions. The volume of refinancing transactions in particular
    and mortgage originations in general declined in 2004, 2005 and
    2006 from 2003 levels, resulting in reduction of revenues in
    some of our businesses. In addition, rising mortgage delinquency
    and default rates have negatively impacted some of our mortgage
    lending customers, particularly within the subprime lending
    market. These trends appear likely to continue. Our revenues in
    future periods will continue to be subject to these and other
    factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are
    likely to fluctuate.


 



    We
    could have conflicts with FNF, and the executive chairman of our
    board of directors and other
    officers and directors could have conflicts of interest due to
    their relationships with FNF.


 


    Conflicts may arise between FNF and us as a result of our
    ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses.
    Among other things, we and certain of our subsidiaries are
    parties to a variety of intercompany agreements with FNF.
    Certain of our executive officers and directors will be subject
    to conflicts of interest with respect to such intercompany
    agreements and other matters due to their relationships with FNF.


 


    Some of the FNF executive officers and directors who became
    executive officers and directors of our company in connection
    with the FNF Merger, including William P. Foley, II, Alan
    L. Stinson and Brent B. Bickett, own substantial amounts of FNF
    stock and stock options because of their relationships with FNF
    and Old FNF prior to the FNF Merger. Such ownership could create
    or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our
    directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve FNF
    or any of its respective subsidiaries.


 


    Mr. Foley, who became our Executive Chairman in connection
    with the FNF Merger, is currently the Chief Executive Officer
    and Chairman of the board of directors of FNF. Mr. Stinson
    and Mr. Bickett also became officers of our company and
    FNF. As a result, each of these individuals has obligations to
    us as well as to FNF and will have conflicts of interest with
    respect to matters potentially or actually involving or
    affecting us and FNF.


 


    Matters that could give rise to conflicts between us and FNF
    include, among other things.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our past and ongoing relationships with FNF, including
    intercompany agreements and other arrangements with respect to
    the administration of tax matters, employee benefits,
    indemnification, and other matters;



 


     
        • 

    
    the quality and pricing of services that we have agreed to
    provide to FNF or that it has agreed to provide to us; and



 


     
        • 

    
    business opportunities arising for either us or FNF, that could
    be pursued by either us or by FNF.





 


    We will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute
    resolution and other provisions of our agreements with FNF and
    through oversight by independent members of our board of
    directors. However, there can be no assurance that such measures
    will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all
    potential conflicts with FNF, or that the resolution of any such
    conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were
    dealing with an unaffiliated third party.


 



    We may
    lack adequate oversight since the chairman of the board of
    directors and chief executive officer of FNF is also our
    executive chairman.


 


    Mr. Foley is executive chairman of our board of directors.
    Mr. Foley is also the chairman of the board of directors
    and chief executive officer of FNF. As a result of his roles, he
    has obligations to us as well as FNF and may have conflicts of
    time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving
    or affecting us. As executive chairman, it is expected that
    Mr. Foley will devote no more than one-half of his time to
    matters relating to us. If Mr. Foley’s duties as
    executive chairman of our board of directors require more time
    than he is able to allot, then his oversight of the activities
    of our company could be diminished and the effective management
    of our company could be adversely affected.



    
    13



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    revenues from the sale of services to VISA and MasterCard
    organizations are dependent upon our continued VISA and
    MasterCard certification and financial institution sponsorship,
    and the loss or
    suspension of this certification or sponsorship could adversely
    affect our business.


 


    In order to provide our card services, we must be designated a
    certified processor by, and be a member service provider of,
    MasterCard and be designated as an independent sales
    organization of VISA. These designations are dependent upon our
    continuing adherence to the standards of the VISA and MasterCard
    associations. The member financial institutions of VISA and
    MasterCard, some of which are our competitors, set the standards
    with which we must comply. If we fail to comply with these
    standards, our designation as a certified processor, as a member
    service provider, or as an independent sales organization could
    be suspended or terminated. The termination of our member
    service provider status or our status as a certified processor,
    or any changes in the VISA and MasterCard rules that prevent our
    registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide
    transaction processing and marketing services for the VISA or
    MasterCard organizations would result in the loss of business
    from VISA or MasterCard issuing customers, and lead to a
    reduction in our revenues, which would have a material adverse
    effect on our business.


 



    We
    have a long sales cycle for many of our applications and if we
    fail to close sales after expending
    significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    The implementation of many of our applications often involves
    significant capital commitments by our customers, particularly
    those with smaller operational scale. Potential customers
    generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of
    available software and require us to expend substantial time,
    effort, and money educating them as to the value of our software
    and services. We incur substantial costs in order to obtain each
    new customer. We may expend significant funds and management
    resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close
    the sale. Our sales cycle may be extended due to our
    customers’ budgetary constraints or for other reasons. If
    we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant
    funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations.


 



    If Old
    FNF’s 2006 spin-off of FNF does not constitute a tax free
    distribution under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue
    Code or if our merger with Old FNF does not constitute a tax
    free reorganization under Section 368(a), then we may suffer
    losses resulting from payment of taxes and tax-related
    losses.


 


    Under a tax disaffiliation agreement, which we were required to
    enter into with Old FNF and FNF as a condition to the closing
    under our merger agreement with Old FNF, FNF is required to
    indemnify us for taxes and tax-related losses (including
    stockholder suits) if Old FNF’s 2006 spin-off of FNF (the
    “2006 Distribution”) were determined to be taxable
    either to Old FNF (and us as its successor) or the FNF
    stockholders or both, unless such adverse determination were the
    result of a breach by us of our agreement not to take any action
    within our control that would cause the 2006 Distribution to be
    taxable or the result of an acquisition of FIS stock within the
    control of us or a subsidiary. In such an event, Old FNF
    estimated that the amount of tax on the transfer of FNF’s
    stock in the distribution could be in the range of
    $150 million and possibly greater depending on, among other
    things, the value of FNF’s stock at the time of the 2006
    Distribution. In addition, FNF is required under the tax
    disaffiliation agreement to indemnify Old FNF (and us as its
    successor) for taxes and tax-related losses (including
    stockholder suits) in the event the Old FNF-FIS merger were
    determined to be taxable. Old FNF estimated that the amount of
    tax on Old FNF’s transfer and retirement of its FIS stock
    in the merger could be in the range of $1 billion and
    possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of
    our stock at the time of the merger.


 


    Even if the 2006 Distribution otherwise qualifies as a spin-off
    under Section 355 of the Code, the distribution of FNF
    common stock to the Old FNF stockholders in connection with the
    2006 Distribution would not qualify as tax-free to Old FNF (or
    us as its successor) under Section 355(e) of the Code if
    50% or more of the stock of Old FNF (including us as successor
    to Old FNF) or FNF is acquired as part of a plan or series of
    related transactions that includes the 2006 Distribution. As a
    result of our merger with Old FNF, approximately 49% of our
    stock would be treated as having been acquired pursuant to a
    plan that includes the 2006 Distribution for purposes of
    Section 355(e) of the Code.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    There is no guaranty that FNF will have financial resources to
    satisfy any such indemnification obligation described above. If
    the tax-free status is lost because of any action taken by us or
    any of our subsidiaries after the time of the 2006 Distribution
    (except for certain actions specifically identified in the tax
    disaffiliation agreement), we would be required to pay the taxes
    described above ourself and would be required to indemnify FNF
    for all tax-related losses.


 



    We may
    be affected by significant restrictions following the FNF Merger
    with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the
    tax-free status of the spin-off by Old FNF of Fidelity National
    Title Group or the FNF Merger.


 


    In order to preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off by
    Old FNF of Fidelity National Title Group, a tax disaffiliation
    agreement entered into by FNF and us prior to the closing under
    the FNF Merger agreement restricts us, for two years after the
    spin-off, from taking certain actions within our control that
    could cause the spin-off to be taxable without first obtaining a
    consent of certain officers of FNF or obtaining an opinion from
    a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm that such
    action will not cause the spin-off to be taxable to FNF under
    Section 355(e) of the Code. In general, such actions would
    include engaging in certain transactions involving (i) the
    acquisition of our stock or (ii) the issuance of shares of
    our stock.


 


    Because of these restrictions, we may be limited in the amount
    of stock that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise
    additional capital in the two years subsequent to the spin-off
    and the FNF Merger and in our ability to repurchase shares of
    our common stock.


 



    We may
    experience software defects, development delays, and
    installation difficulties, which would harm our business and
    reputation and expose us to potential liability.


 


    Many of our services are based on sophisticated software and
    computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing
    new applications and services. Further, the software underlying
    our services has occasionally contained and may in the future
    contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or
    when new versions are released. In addition, we may experience
    difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on
    platforms used by our customers. Defects in our software,
    errors, or delays in the processing of electronic transactions,
    or other difficulties could result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    interruption of business operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    delay in market acceptance;



 


     
        • 

    
    additional development and remediation costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    diversion of technical and other resources;



 


     
        • 

    
    loss of customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    negative publicity; or



 


     
        • 

    
    exposure to liability claims.





 


    Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through
    disclaimers and
    limitation-of-liability
    provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be
    certain that these measures will be successful in limiting our
    liability.


 



    Security
    breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by
    disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our
    reputation.


 


    As part of our business, we electronically receive, process,
    store, and transmit sensitive business information of our
    customers. In addition, we collect personal consumer data, such
    as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver’s
    license numbers, checking and savings account numbers, and
    payment history records. Unauthorized access to our computer
    systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of
    confidential information or the deletion or modification of
    records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our
    operations. These concerns about security are increased when we
    transmit information over the Internet. Computer viruses have



    
    15



Table of Contents




    also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet.
    Computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our
    delivery of services and making our applications unavailable.
    Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses
    could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our
    systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could
    inhibit our ability to attract new customers.


 



    Many
    of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to
    industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the
    number of transactions in which our customers engage and
    therefore reduces our revenues.


 


    Our customers are subject to a number of government regulations
    and industry standards with which our products and services must
    comply. For example, our products are affected by VISA and
    MasterCard electronic payment standards that are generally
    updated twice annually. In addition, action by regulatory
    authorities relating to credit availability, data usage,
    privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an
    adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    and results of operations.


 



    If we
    fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of
    services to financial institutions, our business could be
    harmed.


 


    As a provider of services to financial institutions, we are
    bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information
    we receive from our customers as apply to the financial
    institutions themselves. If we fail to comply with these
    regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract
    or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and
    reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our
    ability to obtain new customers. In addition, if more
    restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on
    the federal or state level, or, with respect to our
    international operations, by authorities in foreign
    jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state, or other
    level, that could have an adverse impact on us.


 



    If we
    experience system failures, the products and services we provide
    to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could
    harm our business and reputation and result in the loss of
    customers.


 


    Our ability to provide reliable service in a number of our
    businesses depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations
    of our computer network systems and data centers. Our systems
    and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from
    fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure,
    unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. Although we have taken
    steps to prevent system failures, we cannot be certain that our
    measures will be successful. Further, our property and business
    interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for
    all losses or failures that may occur. Any significant
    interruptions could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increase our operating expenses to correct problems caused by
    the interruption;



 


     
        • 

    
    harm our business and reputation;



 


     
        • 

    
    result in a loss of customers; or



 


     
        • 

    
    expose us to liability.





 


    Any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    and results of operations


 



    We
    face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have
    guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer’s
    bank.


 


    If a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check
    writer’s bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for
    the check’s face value and pursue collection of the amount
    from the delinquent check writer. In some cases, we recognize a
    liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns
    and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from
    the check writers, based on historical experience and other
    relevant factors. The estimated check returns and recovery
    amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may
    exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less
    than our estimates.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    outsourcing of key development functions overseas may lead to
    quality control issues that affect our business
    operations.


 


    By outsourcing development functions overseas, we may experience
    quality control issues in our applications offered to our
    markets. Overseas outsourcing operations are subject to risk of
    quality control deficiencies due to the physical distance from
    our headquarters, the increased potential for instructions and
    guidance to be misunderstood, a lack of direct institutional
    control and the time and expense it will take to provide on site
    training. Any one of these factors make it more difficult for us
    to maintain quality control, and the potential for quality
    control issues may impact our ability to maintain and or
    increase our customer base.


 



    Misappropriation
    of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair
    our competitive position.


 


    Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and
    technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary
    rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our
    services or to obtain and use information that we regard as
    proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights
    is difficult. We cannot make any assurances that the steps we
    have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that
    the agreements entered into for that purpose will be
    enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and
    trade secret protection may not be available in every country in
    which our applications and services are made available online.
    Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential
    litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations or financial condition.


 



    If our
    applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary
    rights of others, we may be required to change our business
    practices and may also become subject to significant costs and
    monetary penalties.


 


    As our information technology applications and services develop,
    we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any
    claims, whether with or without merit, could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    be expensive and time-consuming to defend;



 


     
        • 

    
    cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that
    incorporate the challenged intellectual property;



 


     
        • 

    
    require us to redesign our applications, if feasible;



 


     
        • 

    
    divert management’s attention and resources; and



 


     
        • 

    
    require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in
    order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies.





 



    We may
    not succeed with our current and future expansion of our
    international operations and such
    failure may adversely affect our growth and results of
    operations.


 


    In 2006, sales outside of the U.S. represented
    approximately 10.9% of our revenues. We believe there are
    additional opportunities to expand our international operations,
    and we expect to commit significant resources to expand our
    international sales and marketing activities. However, overall
    we are less well-known internationally than in the United States
    and have less experience with local business conditions. In
    addition, we will face challenges in successfully managing small
    operations located far from our headquarters, because of the
    greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a
    distance, and we will be increasingly subject to a number of
    other risks and potential costs, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    political and economic instability;



 


     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and policy, the
    adoption of laws detrimental to our operations such as
    legislation relating to the collection of personal data over the
    Internet or the adoption of laws, regulations, or treaties
    governing the export of encryption related software;



 


     
        • 

    
    the burdens of complying with a wide variety of other laws and
    regulations;






    
    17



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    failure to adequately manage currency exchange rate fluctuations;



 


     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on
    the repatriation of earnings;



 


     
        • 

    
    potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting
    receivables in some foreign legal systems; and



 


     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions in international markets.





 


    There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete
    successfully against current or future international competitors.


 



    Sales
    of our shares by large shareholders could adversely affect the
    trading price of our shares.


 


    In connection with the 2005 minority interest sale in Former
    FIS, we entered into a registration rights agreement with
    certain of our stockholders requiring us to register the shares
    of our common stock that are beneficially owned by them.
    Consequently, we have to date registered for resale from time to
    time shares which collectively account for approximately 12.8%
    of our shares outstanding. Sales of these shares, or the
    possibility that sales of these shares may occur in unlimited
    amounts and without prior notice, could adversely affect the
    trading price of our shares.


 



    Statement
    Regarding Forward-Looking Information


 


    The statements contained in this
    Form 10-K
    or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other
    statements made by our management that are not purely historical
    are forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    including statements regarding our expectations, hopes,
    intentions, or strategies regarding the future. These statements
    relate to, among other things, our future financial and
    operating results. In many cases, you can identify
    forward-looking statements by terminology such as
    “may,” “will,” “should,”
    “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,”
    “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,”
    “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative
    of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results
    could differ materially from those anticipated in these
    statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but
    not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general political, economic, and business conditions, including
    the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts
    of terrorism, and general volatility in the capital markets;



 


     
        • 

    
    failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in
    the marketplace;



 


     
        • 

    
    consolidation in the mortgage lending or banking industry;



 


     
        • 

    
    security breaches of our systems and computer viruses affecting
    our software;



 


     
        • 

    
    a decrease in the volume of real estate transactions such as
    real estate sales and mortgage refinancings, which can be caused
    by high or increasing interest rates, a shortage of mortgage
    funding, or a weak United States economy;



 


     
        • 

    
    the impact of competitive products and pricing;



 


     
        • 

    
    the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and the
    ability to finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the
    availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of
    acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock
    price;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to integrate any acquired business’ operations,
    products, clients, and personnel;



 


     
        • 

    
    the effect of our substantial leverage, which may limit the
    funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in, or the failure to comply with, government
    regulations, including privacy regulations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    other risks detailed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section and
    in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.






    
    18



Table of Contents



 


    We are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such
    obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements,
    whether as a result of new information, future events or
    otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that
    actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking
    statements.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B