Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to
    significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed
    below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Markets and Industry


 



    Consolidations
    and failures in the banking and financial services industry
    could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our
    existing and potential customers and making us more dependent on
    a more limited number of customers.


 


    There has been and continues to be substantial consolidation
    activity in the banking and financial services industry. In
    addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative
    operating results, including some of our customers, have failed.


 


    The consolidations and failures reduce the number of our
    customers and potential customers, which could adversely affect
    our revenues even if the events do not reduce the aggregate
    activities of the consolidated entities. Further, if our
    customers fail
    and/or merge
    with or are acquired by other entities that are not our
    customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may
    discontinue or reduce use of our services. It is also possible
    that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations
    would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide
    to perform in-house some or all of the services which we
    currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    If we
    fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the
    marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology
    are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty
    attracting new customers for our services.


 


    The markets for our services are characterized by constant
    technological changes, frequent introductions of new services
    and evolving industry standards. Our future success will be
    significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current
    services, and develop and introduce new services that address
    the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their
    clients. These initiatives carry the risks associated with any
    new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays
    in delivery, and performance issues. There can be no assurance
    that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling
    new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not
    experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the
    successful development, introduction, and marketing of these
    services, or that our new services and their enhancements will
    adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve
    market acceptance. Any of these developments could have an
    adverse impact on our future revenues
    and/or
    business prospects.


 



    We
    operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are
    unable to compete effectively our results of operations and
    financial condition may be adversely affected.


 


    The market for our services is intensely competitive. Our
    competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the
    services they offer. Some of our competitors have substantial
    resources. We face direct competition from third parties, and
    since many of our larger potential customers have historically
    developed their key applications in-house and therefore view
    their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we
    often compete against our potential customers’ in-house
    capacities. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we
    compete will continue to attract new competitors and new
    technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    compete successfully against current or future competitors or
    that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which
    we operate will not materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    Potential
    customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may
    adversely affect our growth, both in the U.S. and
    internationally.


 


    For banks and other potential customers of our financial
    information software and services, switching from one vendor of
    bank core processing or related software and services (or from
    an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant
    undertaking. Many potential customers perceive potential
    disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality,
    increased costs (including conversion costs) and business
    disruption. As a result, potential customers, both in the
    U.S. and internationally, may resist change. We seek to
    overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such
    as a defined conversion process, system integration and making
    ongoing investments to enhance the functionality of our
    software. However, there can be no assurance that our strategies
    for overcoming potential customers’ reluctance to change
    vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely
    affect our growth, both in the U.S. and internationally.


 



    Demand
    for many of our services is sensitive to the level of consumer
    transactions generated by our customers, and accordingly, our
    revenues could be impacted negatively by business cycles,
    consumer confidence or any other event causing a material
    slowing of consumer spending.


 


    A significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction
    processing fees. Any changes in economic factors or consumer
    confidence, such as the current recession, that adversely affect
    consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a reduction in
    check writing or credit and debit card usage, could reduce the
    volume of transactions that we process, and have an adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    We
    have a long sales cycle for many of our applications and if we
    fail to close sales after expending significant time and
    resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and
    results of operations may be adversely affected.


 


    The implementation of many of our applications often involves
    significant capital commitments by our customers, particularly
    those with smaller operational scale. Potential customers
    generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of
    available software and require us to expend substantial time,
    effort, and money educating them as to the value of our software
    and services. Our sales cycle may be extended due to our
    customers’ budgetary constraints or for other reasons. We
    may expend significant funds and management resources during the
    sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. If we are
    unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds
    and management resources or we experience delays, it could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    and results of operations.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business and Operations


 



    Losses,
    consolidations and failures in the financial services industry
    may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our
    lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate
    swap agreements.


 


    Many financial institutions are currently experiencing negative
    operating results. In some cases, these negative operating
    results have led to financial institution failures
    and/or
    consolidations, including, in one instance, a lender that is
    party to our Credit Agreement and interest rate swap agreements.
    As a result, lenders may become insolvent or further tighten
    lending standards, which could in turn make it more difficult or
    impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our
    interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our
    Credit Agreement, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain
    financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. Our financial
    condition and results of operations could be adversely affected
    if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations
    under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw
    funds under our Credit Agreement or obtain other cost-effective
    financing.


 



    Our
    existing levels of leverage and debt service requirements may
    adversely affect our financial and operational
    flexibility.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt of approximately
    $3.3 billion. This level of debt could have adverse
    consequences for our business, financial condition, operating
    results and operational flexibility, including the following:
    (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty
    borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital
    expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) limiting
    operational flexibility and our ability to pursue other business
    opportunities and implement certain business strategies;
    (iii) we use a large portion of our operating cash flow to
    pay principal and interest on our senior credit facilities,
    which reduces the amount of money available to finance
    operations, acquisitions and other business activities, repay
    other indebtedness, purchase our outstanding stock and pay
    shareholder dividends; (iv) some of our debt has a variable
    rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased
    interest rates; and (v) we have a higher level of debt than
    some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may
    cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in
    responding to changing business and economic conditions,
    including increased competition.


 


    In addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities may
    restrict us from taking actions, such as making significant
    acquisitions or dispositions or entering into certain
    agreements, which we might believe to be advantageous to us.


 



    We may
    experience defects, development delays, installation
    difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with
    respect to our technology solutions, which would harm our
    business and reputation and expose us to potential
    liability.


 


    Many of our services are based on sophisticated software and
    computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing
    new technology solutions and services. Further, the technology
    solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained
    and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when
    first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition,
    we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our
    technologies on platforms used by our customers. Finally, our
    systems and operations could be exposed to





    
    13



Table of Contents





    damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss,
    telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer
    viruses. Defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays
    in the processing of electronic transactions, or other
    difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business
    operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance;
    (iii) additional development and remediation costs;
    (iv) diversion of technical and other resources;
    (v) loss of customers; (vi) negative publicity; or
    (vii) exposure to liability claims.


 


    Any one or more of the foregoing could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability
    through disclaimers and
    limitation-of-liability
    provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be
    certain that these measures will always be successful in
    limiting our liability.


 



    Our
    revenues from the sale of services to members of VISA,
    MasterCard, American Express, Discover and other similar
    organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and
    sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or
    sponsorship could adversely affect our business.


 


    In order to provide our card processing services, we must be
    certified (including applicable sponsorship) by Visa,
    MasterCard, American Express, Discover and other similar
    organizations. These certifications are dependent upon our
    continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and
    sponsoring member banks. The member financial institutions, some
    of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we
    must comply. If we fail to comply with these standards we could
    be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our
    registration could be terminated. The suspension or termination
    of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and
    regulations governing VISA, MasterCard, American Express,
    Discover, or other similar organizations could prevent our
    registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide services,
    which could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs
    of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect
    on our business.


 



    Many
    of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to
    industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the
    number of transactions in which our customers engage and
    therefore reduces our revenues.


 


    Our customers are subject to a number of government regulations
    and industry standards with which our services must comply. Our
    customers must ensure that our services and related products
    work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry
    requirements applicable to them. Federal, state, foreign or
    industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations
    affecting our customers’ businesses which could lead to
    increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and
    functionality of our products and services possibly resulting in
    reduced market acceptance. In addition, action by regulatory
    authorities relating to credit availability, data usage,
    privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an
    adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    and results of operations.


 



    Security
    breaches or our own failure to comply with privacy regulations
    and industry security requirements imposed on providers of
    services to financial institutions and card processing services
    could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services
    and damaging our reputation.


 


    As part of our business, we electronically receive, process,
    store and transmit sensitive business information of our
    customers. In addition, we collect personal consumer data, such
    as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver’s
    license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records.
    Unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could
    result in the theft or publication of confidential information,
    the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause
    interruptions in our operations. These risks are increased when
    we transmit information over the Internet.


 


    Additionally, as a provider of services to financial
    institutions and card processing services, we are bound by the
    same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive
    from our customers as apply to the customers themselves. If we
    fail to comply with these regulations and industry security
    requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of
    contract, governmental proceedings, or prohibitions on card
    processing services. In addition, if more restrictive privacy
    laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the
    future on the federal or state level or by a specific industry
    body, that could have an adverse impact on us through increased
    costs or restrictions





    
    14



Table of Contents





    on business processes. Any inability to prevent security or
    privacy breaches could cause our existing customers to lose
    confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with
    us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers
    and/or
    adversely impact our relationship with administrative agencies.


 



    Misappropriation
    of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair
    our competitive position.


 


    Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and
    technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary
    rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our
    services or to obtain and use information that we regard as
    proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights
    is difficult. We cannot make any assurances that the steps we
    have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that
    the agreements entered into for that purpose will be
    enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and
    trade secret protection may not be available in every country in
    which our applications and services are made available online.
    Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential
    litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations or financial condition.


 



    If our
    applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary
    rights of others, we may be required to change our business
    practices and may also become subject to significant costs and
    monetary penalties.


 


    As our information technology applications and services develop,
    we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any claims,
    whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and
    time-consuming to defend; (ii) cause us to cease making,
    licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged
    intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our
    applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management’s
    attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into
    royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to
    use necessary technologies.


 



    We
    face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have
    guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer’s
    bank.


 


    If a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check
    writer’s bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for
    the check’s face value and pursue collection of the amount
    from the check writer. In some cases, we recognize a liability
    to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a
    receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the
    check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant
    factors. The estimated check returns and recovery amounts are
    subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our
    estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less than our
    estimates.


 



    Lack
    of system integrity, fraudulent payments or credit quality
    related to funds settlement could result in a financial
    loss.


 


    We settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other
    businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card
    issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a
    variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by us
    include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment
    transactions, ACH payments and check clearing that supports
    consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. These
    payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that
    facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties,
    the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or
    prevention of fraudulent payments. If the continuity of
    operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or
    prevent fraudulent payments were compromised this could result
    in a financial loss to us. In addition, we may issue credit to
    consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of
    the funds settlement. A default on this credit by a counterparty
    could result in a financial loss to us.


 



    Our
    business is subject to the risks of international operations,
    including movements in foreign currency exchange
    rates.


 


    Our international operations represent 21% of total 2009
    revenues, with approximately 16% or our total revenues conducted
    in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. As a result, our
    financial condition and operating results could be significantly
    affected by risks associated with international activities,
    including economic and labor conditions, political instability,
    tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries),
    and changes in the value of





    
    15



Table of Contents





    the U.S. Dollar versus local currencies. In addition, we
    are less well-known internationally than in the United States,
    have less experience with local business conditions and will
    face challenges in successfully managing small operations
    located far from our headquarters, because of the greater
    difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance.


 


    As we expand our international operations, more of our customers
    may pay us in foreign currencies. Conducting business in
    currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to
    movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to foreign
    currencies in Brazil, Europe, Australia and parts of Asia. The
    U.S. Dollar value of our net investments in foreign
    operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated
    earnings to the U.S. Dollar (our reporting currency), our
    results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be
    adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign
    currency exchange rates. During the twelve months ended
    December 31, 2009, approximately 16% of our revenues were
    denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar,
    including the Brazilian Real, British Pound and Euro. These
    risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial position and results of operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to successfully consummate and integrate
    acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    We have made numerous acquisitions in recent years as a part of
    our growth strategy. We anticipate that we will continue to seek
    to acquire complementary businesses and services. This strategy
    will depend on the ability to find suitable acquisitions and
    finance them on acceptable terms. We may require additional debt
    or equity financing for future acquisitions, and doing so may be
    made more difficult by our existing debt. If we are unable to
    acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience
    slower growth. Further, after successfully completing
    acquisitions, we face challenges in integrating acquired
    businesses. These challenges include eliminating redundant
    operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and
    personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate
    cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling
    opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully
    or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them
    together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may
    disrupt our business and divert our resources.


 



    Failure
    to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior
    management personnel could harm our ability to
    grow.


 


    Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and
    retain highly-skilled technical personnel. Because the
    development of our products and services requires knowledge of
    computer hardware, operating system software, system management
    software and application software, our technical personnel must
    be proficient in a number of disciplines. Competition for such
    technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and
    retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, operating results and financial condition.


 


    Our future growth will also require sales and marketing,
    financial and administrative personnel to develop and support
    new products and services, to enhance and support current
    products and services and to expand operational and financial
    systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our
    growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could
    adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a
    timely fashion.


 


    Our senior management team has significant experience in the
    financial services industry, either at FIS or with clients or
    competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an
    adverse effect on our business operating results and financial
    condition.


 



    Risks
    Related to Business Combinations


 



    We may
    fail to realize the anticipated cost savings and other financial
    benefits of the Metavante merger on the anticipated schedule, if
    at all.


 


    To achieve planned financial benefits of the Metavante merger,
    FIS will need to successfully integrate Metavante’s
    operations into its own in a timely and efficient manner and
    will need to execute transitional matters





    
    16



Table of Contents





    successfully, including integrating new members of management
    and the retention of key personnel. There can be no assurance
    that FIS will be able to accomplish this integration process
    smoothly or successfully. In addition, the integration of
    certain operations following the merger will require the
    dedication of significant management resources, which will
    compete for management’s attention with its efforts to
    manage the
    day-to-day
    business of the combined company. Any inability to realize the
    full extent of, or any of, the anticipated cost savings and
    financial benefits of the merger, as well as any delays
    encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse
    effect on the business and results of operations of the combined
    company.


 



    If any
    part of the LPS spin-off is determined to be a taxable
    transaction, then additional taxes could be imposed on us and
    our shareholders.


 


    On June 20, 2008, we received a favorable private letter
    ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”)
    regarding a series of transactions including the distribution of
    LPS common stock to our shareholders which we refer to as the
    spin-off.


 


    Notwithstanding the favorable IRS ruling that the spin-off
    qualified for tax-free treatment, it would become taxable to us,
    pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code, if 50% or more of
    the shares of either our common stock or LPS common stock were
    acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of
    related transactions that included the spin-off. If the IRS were
    to determine that acquisitions of our common stock or of LPS
    common stock, either before or after the spin-off, were part of
    a plan or series of related transactions that included the
    spin-off, this determination could result in the recognition of
    substantial gain by us under Section 355(e).


 


    Although the taxes resulting from the spin-off not qualifying
    for tax-free treatment pursuant to section 355(e) for
    United States Federal income tax purposes would be imposed on
    us, under the tax disaffiliation agreement entered into by us
    and LPS in connection with the spin-off, LPS would be required
    to indemnify us and our affiliates against all tax related
    liabilities caused by the failure of the spin-off to qualify for
    tax-free treatment for United States Federal income tax purposes
    as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code to the extent
    these liabilities arise as a result of any action taken by LPS
    or any of LPS’ affiliates following the spin-off or
    otherwise result from any breach of any representation, covenant
    or obligation of LPS or any of LPS’ affiliates under the
    tax disaffiliation agreement.


 


    There is no guaranty that LPS will have financial resources to
    satisfy any such indemnification obligation described above.


 



    The
    executive chairman of our board of directors and other officers
    and directors have interests and positions that could present
    potential conflicts.


 


    We and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to a variety of
    related party agreements and relationships with FNF and LPS.
    William P. Foley, II, who is our Executive Chairman, is
    currently the Executive Chairman of the board of directors of
    FNF. Lee A. Kennedy, who served as President and Chief Executive
    Officer of our company through September 30, 2009 and who
    currently serves as Executive Vice Chairman, is also the
    Executive Chairman of the board of directors of LPS. In
    addition, he serves as the Chief Executive Officer of Ceridian
    Corporation, a company in which FNF holds an approximate 33%
    equity interest. Brent B. Bickett and Michael L. Gravelle, who
    are executive officers of FIS, are also executive officers of
    FNF. William P. Foley, II, Brent B. Bickett and Michael L.
    Gravelle also own or hold substantial amounts of FNF stock and
    stock options. Thomas M. Hagerty and Richard N. Massey, who are
    both directors of FIS, are also directors of FNF. David K. Hunt,
    a director of FIS, is also a director of LPS. As a result of the
    foregoing, there may be circumstances where certain of our
    executive officers and directors may be subject to conflicts of
    interest with respect to, among other things: (i) our
    ongoing relationships with FNF and LPS, including related party
    agreements and other arrangements with respect to the
    administration of tax matters, employee benefits and
    indemnification; (ii) the quality, pricing and other terms
    associated with services that we provide to FNF and LPS, or that
    they provide to us, under related party agreements;
    (iii) business opportunities arising for either us, FNF or
    LPS, that could be pursued by either us, or by FNF or LPS; and
    (iv) conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially
    or actually involving or affecting FIS.


 


    We seek to manage these potential conflicts through abstention,
    oversight by independent members of our board of directors and
    provisions in our agreements with FNF and LPS. However, there
    can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that
    we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with FNF and
    LPS, or that the





    
    17



Table of Contents





    resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us
    than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party.


 



    We
    have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other
    intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a
    severe or extended economic downturn could cause these
    investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would
    reduce our operating income.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, goodwill aggregated to
    $8,232.9 million, 58.8% of total assets, and other
    indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to
    $49.1 million, 0.4% of total assets. Current accounting
    rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible
    assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or
    whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment.
    Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include
    significant underperformance relative to historical or projected
    future operating results, a significant decline in our stock
    price and market capitalization, and negative industry or
    economic trends. The results of our fiscal year 2009 annual
    assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the
    fair values of the Company’s reporting units were in excess
    of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no
    goodwill impairment existed as of December 31, 2009.
    Additionally, other than impairment charges of
    $124.0 million relating to trademarks associated primarily
    with the rebranding of FIS, the fair value of indefinite lived
    intangible assets was in excess of the carrying value of those
    assets. However, if worldwide or United States economic
    conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank
    spending and consumer behavior, the carrying amount of our
    goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no
    longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record an
    impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our
    results of operations and financial condition. We will continue
    to monitor the fair value of our other indefinite lived
    intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the
    impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if
    there is an impairment in future periods.


 



    Statement
    Regarding Forward-Looking Information


 


    The statements contained in this
    Form 10-K
    or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other
    statements made by our management that are not purely historical
    are forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    including statements regarding our expectations, hopes,
    intentions, or strategies regarding the future. These statements
    relate to, among other things, our future financial and
    operating results. In many cases, you can identify
    forward-looking statements by terminology such as
    “may,” “will,” “should,”
    “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,”
    “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,”
    “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative
    of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results
    could differ materially from those anticipated in these
    statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but
    not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general political, economic, and business conditions, including
    the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts
    of terrorism, and general volatility in the capital markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in
    the marketplace;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidation or failures in the banking industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidation or failures in the retail industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    security breaches of our systems and computer viruses affecting
    our software;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact of competitive services and pricing;




 



     
        • 

    
    the failure to achieve some or all of the benefits that we
    expect from the acquisition of Metavante, including the
    possibility that our acquisition of Metavante may not be
    accretive to our earnings due to undisclosed liabilities,
    management or integration issues, loss of customers, the
    inability to achieve targeted cost savings, or other factors;




 



     
        • 

    
    the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and the
    ability to finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the
    availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of
    acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock
    price;







    
    18



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to integrate any acquired business’ operations,
    services, clients, and personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of our substantial leverage, which may limit the
    funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in, or the failure to comply with, government
    regulations, including privacy regulations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other risks detailed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section and
    in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.





 


    We are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such
    obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements,
    whether as a result of new information, future events or
    otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that
    actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking
    statements.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B