Item 1A.  Risk
Factors

The statements contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference (“Annual Report”) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to,
statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” constitute “forward-looking statements”
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words “may,” “believes,” “expects,”
“plans,” “intends,” “anticipates” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. The actual results of the
future events described in such forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward-looking
statements.

Our actual results may differ
materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including those discussed below. Accordingly, readers of the Annual
Report should consider these facts in evaluating the information and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements
contained herein. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise.

The industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion
trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors.

The athletic footwear and apparel
industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. We cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect
customer preferences on the date of sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead
times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. For example, we order athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. If
we fail to accurately anticipate either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers’ purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely
on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

A substantial portion of our
highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12–25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and licensed apparel as a fashion
statement and are frequent purchasers of athletic footwear. Any shift in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or licensed apparel less
attractive to these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The businesses in which we operate are highly
competitive.

The retail athletic footwear and
apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. Our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with
athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores and mass
merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. The principal
competitive factors in our markets are price, quality, selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, advertising and customer service. We
cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by
our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Although we sell merchandise via
the Internet through Footlocker.com and its affiliates, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic
apparel and sporting goods via the Internet could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, some of the manufacturers of our products
distribute products directly through the Internet and others may follow. Should this occur and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our
manufacturers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable
store locations.

Our sales, particularly in the
United States and Canada, are dependent in part on a high volume of mall traffic. Our stores are located primarily in enclosed regional and
neighborhood malls. Mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores or
changes in customer preferences or acts of terrorism. A decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers could have a material
adverse effect on us.

To take advantage of customer
traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and
neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. We cannot assure you that desirable mall locations will continue to be
available.



2








The effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war and
retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business.

Natural disasters, including
hurricanes, floods and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war and military action
both in the United States and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise
from vendors for sale to our customers. Any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding
future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our
products.

A change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or
the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health.

Our business is dependent to a
significant degree upon our ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices, including the receipt of volume discounts and cooperative
advertising and other allowances from our vendors. The Company purchased approximately 75 percent of its merchandise in 2005 from its top five vendors,
and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. Of that amount approximately
49 percent was purchased from one vendor — Nike, Inc. (“Nike”). We have no long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors. Our
inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly Nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any
disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of our
strong dependence on Nike, any adverse development in Nike’s financial condition and results of operations or the inability of Nike to develop and
manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the
future.

Merchandise that is high profile
and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. Although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient
quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot assure you that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise in
the future. In addition, our vendors provide support to us through cooperative advertising allowances and promotional events. We cannot assure you that
such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions
and results of operations.

We may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our
comparable store sales results.

Our comparable store sales have
fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of
factors affect our comparable store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, the highly competitive retail store sales environment,
economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods and weather
conditions.

Many of our products,
particularly high-end athletic footwear and licensed apparel, represent discretionary purchases. Accordingly, customer demand for these products could
decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. These risks could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our operations may be adversely affected by economic or
political conditions in other countries.

Approximately 25 percent of our
sales and a significant portion of our operating profits for 2005 were attributable to our sales in Europe, Canada, New Zealand and Australia. As a
result, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business outside of the United States, such as foreign governmental
regulations, foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in
which we operate. Although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the value of the U.S. dollar as it relates to certain foreign
currencies.

In addition, because we and our
suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on
favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions and economic, labor and other conditions in the countries from which
our suppliers obtain their product.



3








Our business is subject to
economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary athletic footwear, apparel and related products, tend to decline during
recessionary periods when disposable income is low and customers are hesitant to use available credit.

Complications in our distribution centers may affect our
business.

We operate three distribution
centers worldwide to support our athletic business. If complications arise with any one facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, the
other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. This may adversely affect our ability to deliver
inventory on a timely basis.

A major failure of our information systems could harm our
business.

We depend on information systems
to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our website, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations.
Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed which could have a negative impact on our business. We
may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes.
We cannot assure that our systems will be adequate to support future growth.

Item 1B