 “Risk Factors.”Surveillance typically has the highest backlog of our segments relative to revenue and in absolute terms. At December 31, 2012, Surveillance backlog totaled $261 million, compared with $247 million at December 31, 2011.CustomersSurveillance customers generally consist of United States and foreign government agencies, including civilian, military, paramilitary, and police forces, as well as defense contractors and aircraft manufacturers. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is derived from sales to United States and foreign government agencies and our business will continue to be substantially dependent upon such sales. Aggregate sales to United States government agencies accounted for 27 percent of our consolidated revenue in 2012, 29 percent in 2011, and 34 percent in 2010. We expect revenue outside the United States to continue to account for a significant portion of our Surveillance revenue, but demand for our equipment is increasing rapidly outside the United States. The Surveillance segment is susceptible to some seasonality in its orders primarily based on the United States government budget year end. The result is that the third quarter tends to exhibit the largest amount of orders for our Surveillance segment. However, fiscal policy trends, budget delays, and general economic trends can overshadow this seasonality in any given year.CompetitionThe Surveillance segment operates in highly competitive markets. Many of our competitors in the government sector are well established contractors for various governments and have more financial and other resources than we possess. The principal competitive factors in the government markets include technical innovation, agency relationships, product quality and reliability, price, and ability to deliver. We believe we compete successfully in these markets with our best-in-class technologies, our products’ abilities to outperform customer requirements and competitors’ products, our lower priced solutions that result from our commercial operating model, and our service and support functions that exist in the field and near the customer. Our current principal competitors in the Surveillance markets include divisions of BAE Systems, DRS (a Finmeccanica company), Elbit Systems, General Dynamics, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, Sagem, Sofradir, and Thales.DetectionOur Detection segment provides leading capabilities in the development of advanced sensor technologies used to detect and identify CBRNE threats. The Detection segment is focused on developing technologies and products to penetrate a global market for advanced threat detection capabilities. Detection leverages an established technical research and development organization which, we believe, enables the business to offer the highest quality, most sensitive, and easiest to use products that meet the evolving needs of government and commercial security providers worldwide.Detection manufactures and markets the leading portable explosive detector, the smallest spectroscopic radiation detector, and the smallest hand-held Raman sensor.  The methods Detection’s CBRNE solutions utilize to test and monitor areas for threats include continuous air sampling mass spectrometry (indoor and outdoor), point detection, spray-based analysis, gamma ray detection, vapor testing, liquids screening, and Raman spectroscopy. With significant experience in managing government-funded research and development projects, Detection has developed relationships with various government decision makers and has substantial knowledge of the governmental procurement process. 12MarketsGovernment and private sectors are continuing to find new ways to address increasingly sophisticated types of terrorist attacks, including CBRNE threats, as well as other major security risks and natural disasters. Detection designs, develops and manufactures compact, rugged, and portable instruments that detect CBRNE threats for various end users. Product success has allowed Detection to build a leadership position in the homeland security market, and the business intends to expand on this position through continued development of innovative technologies.  We are also expanding into new markets that include environmental monitoring, food safety, and narcotics detection.Chemical and biological threat detection instruments are used by various facilities, ports, military bases, and checkpoints to quickly and accurately detect trace amounts of chemicals such as illicit drugs, volatile organic compounds, toxic industrial emissions, and warfare agents. We offer both indoor and outdoor biological air monitors that are used by various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Defense, airport authorities, and the National Park Service, for layered security at facilities and events. Our explosives detection products are used to identify military-grade explosives and homemade explosive devices in a wide array of military and public safety applications, such as screening high-risk individuals at checkpoints, identifying improvised explosive device (IED) makers, and screening air passengers and baggage. Our radiation products protect the public by warning of radionuclide exposure and have been or are being used by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Nuclear Emergency Search Team, the New York Police Department, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the U.S. Coast Guard, and the United Kingdom’s Home Office Border and Immigration Agency. Sales and DistributionDetection sells its products worldwide primarily through a direct sales force, but also utilizes third-party sales representatives, value-added resellers, and systems integrators. With a centralized sales organization and specialized sales teams that serve specific markets, Detection has been successful at building and leveraging strong relationships with key decision makers at various government agencies and commercial entities. As some Detection products are designed as components or sub-systems, the business utilizes value-added resellers or systems integrators, including our Integrated Systems segment, for incorporation into their products or systems. For example, Detection provides bio-samplers for first responders, explosives detectors for airport security personnel, and multi-channel analyzers for radiation portals.Detection derives a portion of its revenue, approximately 27 percent in 2012, from funding received from agencies of the United States government pursuant to research projects. The revenue that we recognize under these contracts represents reimbursement by the customer for time periods ranging from several months to several years. Our participation in these and other development programs has culminated in the development of a number of commercial products. In general, our contracts with the United States government permit us to retain all rights to patents emerging from the funded research and development.At December 31, 2012, Detection had a total backlog of $24 million. Backlog represents orders that have been received for products, contract research and development, or other services for which a contractual agreement is in place and delivery or performance is expected to occur within twelve months.CustomersDetection sells its products, systems, and services to a broad base of federal, state and local government customers, to all branches of the United States military, foreign militaries, and to private sector businesses and commercial ports both in the United States and internationally. Utilizing a regionally-deployed sales force, the business sells to agencies of the United States government, such as the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of Energy, the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, Federal Bureau of Investigation, NASA, U.S. Secret Service, U.S. Coast Guard, as well as agencies of multiple state and local governments in the United States, such as the New York Police Department.  Similar to Surveillance, the Detection segment experiences some seasonality in its orders due to the United Stated government budget year end.CompetitionThe markets in which Detection competes are dynamic and highly competitive. Success in these markets depends on our ability to develop new technologies to meet rapidly evolving customer needs, reduce production and development costs, integrate with third-party devices and systems, establish and foster relationships with key government and commercial customers, and recruit highly technical personnel. While Detection does not compete with any one competitor across the full range of our products, we do compete with several single-point providers, diversified enterprises, and divisions of large technology companies, such as: Agilent Technologies, Canberra Industries, Idaho Technologies, NUCSAFE, SAIC, Smiths Detection, Thermo Fisher Scientific, and United Technologies.13Integrated SystemsIntegrated Systems provides platform integration and software solutions that enable adaptive systems to protect and secure borders, perimeters, and critical infrastructure. Integrated Systems utilizes an array of sensor technologies, such as radars, thermal imaging and visible light cameras, chemical detectors, radiation detectors, and command and control systems, provided by our other segments as well as from external parties, to create high value solutions for customers across the world. Integrated Solutions has expertise in creating systems that incorporate numerous sensors and making them work together to meet the often demanding requirements of government and commercial security providers. Integrated Systems performs as a prime contractor on many projects, which strengthens our relationship with the users of our various sensor solutions, allows us to reduce total cost of ownership, and reduces system turnaround time by removing additional steps in the procurement process.Integrated Systems manufactures and markets several highly accurate mobile and fixed solutions for perimeter surveillance. The CerberusTM mobile unmanned towers and manned SkyWatchTM towers are utilized for protecting borders, securing facilities, protecting forces, and safeguarding the public. These tower systems can be deployed in almost any environment and are fully networkable platform solutions that integrate various sensor suites, including infrared thermal or visible light cameras, ground surveillance radar, video motion detection, and unattended ground sensors.  The towers are used at various points along the United States-Mexico border, at theme parks, at national monuments, by the military at home and abroad, by numerous police forces across the United States and to secure high-profile events such as Mardi Gras, the Super Bowl, the Independence Day celebrations on the National Mall and inauguration ceremonies.  Additionally, Integrated Systems offers open-source software that enables customers to command, control, and monitor their sensor networks. CohesionTM is a flexible integration software enabling CBRNE sensors to be incorporated into standard command and control software systems and is specifically designed to support or integrate with our or third-party advanced sensors and devices. CameleonTM video integration software allows for advanced monitoring and control of video surveillance camera networks.MarketsCombining sensor and surveillance technologies to create turn-key security solutions, Integrated Systems develops and manufactures platforms for various surveillance, assessment, and response applications. Global military agencies utilize Integrated Systems’ solutions for force protection, converting domestic and foreign military bases from traditional “boots and guns” security methods to fully networked electronic sensor-based surveillance and warning systems. Border security is a priority for many countries across the world, and our solutions, including manned and unmanned mobile surveillance towers, biometrics and access control systems, and electronic fencing and radar solutions, help keep our customers’ populaces and resources secure. Critical infrastructure, such as airports, power and gas utilities, and harbors, are another key market for Integrated Systems. Sales and DistributionIntegrated Systems markets its solutions to customers through a direct sales force and sales representatives. This sales organization has been successful at selling established solutions to various customers across the world and has secured funded research and development projects with the United States government. These projects are strategically sought out and bid on with the intention that the technologies and solutions that are developed will later be sold to other customers on a commercial basis. In 2012, approximately 54 percent of Integrated Systems revenue was derived from these contracted research projects.  At December 31, 2012, Integrated Systems had a total backlog of $71 million, compared with $42 million as December 31, 2011.CustomersIntegrated Systems sells solutions to United States and foreign government customers, and to private sector customers that manage energy and power production, oil and gas production, commercial ports, and critical infrastructure. Integrated Systems has provided solutions to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. National Guard, Federal Bureau of Investigation, NASA, U.S. Secret Service, U.S. National Park Service, domestic and foreign airports, as well as various state and local governments.CompetitionThe diverse portfolio of solutions Integrated Systems is able to provide places the business in competition with a wide variety of companies in the homeland security, defense, and industrial sectors. We compete by creating innovative new solutions, identifying new markets for advanced surveillance solutions, reducing the total cost of ownership, and building on a successful track record with current customers. Integrated Systems competes with diversified defense integrators, commercial security system integrators, and divisions of large technology companies, such as: Boeing, Cobham, Honeywell, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin, Northrup Grumman, Raytheon, SAIC, Cassidian, Telephonics, and Thales.14Technology and CapabilitiesWe use our expertise in product design, infrared imaging sensors, mass spectronomy, sensing material, optics, lasers, image processing, systems integration, and other technologies, to develop and produce sophisticated thermal, multi-sensor imaging, and threat detection systems. We integrate the following capabilities and disciplines into our manufacturing processes:System Design and IntegrationWe have developed extensive competencies in the design and integration of numerous capabilities and payloads into integrated systems or sub-systems. Competencies such as stabilization, packaging and systems integration allow us to effectively combine a wide variety of technologies and payloads to design and manufacture complex systems to suit our customers’ needs.  RadiometryOur ability to produce thermal imaging systems that can accurately measure temperature is critical in many of our thermography markets. We have demonstrated know-how in designing and producing systems that can measure temperature to within very precise tolerances while maintaining accuracy and stability over time and over a wide range of ambient temperatures. We believe our skills in this area, known as radiometry, offer an important competitive advantage over many of our competitors.  Mechanical EngineeringOur design and production of thermal imaging systems involves highly sophisticated mechanical engineering techniques, particularly in the design and assembly of the supporting structures for system components such as detector arrays, coolers, scanners and optics. We also have expertise in designing stabilized assemblies used in our gimbal mounted products utilizing electro-mechanical control, gyroscopes and electronic stabilization, and specialized control mechanisms.  Infrared Detector Design  ManufacturingWe design and manufacture both cooled and uncooled infrared detector arrays, in high volumes and at low costs. We believe our uncooled vanadium oxide microbolometers and cooled detectors using indium antimonide and indium gallium arsenide are among the highest performing infrared detectors of their type available in the world. Internal design and manufacturing of detectors provides significant cost and engineering advantages compared with the use of third-party detectors.  Integrated Circuits and  Electronic DesignWe have significant electronic design capabilities across several specialized areas, including readout integrated circuit design, signal processing, image processing, and electronics integration. Our design expertise lies in the areas of reliability, low power consumption and extreme environmental survivability.  Sensing MaterialsOur sensors use new materials with novel characteristics, such as innovative semiconductors, crystals, polymers, reagents, and other recently developed materials. Some materials are extraordinarily sensitive, responding to trace exposures of chemical compounds such as explosives, nerve agents, or biological proteins. Other materials respond to low-intensity radioactive emissions of electromagnetic energy, such as specific bands of infrared light. Many of these materials did not exist a few years ago or could not be sufficiently purified or economically assembled into functional structures.  Software DevelopmentSoftware is an increasingly important aspect of our overall engineering and design activity. We offer networking capability, video analytics and other software and middleware inside many of our camera systems, and such applications are growing in importance. Our systems are also able to interface with many standard external software protocols.  Optical Design, Fabrication  and CoatingWe design and manufacture sophisticated infrared optics using materials such as silicon and germanium that are required to produce a thermal imaging system. This capability allows us to rapidly develop optics optimized for use with our cameras and avoid costs and delays associated with reliance on third-party optics suppliers. We also have the ability to apply custom vapor deposited coatings to improve the transmission of the unique lens materials that are used in infrared systems.  Micro-CoolersWe manufacture the industry’s smallest, lightest and lowest power micro-coolers for use in cooling infrared detectors. Our coolers are especially effective in hand-held applications, where light weight and long battery life are essential.  Lasers and Laser ComponentsMany of our more sophisticated systems are increasingly being offered with various types of laser payloads, including pointers, illuminators, rangefinders and designators. We design and manufacture purpose-built laser rangefinders and designators for inclusion in some of our gimbaled systems. We also manufacture certain laser-related components for customers.  Our 2011 acquisition of Aerius Photonics enhanced our ability to provide advanced laser components.15Tactical PlatformsWith our acquisition of ICx in 2010, we added the capability to develop and manufacture comprehensive and integrated solutions for surveillance, assessment, and response. These platform solutions draw from our Surveillance and Detection products, as well as products sourced outside of the Company. These unmanned and manned networkable mobile and vehicle mounted tower systems, branded under CerberusTM and SkyWatchTM names, can be deployed in nearly any environment and have provided security at borders, at theme parks, for police and military forces, at national monuments, and at high profile events.Research & DevelopmentOur success has been and will continue to be substantially affected by our ability to innovate new products and technologies that both augment our existing offerings and create new avenues for growth. We strive to differentiate ourselves from our competition with our R&D capabilities. Our internally funded research and development expenses were $137.8 million, $147.2 million and $116.6 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We intend to continue to have significant internal research and development expenses in the future to provide a continuing flow of innovative and high quality products to maintain and enhance our competitive position in each of our business segments. In addition to these internally-funded amounts, we have spent a declining amount on research and development projects that were reimbursed by government agencies or prime contractors pursuant to development contracts we undertook. Focusing on projects that have the highest probability for commercial marketability, our R&D teams are located within our business segments. These teams work to develop products that will fulfill our customers’ constantly evolving needs while also sharing findings, technologies, tools, and best practices with one another. One method that our Government Systems division R&D teams use to ensure our new products evolve with our customers is a development process that utilizes rapid field testing and refinement of new technologies in order to get end-users the critical protection and information tools they need as quickly as possible. A key tenet of our development philosophy is seeking and receiving end-user feedback on new or upgraded products. Engineers in the field work with the end-users in real-time in order to revise and tune products quickly and efficiently. The solicitation and effectiveness of the end-user feedback has proven integral to our success in creating the most technologically advanced yet user-friendly solutions.Proprietary RightsGiven our focus on being the innovation leader in our key markets, we have numerous pending and issued patents and trademarks, commercial and technical trade secrets and other intellectual property that are important for our success. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, a strong Internet domain presence, confidentiality agreements, joint development agreements, and robust contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Given our diligent efforts to respect the intellectual property rights of others combined with the important competitive advantages that our intellectual property provides, we have intensified our efforts to police and protect our intellectual property from improper use and misappropriation. We will continue to actively protect our intellectual property and intend to emphasize initiatives that will further promote innovation and leadership in marketable technology. We cannot, however, be certain or give any assurance that we can secure patent or trademark protection on all our innovations, maintain our competitive advantage or that competitors will not develop similar or superior capabilities.ManufacturingWe manufacture many of the critical components for our products, including but not limited to infrared detectors, gimbals, pan-tilts, optics and coatings, laser sub-systems and micro-coolers, and develop much of the necessary software and middleware for our systems. This vertical integration minimizes lead times, facilitates prompt delivery of our products, controls costs and ensures that these components satisfy our quality standards. We purchase other parts pre-assembled, including certain detectors, certain coolers and optics, circuit boards, cables and wire harnesses. These purchased and manufactured components are then assembled into finished systems and tested at one of our primary production facilities located in the U.S., Sweden, Estonia, France, and Canada. Certain components and finished goods, especially many of our Raymarine products, are produced by contract manufacturers.Our manufacturing operations are, from time to time, audited by certain OEM customers, which include several major aircraft manufacturers, and have been certified as meeting their quality standards. Substantially all of our manufacturing locations are either ISO 9001:2000 or :2008 certified with certain locations having higher certifications.16Customer ServiceWe maintain service facilities at many locations worldwide. Each of our service facilities has the capability to perform the complex calibrations required to service thermal imaging systems. We also maintain field service capabilities under the direction of our independent representatives or distributors in locations outside the United States.Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had 2,962 employees of which 1,746 were located in the United States and 1,216 were located outside of the United States. We have generally been successful in attracting highly skilled technical, marketing and management personnel. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a union or other bargaining group. Certain employees in Europe are represented by unions and workers councils whose contracts are subject to periodic renegotiations. We believe our relationships with our employees, unions and workers councils are good.Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations.  We continually assess our obligations and compliance with respect to these requirements.  We have also assessed the risk for environmental contamination for our various manufacturing facilities, including our acquired businesses and facilities and, where appropriate, have obtained indemnification from the sellers of those businesses and facilities.We believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance will all existing applicable environmental laws and permits.  Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance are a normal, recurring part of our operations.  Historically, these costs have not been material.Available InformationOur internet website address is www.flir.com. This Report, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and other required filings are available through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Report.17ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSThe following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company.  If we are unable to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.General economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial conditionOur operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of capital investment and consumer spending. Economic factors that could adversely influence demand for the Company’s products include uncertainty about global economic conditions leading to reduced levels of investment, changes in government spending levels and/or priorities, the size and availability of government budgets, customers’ and suppliers’ access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting government, industrial or consumer spending behavior.In 2012, our performance was negatively impacted by reduced spending by the United States and Middle East government agencies and the Eurozone crisis.  Continuation of the conditions that led to reduced spending and potential further reductions in spending globally by either consumers or government agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our primary markets are volatile and unpredictableOur business depends on the demand for our products and solutions in a variety of commercial, industrial and government markets. In the past, the demand for our products in these markets has fluctuated due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders;•variations in the volume of orders for a particular product or product line in a particular quarter;•the size and timing of new contract awards;•the timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; and•the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results result from:•the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States government and certain foreign governments;•the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations; and•the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration.We depend on the United States government for a material portion of our business and changes in government spending could adversely affect our businessWe derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have an adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, approximately 27 percent, 29 percent and 34 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies. The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control. In addition, at its discretion, the United States government may change its spending priorities and/or terminate, reduce or modify contracts.As a result of passage of the Budget Control Act of 2011, substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.  Reductions in military spending, known as the "sequester," could adversely affect our results from operations.  The continued use of continuing resolutions by the United States government, which limit spending flexibility and levels by United States government agencies, may also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.As a United States government supplier, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulationsGovernment contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements and are subject to routine audits and investigations by United States government agencies. If we fail to comply with these rules and regulations, the results could include: reductions in the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the assessment of penalties and fines; and/or suspension or debarment from United States government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or permanently.18Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products and enter into new marketsThe markets in which we compete, including the thermal imaging and CBRNE industries, are characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations. We will continue to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to improve our manufacturing capability, reduce costs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot be certain that our new products and technologies will be successful or that customers will accept any of our new products.We must successfully manage an increasingly complex global organizationAs we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially. We now design, manufacture and market numerous product lines across our segments in numerous locations worldwide. Significant management time and effort is required to effectively manage the increased complexity of the business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we manufacture our products at various facilities. Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power outage, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, or labor or political unrest, could prevent us from supplying products to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face risks from international sales and business activitiesWe market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, international sales accounted for 49 percent, 48 percent and 47 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. We also manufacture certain products and subassemblies in Europe and we have several contract manufacturing agreements with third parties in Europe and in Asia. Our international business activities are subject to a number of risks, including:•the imposition of and changes to governmental controls;•restrictions on the export of critical technology;•trade restrictions;•difficulty in collecting receivables;•inadequate protection of intellectual property;•labor union activities;•changes in tariffs and taxes;•restrictions on repatriation of earnings;•restriction on the importation and exportation of goods and services;•compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and•political and economic instability.No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Operating margins may be negatively impacted by a downturn in salesOur expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term. Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company. We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.  Our fixed costs, including facilities and information technology costs, compliance and public company costs, and depreciation and amortization related to previous acquisitions and capital expenditures, are significant and are difficult to reduce in the short term.19Competition in our markets is intense and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our businessCompetition in the markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical, sales and other personnelOur future success depends in part on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future. We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We may be unable to successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions into our operations, thereby disrupting our business and harming our financial condition and results of operationsWe have made thirteen acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years. Our most recent acquisitions include Lorex and Traficon in 2012, Aerius Photonics, LLC in 2011, and Raymarine Holdings Limited (“Raymarine”) and ICx Technologies, Inc. (“ICx”) in 2010. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, we could lose key personnel from companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue.We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and it is likely that we will make additional acquisitions in the future. Such acquisitions may vary in size and complexity. Any future acquisitions are subject to the risks described above. Furthermore, we might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. Additional debt may negatively impact our results and increase our financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our then existing shareholders’ ownership. No assurance can be given that we will realize anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions, or that any such acquisition or investment will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may experience impairment in the value of our tangible and intangible assetsOur industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets. As of December 31, 2012, our intangible assets, including goodwill, totaled $643.7 million and represented 30 percent of our total assets. Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired. We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events. To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future. In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns. We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face risks from currency fluctuationsHistorically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars, by balancing expenses and revenues in various currencies and by undertaking limited hedging of forecasted currency exposures. With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive.20Our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our businessOur ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold United States patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, and we are actively pursuing additional patents, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily prevent our competitors from entering the markets we serve, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that our competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours.Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We have been the subject of patent and other intellectual property litigation in the past and cannot be sure that we will not be subject to such litigation in the future. Similarly, there exists the possibility we will assert claims in litigation to protect our intellectual property. Lawsuits defending or prosecuting intellectual property claims and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding in which we are a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in the loss of intellectual property rights we claim or impact our competitive position. Additionally, an adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If such licenses are not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governmentsExport licenses are required from United States government agencies under the Export Administration Act, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 for export of many of our products. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these licenses. In the aftermath of 9/11, heightened government scrutiny of export licenses for products in our markets has resulted in lengthened review periods for our license applications. Failure to obtain or delays in obtaining these licenses would prevent or delay us from selling our products outside the United States and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely on information systems, electronic communication systems, internal and external data and application software in our operations. Systems failures, security breaches, and other disruptions, whether internal or external, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operationsThe efficient operation of our business is dependent on computer hardware, software, and communication systems. Even the most well protected information systems are vulnerable to systems failures. Such failures could be caused by internal or external events such as incursions by intruders or hackers, computer viruses, power  outages or cyber terrorists.  We are particularly mindful of these risks because we believe the technologies we have developed or acquired are attractive to third parties.  The unavailability of the information systems, the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason, or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous effects, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of our operations, increased overhead costs, and the loss or compromise of important information or data, causing our reputation, business, and results of operations to be adversely affected.Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial product liability, damage or warranty claimsWe include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. If any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses including expenses arising from product liability and warranty claims, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand our presence into new markets, we may face increased exposure to product liability claims.  We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it will be sufficient or will continue to be available on acceptable terms.21We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.75 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes which may limit our operational and financial flexibilityOur ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture. In the event of any such default, under the credit facility, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees under the facility to be due and immediately payable.  In the event of any such default under our indenture, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes could declare the principal amount of all of the Notes to be due and payable immediately.Changes in our effective income tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operationsOur future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including:•the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;•adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;•increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes;•changes in available tax credits;•changes in share-based compensation expense;•changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles;•changes in foreign tax rates or agreed upon foreign taxable base; and/or•the repatriation of earnings from outside the United States for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes.Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if any assessments resulting from the examination of our income tax returns by the IRS or other taxing authorities are not resolved in our favor.State of Oregon law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would benefit our shareholdersOther companies may seek to acquire or merge with us. An acquisition or merger of our Company could result in benefits to our shareholders, including an increase in the value of our common stock. Some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including our ability to issue preferred stock without further action by our shareholders, as well as provisions of the State of Oregon law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable.ITEM 1B