ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. If
    they do, our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known
    to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our
    business operations. Because of these risk factors, as well as
    other variables affecting our operating results, past financial
    performance may not be a reliable indicator of future
    performance, and historical trends should not be used to
    anticipate results or trends in future periods.


 



    Our
    business depends on the levels of capital investment and
    maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are
    affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic
    and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature
    of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global
    credit and capital markets.


 


    Demand for most of our products and services depends on the
    level of new capital investment and planned maintenance
    expenditures by our customers. The level of capital expenditures
    by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic
    conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within
    their respective industries and expectations of future market
    behavior. Additionally, volatility in commodity prices can
    negatively affect the level of these activities and can result
    in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or
    cancellation of existing orders. The ability of our customers to
    finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected
    by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such
    as the condition of global credit and capital markets.


 


    The businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and
    gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial
    companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced
    periodic downturns. Our customers in these industries,
    particularly those whose demand for our products and services is
    primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large
    capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades,
    during economic downturns. For example, our chemical customers
    generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments
    and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic
    environment, which reduces demand for our products and services.
    Additionally, while oil and gas prices have recently recovered
    somewhat from their lows, fluctuating energy demand forecasts
    and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing can cause
    our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning,
    which may reduce demand for our products and services. Reduced
    demand for our products and services could result in the delay
    or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess
    manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption
    of fixed manufacturing costs. This reduced demand may also erode
    average selling prices in our industry. Any of these results
    could adversely affect our business, financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment
    and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their
    markets. Disruptions in global financial markets and banking
    systems experienced in 2008 continue to create difficulties in
    accessing credit and capital markets, and the costs of newly
    raised debt have generally increased. Continued difficulty in
    accessing these markets and the increased associated costs can
    have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects,
    including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during
    favorable market conditions. In addition, the liquidity and
    financial position of our customers could impact their ability
    to pay in full
    and/or on a
    timely basis. Any of these factors, whether individually or in
    the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our
    customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Continuing
    volatility in commodity prices, prolonged credit and capital
    market disruptions and a sluggish global economic recovery could
    prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could
    adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede
    our ability to realize revenues on our backlog.


 


    The increased levels of disruption experienced by credit and
    capital markets around the globe in the latter half of 2008 and
    continuing through 2009 has included, among other things,
    extreme volatility in securities prices, reduced levels of
    liquidity and credit availability and declining and uncertain
    valuations. These disruptions, when combined with the volatility
    in commodity prices that has also been experienced, have
    contributed to a significant





    
    16



Table of Contents





    decrease in the rate of general economic growth. While global
    economic conditions stabilized generally in the latter half of
    2009, a sluggish global economic recovery or extended slowing of
    global economic activity could adversely affect the businesses
    of our customers, which could potentially result in delays or
    cancellations of orders for our products.


 


    Our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders.
    While we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be
    indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value
    our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors,
    including economic uncertainty. While we attempt to mitigate the
    financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through
    contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience
    a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can
    result from the aforementioned economic conditions, it could
    impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on
    our backlog. Such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    be unable to deliver our sizeable backlog on time, which could
    affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our
    relationships with customers.


 


    At December 31, 2009, backlog was $2.4 billion. In
    2010, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for
    backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not
    limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate
    supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory
    required for production, an adequately trained and capable
    workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large
    projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of
    manufacturing resources. Many of the contracts we enter into
    with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and
    contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. Failure to
    deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject
    us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing
    customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 



    We
    sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results
    in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to
    maintain or increase the market share of our
    products.


 


    The markets for our products and services are fragmented and
    highly competitive. We compete against large and
    well-established national and global companies, as well as
    regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare
    parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end user
    customers. We compete based on price, technical expertise,
    timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation
    history and reputation for quality and reliability. While
    competitive environments in slow growth industries and for
    original equipment orders are inherently more influenced by
    pricing, domestic and global economic conditions during 2009 and
    current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive
    influence of pricing has broadened. Additionally, some of our
    customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors
    from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and
    diversity of their inventory. To remain competitive, we must
    invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support
    and our distribution networks. No assurances can be made that we
    will have sufficient resources to continue to make the
    investment required to maintain or increase our market share or
    that our investments will be successful. If we do not compete
    successfully, our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.


 



    If we
    are not able to execute and realize the expected financial
    benefits from our strategic realignment and other cost-saving
    initiatives, our business could be adversely
    affected.


 


    At the outset of 2009, we announced a strategic realignment
    initiative intended to reduce and optimize certain non-strategic
    manufacturing facilities and our overall cost structure. This
    initiative was expanded in the latter half of 2009 to include
    additional realignment activities in the remainder of 2009 and
    continuing to a lesser extent into 2010, and involves structural
    changes in our global manufacturing footprint through additional
    migration to low-cost regions, additional consolidation of
    product manufacturing and further SG&A reductions. We also
    announced as part of our larger realignment strategy and to
    better serve our customers that, effective January 1, 2010,
    we consolidated the Flowserve Pump Division and Flow Solutions
    Division into the new Flow Solutions Group.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    While we anticipate significant financial benefits from our
    strategic realignment, anticipated cost savings are by their
    nature estimates that are difficult to predict and are
    necessarily inexact. Further, our integration of the Flowserve
    Pump and Flow Solutions Divisions and our additional realignment
    activities will place substantial demands on our management,
    which could divert attention from other business priorities. If
    we are unable to integrate our businesses successfully or
    execute these realignment activities effectively, then we may
    fail to realize the anticipated synergies, customer service
    improvements and cost savings of this strategic initiative. This
    failure could, in turn, materially adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    Economic,
    political and other risks associated with international
    operations could adversely affect our business.


 


    A substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located
    outside the U.S. We have manufacturing, sales or service
    facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in
    over 70 countries, in addition to the U.S. Moreover, we
    primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering
    functions to, and source our raw materials and components from,
    China, Eastern Europe, India, Latin America and Mexico.
    Accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject
    to risks associated with doing business internationally,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    instability in a specific country’s or region’s
    political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging
    markets and the Middle East;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import
    and export licensing and control requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or
    tax examinations;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables
    through some foreign legal systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    partial or total expropriation;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing protection of intellectual property;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to repatriate income or capital; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies,
    which may be different than the customary business practices of
    local cultures.





 


    For example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively
    impact the demand for our products from customers in affected
    countries and other customers, such as U.S. oil refineries,
    that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply
    of crude oil. Similarly, military conflicts in the Middle East
    could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our
    products and services. We are also investigating or have
    investigated certain allegations regarding foreign management
    engaging in unethical practices prohibited by our Code of
    Business Conduct, which could have inappropriately benefited
    them at our expense.


 


    In order to manage our
    day-to-day
    operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and
    assimilate different business practices. In addition, we are
    required to create compensation programs, employment policies
    and other administrative programs that comply with laws of
    multiple countries. We also must communicate and monitor
    standards and directives across our global network. Our failure
    to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations
    could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business
    and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards
    and procedures.


 


    Our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to
    anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks
    associated with our international operations. Any of these
    factors could, however, materially adversely affect our
    international operations and, consequently, our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.




    
    18



Table of Contents






    Our
    international operations and foreign subsidiaries are subject to
    a variety of complex and continually changing laws and
    regulations.


 


    Due to the international scope of our operations, the system of
    laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and
    includes, without limitation, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act and regulations issued by the U.S. Customs
    and Border Protection, the U.S. Department of
    Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, the
    U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets
    Control and various foreign governmental agencies, including
    applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control
    and transfer pricing regulations and various programs
    administered by the United Nations, as applicable. No assurances
    can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in
    compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such
    laws or regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the nature,
    scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our
    international operations might be subject or the manner in which
    existing laws might be administered or interpreted.


 


    We are also subject to risks associated with certain of our
    foreign subsidiaries autonomously making sales and providing
    related services, under their own local authority, to customers
    in countries that have been designated by the U.S. State
    Department as state sponsors of terrorism, including Iran, Syria
    and Sudan. Due to the growing political uncertainties associated
    with these countries, in 2006, our foreign subsidiaries began a
    voluntary withdrawal, on a phased basis, from conducting new
    business in these countries. The aggregate amount of all
    business done by our foreign subsidiaries for customers in Iran,
    Syria and Sudan accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated
    global revenue in 2009. While substantially all new business
    with these countries has been voluntarily phased out, our
    foreign subsidiaries may independently continue to honor certain
    existing contracts, commitments and warranty obligations in
    compliance with U.S. and other applicable laws and
    regulations.


 



    Our
    international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates.


 


    A significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs,
    assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than
    the U.S. dollar. The primary currencies to which we have
    exposure are the Euro, British Pound, Mexican Peso, Argentina
    Peso, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Russian
    Ruble, Indian Rupee, Singapore Dollar, Swedish Krona and
    Venezuelan Bolivar. Certain of the foreign currencies to which
    we have exposure, such as the Argentinean Peso and the
    Venezuelan Bolivar, have undergone significant devaluation in
    the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary
    assets, reduce the U.S. dollar value of our local cash
    flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability
    to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent
    company and potentially reduce the U.S. dollar value of
    future local net income. Although we enter into forward exchange
    contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated
    with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no
    assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 



    Noncompliance
    with U.S. export control laws could materially adversely affect
    our business.


 


    In March 2006, we initiated a voluntary process to determine our
    compliance posture with respect to U.S. export control and
    economic sanctions laws and regulations. Upon initial
    investigation, it appeared that some product transactions and
    technology transfers were not handled in full compliance with
    U.S. export control laws and regulations. As a result, in
    conjunction with outside counsel, we conducted a voluntary
    systematic process to further review, validate and voluntarily
    disclose export violations discovered as part of this review
    process. We completed our comprehensive disclosures to the
    appropriate U.S. government regulatory authorities at the
    end of 2008, and we continue to work with those authorities to
    supplement and clarify specific aspects of those disclosures.
    Based on our review of the data collected, during the
    self-disclosure period of October 1, 2002 through
    October 1, 2007, a number of process pumps, valves,
    mechanical seals and parts related thereto were exported, in
    limited circumstances, without required export or reexport
    licenses or without full compliance with all applicable rules
    and regulations to a number of different countries throughout
    the world, including certain U.S. sanctioned countries. The
    foregoing information is subject to revision as we further
    review this submittal with applicable U.S. regulatory
    authorities.


 


    Any self-reported violations of U.S. export control laws
    and regulations may result in civil or criminal penalties,
    including fines
    and/or other
    penalties. We are currently engaged in discussions with
    U.S. regulators about





    
    19



Table of Contents





    such penalties as part of our effort to resolve this matter;
    however, while we currently do not believe any such penalties
    will have a material adverse impact on our company, we are
    currently unable to definitively determine the full extent or
    nature or total amount of penalties to which we might be subject
    as a result of any such self-reported violations of the
    U.S. export control laws and regulations.


 



    Terrorist
    acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our
    business, financial condition and results of operations and may
    adversely affect the market for our common stock.


 


    As a major multi-national company with a large international
    footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or
    disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners,
    suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist
    acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. The
    potential for future attacks, the national and international
    responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security,
    and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the
    Israeli-Hamas conflict and ongoing military operations in the
    Middle East at large, have created many economic and political
    uncertainties. In addition, as a major multi-national company
    with headquarters and significant operations located in the
    U.S., actions against or by the U.S. may impact our
    business or employees. Although it is impossible to predict the
    occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could
    result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it
    difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or
    to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and
    inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our
    employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions,
    any of which could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    We are
    currently subject to a conditional securities class action
    litigation settlement, which if not finalized, could lead to
    continued litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 


    A number of putative class action lawsuits were filed against
    us, certain of our former officers, our independent auditors and
    the lead underwriters of our most recent public stock offerings,
    alleging securities laws violations. By orders dated
    November 13, 2007 and January 4, 2008, the trial court
    denied the plaintiffs’ request for class certification and
    also granted summary judgment in favor of us and all other
    defendants on all of the plaintiffs’ claims. The plaintiffs
    appealed both rulings to the federal Fifth Circuit Court of
    Appeals, and on June 19, 2009, the Fifth Circuit issued an
    opinion vacating the trial court’s denial of class
    certification, reversing in part and vacating in part the trial
    court’s entry of summary judgment. As a result, the case
    was remanded to the trial court for further proceedings
    consistent with the opinion and further consideration of certain
    issues, including whether the plaintiffs can demonstrate that
    the case should be certified as a class action.


 


    Following the issuance of the Court of Appeals’ opinion, we
    engaged in discussions among the parties in furtherance of an
    amicable resolution of the case, which resulted in a stipulation
    of settlement being executed and filed with the trial court. The
    settlement is subject to various customary conditions, including
    preliminary approval by the trial court, notice to class
    members, class member opt-out thresholds, a final hearing and
    final approval by the trial court. These conditions may not
    occur, and we must therefore be prepared to continue the case if
    they do not occur. If the litigation proceeds, we continue to
    strongly believe that we have valid defenses to the claims
    asserted, and we will continue to vigorously defend this case.
    In addition to the significant expense and burden we could then
    incur in further defending this litigation and any damages that
    we could suffer, our management’s attention and resources
    could be further diverted from ordinary business operations in
    order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this
    litigation is then unfavorable to us and our existing insurance
    coverage is either unavailable or inadequate to resolve the
    matter, our financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Environmental
    compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our operations and properties are subject to regulation under
    environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for
    violations. We must conform our operations to applicable
    regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such
    requirements in all countries in which we operate.




    
    20



Table of Contents





    We use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in
    many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. Most of our
    current and former properties are or have been used for
    industrial purposes, and some may require
    clean-up of
    historical contamination. We are currently conducting
    investigation
    and/or
    remediation activities at a number of locations where we have
    known environmental concerns. In addition, we have been
    identified as one of many PRPs at three Superfund sites. The
    projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our
    alleged “fair share” allocation, while not anticipated
    to be material, has been reserved. However, until all studies
    have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an
    amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved,
    some degree of uncertainty remains.


 


    We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and
    capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. In
    addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of
    existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown
    contamination or the imposition of new
    clean-up
    requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis
    for new or increased liabilities. Moreover, environmental and
    sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are
    under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and
    non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in
    operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn,
    increase our compliance costs. Any of these factors could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We are
    party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 


    We are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to
    recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from
    exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured
    and/or
    distributed by us. Such products were used as components of
    process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any
    significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the
    use of this equipment. Although we are defending these
    allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of
    these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from
    other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail
    or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would
    be adequate. Unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms
    could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Our
    business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other
    labor matters.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    15,000 employees, of which approximately 5,500 were located
    in the U.S. Approximately 7% of our U.S. employees are
    represented by unions. We also have unionized employees or
    employee work councils in Argentina, Australia, Austria,
    Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan,
    Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the
    United Kingdom. No unionized facility produces more than 10% of
    our revenues. Although we believe that our relations with our
    employees are strong and we have not experienced any material
    strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made
    that we will not in the future experience these and other types
    of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups
    representing employees or our employees generally, or that any
    future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in
    significant increases in our cost of labor.


 



    Inability
    to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our
    competitive position.


 


    We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks,
    trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing
    arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We
    cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to
    protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent
    infringement on our rights or misappropriation of our
    technology. For example, effective patent, trademark, copyright
    and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in
    some of the foreign countries in which we operate. In addition,
    while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with
    our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual
    property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or
    otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade
    secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or
    operation of our products. If it became necessary for us to
    resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property
    rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we
    may not prevail. Further, adequate remedies may not be available
    in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade
    secrets and manufacturing expertise. If we fail to successfully
    enforce our intellectual





    
    21



Table of Contents





    property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which
    could harm our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    If we
    are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our
    operating margins and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    We purchase substantially all electric power and other raw
    materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from
    outside sources. The costs of these raw materials have been
    volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are
    outside our control. In recent years, the prices for energy,
    metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have
    been volatile. While we strive to offset our increased costs
    through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our
    CIP initiative, where gains are achieved in operational
    efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations
    and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to
    pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our
    customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved.


 



    Significant
    changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions
    changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our
    obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded
    status of these plans and our pension expense.


 


    We maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to
    be funded in the U.S., India, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands and
    the United Kingdom, and defined benefit plans that are not
    required to be funded in Austria, France, Germany and Sweden.
    Our pension liability is materially affected by the discount
    rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of
    the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan
    assets available to fund those obligations and the expected
    long-term rate of return on plan assets. A change in the
    discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease
    in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported
    status of our pension plans and our pension expense. Significant
    changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio
    mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in
    the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate
    of return on plan assets. Changes in the expected return on plan
    assets assumption can result in significant changes in our
    pension expense and future funding requirements.


 


    We continually review our funding policy related to our
    U.S. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and
    regulations. The performance of global financial markets in
    2008, and to a lesser extent in 2009, has reduced the value of
    investments held in trust to support pension plans.
    Additionally, U.S. regulations are continually increasing
    the minimum level of funding for U.S pension plans. The combined
    impact of these changes required significant contributions to
    our pension plans in 2009, which will continue, albeit to a
    lesser extent, in 2010. Contributions to our pension plans
    reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working
    capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts
    and other general corporate purposes.


 



    We may
    incur material costs as a result of product liability and
    warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in
    the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is
    alleged to result in, bodily injury
    and/or
    property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to
    perform as expected. While we maintain insurance coverage with
    respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able
    to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and
    any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against
    product liability claims. In addition, product liability claims
    can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of
    management and other personnel for significant periods of time,
    regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a
    product liability claim could have an adverse affect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim
    relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our
    customers to lose confidence in our products and our company.
    Warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we
    may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we
    would not be reimbursed.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    The
    recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances
    in the future could affect our operating results.


 


    We currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting
    from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses and other
    deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce
    taxable income in future periods. Based on our assessment of our
    deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future
    income and certain available tax planning strategies, that
    approximately $226 million of our deferred tax assets will
    more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation
    allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred
    tax assets. Should we determine in the future that these assets
    will not be realized, we will be required to record an
    additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred
    tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected
    in the period such determination is made.


 



    Our
    outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the
    agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and
    financial flexibility.


 


    We are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain
    events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding
    indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial
    portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our
    indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash
    flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research
    and development efforts and other general corporate purposes,
    such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could
    generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and industry.


 


    In addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities
    impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and
    somewhat limit management’s discretion in operating our
    businesses. These agreements limit or restrict our ability,
    among other things, to: incur additional debt; change fiscal
    year; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay
    subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted
    payments; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create
    liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates.


 


    Our bank credit facilities also contain covenants requiring us
    to deliver to lenders certificates of compliance with leverage
    and interest coverage financial covenants and our audited annual
    and unaudited quarterly financial statements. Our ability to
    comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our
    control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in
    an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    not be able to continue to expand our market presence through
    acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen
    integration difficulties or costs.


 


    Since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions,
    and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the
    future. Our ability to implement this growth strategy will be
    limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition
    candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt
    agreements and our financial resources, including available cash
    and borrowing capacity. In addition, acquisitions of businesses
    may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher
    leverage and an increase in interest expense, and could result
    in the incurrence of contingent liabilities.


 


    Should we acquire another business, the process of integrating
    acquired operations into our existing operations may create
    operating difficulties and may require significant financial and
    managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the
    ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of
    the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we
    may experience include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company;




 



     
        • 

    
    conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes,
    procedures and controls, including accounting systems and
    controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies
    related to our internal control over financial reporting;




 



     
        • 

    
    coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic
    diversity and complexity;




 



     
        • 

    
    retooling and reprogramming of equipment;







    
    23



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    hiring additional management and other critical
    personnel; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the diversion of management’s attention from our
    day-to-day
    operations.





 


    Further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the
    cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may
    anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such
    benefits within the time frame that we expect. If we are not
    able to timely address the challenges associated with
    acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or
    if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve
    market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information is Subject to Risk and Uncertainty


 


    This Annual Report and other written reports and oral statements
    we make from
    time-to-time
    include “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements
    other than statements of historical facts included in this
    Annual Report regarding our financial position, business
    strategy, plans and objectives of management for future
    operations, industry conditions, market conditions and
    indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements.
    In some cases forward looking statements can be identified by
    terms such as “may,” “should,”
    “expect,” “plans,” “forecasts,”
    “targets,” “seeks,” “anticipate,”
    “believe,” “estimate,” “predicts,”
    “potential,” “continue,”
    “intends,” or other comparable terminology. These
    statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future
    performance but instead are based on current expectations and
    are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other
    factors, many of which are outside of our control.


 


    We have identified factors that could cause actual plans or
    results to differ materially from those included in any
    forward-looking statements. These factors include those
    described above under this “Risk Factors” heading, or
    as may be identified in our other SEC filings from time to time.
    These uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in
    many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the
    factors that may affect our future performance or any
    forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge
    from time to time. Given these risks and uncertainties, undue
    reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a
    prediction of actual results.


 


    All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report
    are based on information available to us on the date of this
    Annual Report and the risk that actual results will differ
    materially from expectations expressed in this report will
    increase with the passage of time. We undertake no obligation,
    and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any
    forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or
    circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect
    the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a
    result of new information, future events, changes in our
    expectations or otherwise. This discussion is provided as
    permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly
    qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements
    contained or referenced in this section.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B