ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    Any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. If
    they do, our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known
    to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our
    business operations. Because of these risk factors, as well as
    other variables affecting our operating results, past financial
    performance may not be a reliable indicator of future
    performance, and historical trends should not be used to
    anticipate results or trends in future periods.


 



    Our
    business depends on the levels of capital investment and
    maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are
    affected by numerous factors, including the state of the
    domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the
    cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the
    condition of global credit and capital markets.


 


    Demand for most of our products and services depends on the
    level of new capital investment and planned maintenance
    expenditures by our customers. The level of capital expenditures
    by our customers depends, in turn, on the general economic
    conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within
    their respective industries and the expectations of future
    market behavior. Additionally, volatility in commodity prices
    can negatively affect the level of these activities and can
    result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the
    delay or cancellation of existing orders. The ability of our
    customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also
    be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their
    industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital
    markets.


 


    The businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and
    gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial
    companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced
    periodic downturns. Our customers in these industries,
    particularly those whose demand for our products and services is
    primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large
    capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades,
    during economic downturns. For example, in response to weak
    demand for their products due to a soft economy, our chemical
    customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital
    investments and operate their facilities at lower levels, which
    reduces demand for our products and services. Additionally, oil
    and gas prices have recently declined significantly, reflecting
    the impact of credit market disruptions and its effect on
    worldwide energy demand, which may negatively impact
    customers’ demand for our products. Diminished demand for
    our products and services could result in the delay or
    cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing
    capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed
    manufacturing costs, and subsequent accelerated erosion of
    average selling prices in our industry, any of which could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 


    Additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment
    and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their
    markets. Recent disruptions in global financial markets and
    banking systems have made credit and capital markets more
    difficult for our customers to access, and are generally driving
    up the costs of newly raised debt. Continuing volatility in the
    credit and capital markets could impair our customers’
    ability to access these markets and increase associated costs,
    which can have a negative effect on investment in large capital
    projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even
    during favorable market conditions. In addition, the liquidity
    and financial position of our customers could impact their
    ability to pay in full
    and/or on a
    timely basis. Prolonged disruptions in financial markets could
    have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn,
    our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 



    Continuing
    volatility in commodity prices, prolonged credit and capital
    market disruptions and a general slowing of economic growth
    could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which
    could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could
    impede our ability to realize revenues on our
    backlog.


 


    As has been widely reported, credit and capital markets around
    the globe have been experiencing increased levels of disruption
    in recent months, which has included, among other things,
    extreme volatility in security prices, reduced levels of
    liquidity and credit availability and declining valuations.
    These disruptions, when combined with the volatility in
    commodity prices that has also been experienced in recent
    months, have contributed to a significant



    
    12



Table of Contents




    decrease in the rate of general economic growth. While credit
    and capital market disruptions have not directly had a
    disproportionate impact on our customer base in general terms,
    the general slowing of global economic activity can adversely
    affect the businesses of our customers, which could potentially
    result in delays or cancellations of orders for our products.


 


    Our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders.
    While we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be
    indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value
    our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors,
    including economic uncertainty. While we attempt to mitigate the
    financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through
    contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience
    a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can
    result from the aforementioned economic conditions, it could
    impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on
    our backlog. Such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    be unable to deliver our significant backlog on time, which
    could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and
    our relationships with customers.


 


    At December 31, 2008, backlog reached $2.8 billion. In
    2009, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for
    backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not
    limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate
    supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory
    required for production, an adequately trained and capable
    workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large
    projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of
    manufacturing resources. Many of the contracts we enter into
    with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and
    contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. Failure to
    deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject
    us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing
    customer relationships, could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 



    We
    sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results
    in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to
    maintain or increase the market share of our
    products.


 


    The markets for our products and services are fragmented and
    highly competitive. We compete against large and
    well-established national and global companies, as well as
    regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare
    parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end user
    customers. We compete based on price, technical expertise,
    timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation
    history and reputation for quality and reliability. Some of our
    customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from
    which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of
    their inventory. To remain competitive, we will need to invest
    continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and
    support and our distribution networks. No assurances can be made
    that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the
    investment required to maintain or increase our market share or
    that our investments will be successful. If we do not compete
    successfully, our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Economic,
    political and other risks associated with international
    operations could adversely affect our business.


 


    A substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located
    outside the U.S. We have manufacturing, sales or service
    facilities in more than 55 countries and sell to customers in
    over 70 countries, in addition to the U.S. Moreover, we
    outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions
    to, and source our raw materials and components from, China,
    Eastern Europe, India, Latin America and Mexico. Accordingly,
    our business and results of operations are subject to risks
    associated with doing business internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    instability in a specific country’s or region’s
    political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging
    markets and the Middle East;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import
    and export licensing and control requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or
    tax examinations;






    
    13



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables
    through some foreign legal systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    partial or total expropriation;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing protection of intellectual property;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to repatriate income or capital; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies,
    which may be different than the normal business practices of
    local cultures.





 


    For example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively
    impact the demand for our products from customers in affected
    countries and other customers, such as U.S. oil refineries,
    that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply
    of crude oil. Similarly, the military conflict in the Middle
    East could soften the level of capital investment and demand for
    our products and services. Additionally, we are investigating or
    have investigated certain allegations regarding foreign
    management engaging in unethical practices prohibited by our
    Code of Business Conduct, which could have inappropriately
    benefited them at our expense.


 


    We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
    rates, as a significant portion of our revenue, and certain of
    our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies
    other than the U.S. dollar. The primary currencies to which
    we have exposure are the Euro, Singapore dollar, Indian rupee,
    British pound, Mexican peso, Argentina peso, Canadian dollar,
    Swedish krona, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen and Australian dollar.
    Certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure,
    such as the Argentinean peso, have undergone significant
    devaluation in the past. Although we enter into forward exchange
    contracts to economically hedge our risks associated with
    transactions denominated in foreign currencies, no assurances
    can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely
    affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our international operations are subject to a variety of laws
    and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act and regulations issued by the U.S. Customs
    and Border Protection, the U.S. Department of
    Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, the
    U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets
    Control and various foreign governmental agencies, including
    applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control
    and transfer pricing regulations and various programs
    administered by the United Nations, as applicable. No assurances
    can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in
    compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such
    laws or regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the nature,
    scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our
    international operations might be subject or the manner in which
    existing laws might be administered or interpreted.


 


    In order to manage our
    day-to-day
    operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and
    assimilate different business practices. In addition, we are
    required to create compensation programs, employment policies
    and other administrative programs that comply with laws of
    multiple countries. We also must communicate and monitor
    standards and directives across our global network. Our failure
    to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations
    could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business
    and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards
    and procedures.


 


    Our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to
    anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks
    associated with our international operations. Any of these
    factors could, however, materially adversely affect our
    international operations and, consequently, our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Noncompliance
    with U.S. export control laws could materially adversely affect
    our business.


 


    In March 2006, we initiated a voluntary process to determine our
    compliance posture with respect to U.S. export control and
    economic sanctions laws and regulations. Upon initial
    investigation, it appeared that some product transactions and
    technology transfers were not handled in full compliance with
    U.S. export control



    
    14



Table of Contents




    laws and regulations. As a result, in conjunction with outside
    counsel, we conducted a voluntary systematic process to further
    review, validate and voluntarily disclose export violations
    discovered as part of this review process. We have completed our
    comprehensive disclosures to the appropriate
    U.S. government regulatory authorities at the end of 2008,
    although these disclosures may be refined or supplemented. Based
    on our review of the data collected, during the self-disclosure
    period of October 1, 2002 through October 1, 2007, a
    number of process pumps, valves, mechanical seals and parts
    related thereto were exported, in limited circumstances, without
    required export or reexport licenses or without full compliance
    with all applicable rules and regulations to a number of
    different countries throughout the world, including certain
    U.S. sanctioned countries. The foregoing information is
    subject to revision as we further review this submittal with
    applicable U.S. regulatory authorities.


 


    Any self-reported violations of U.S. export control laws
    and regulations may result in civil or criminal penalties,
    including fines
    and/or other
    penalties. We are currently unable to definitively determine the
    full extent or nature or total amount of penalties to which we
    might be subject as a result of any such self-reported
    violations of the U.S. export control laws and regulations.


 


    In addition, we are subject to other risks arising from
    conducting our international business operations. These include,
    among other things, risks associated with certain of our foreign
    subsidiaries autonomously making sales and providing related
    services, under their own local authority, to customers in
    countries that have been designated by the U.S. State
    Department as state sponsors of terrorism, including Iran, Syria
    and Sudan. Due to the growing political uncertainties associated
    with these countries, in 2006, our foreign subsidiaries began a
    voluntary withdrawal, on a phased basis, from conducting new
    business in these countries. The aggregate amount of all
    business done by our foreign subsidiaries for customers in Iran,
    Syria and Sudan accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated
    global revenue in 2008. While substantially all new business
    with these countries has been voluntarily phased out, our
    foreign subsidiaries may independently continue to honor certain
    existing contracts, commitments and warranty obligations in
    compliance with U.S. and other applicable laws and
    regulations.


 



    Terrorist
    acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our
    business, financial condition and results of operations and may
    adversely affect the market for our common stock.


 


    As a major multi-national company with a large international
    footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or
    disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners,
    suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist
    acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. The
    potential for future attacks, the national and international
    responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security,
    and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the
    Israeli-Hamas conflict and ongoing military operations in Iraq
    and the Middle East at large, have created many economic and
    political uncertainties. In addition, as a major multi-national
    company with headquarters and significant operations located in
    the U.S., actions against or by the U.S. may impact our
    business or employees. Although it is impossible to predict the
    occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could
    result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it
    difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or
    to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and
    inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to
    impose employee travel restrictions, and thereby adversely
    affect our business, financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 



    We are
    currently subject to the appeal of dismissed securities class
    action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 


    A number of putative class action lawsuits were filed against
    us, certain of our former officers, our independent auditors and
    the lead underwriters of our most recent public stock offerings,
    alleging securities laws violations. By orders dated
    November 13, 2007 and January 4, 2008, the trial court
    granted summary judgment in favor of us and all other defendants
    on all of the plaintiffs’ claims. The trial court also
    denied the plaintiffs’ request for class certification. The
    plaintiffs have appealed both rulings to the federal Fifth
    Circuit Court of Appeals. The appellate briefing is complete and
    oral argument occurred in February 2009. While we strongly
    believe that any appeal or other effort by the plaintiffs to
    overturn the trial court’s denial of class certification or
    entry of judgment would be without merit, and intends to oppose
    any such effort vigorously, we cannot determine with certainty
    the outcome or resolution of any effort to overturn these
    rulings. If the plaintiffs were successful in overturning the
    judgment and



    
    15



Table of Contents




    the case proceeded anew in the trial court, we could not
    determine with certainty the outcome of the plaintiffs’
    claims or the timing for their resolution. In addition to the
    expense and burden we would incur in defending this litigation
    and any damages that we could suffer, our management’s
    efforts and attention could be diverted from the ordinary
    business operations in order to address these claims. If the
    final resolution of this litigation was unfavorable to us, our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could
    be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance
    coverage was unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter.


 



    Environmental
    compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our operations and properties are subject to regulation under
    environmental laws. These laws can impose substantial sanctions
    for violations or operational changes. We must conform our
    operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to
    changes in such requirements in all countries in which we
    operate.


 


    We use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in
    many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. Most of our
    current and former properties are or have been used for
    industrial purposes, and some may require
    clean-up of
    historical contamination. We are currently conducting
    investigation
    and/or
    remediation activities at a number of locations where we have
    known environmental concerns. In addition, we have been
    identified as one of many PRPs at two Superfund sites. The
    projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our
    alleged “fair share” allocation, while not anticipated
    to be material, has been reserved. However, until all studies
    have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an
    amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved,
    some degree of uncertainty remains.


 


    We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and
    capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. In
    addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of
    existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown
    contamination or the imposition of new
    clean-up
    requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis
    for new or increased liabilities, any of which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We are
    party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 


    We are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to
    recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from
    exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured
    and/or
    distributed by us. Such products were used as components of
    process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any
    significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the
    use of this equipment. Although we are defending these
    allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of
    these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from
    other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail
    or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would
    be adequate. Unfavorable rulings, judgments
    and/or
    settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    Our
    business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other
    labor matters.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had more than
    15,000 employees, of which approximately 6,000 were located
    in the U.S. Approximately 7% of our U.S. employees are
    represented by unions. We also have unionized employees or
    employee work councils in Argentina, Australia, Austria,
    Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan,
    Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the
    United Kingdom. No unionized facility produces more than 10% of
    our revenues. Although we believe that our relations with our
    employees are strong and we have not experienced any material
    strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made
    that we will not in the future experience these and other types
    of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups
    representing employees or our employees generally, or that any
    future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in
    significant increases in our cost of labor.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    Inability
    to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our
    competitive position.


 


    We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks,
    trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing
    arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We
    cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to
    protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent
    infringement on our rights or misappropriation of our
    technology. For example, effective patent, trademark, copyright
    and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in
    some of the foreign countries in which we operate. In addition,
    while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with
    our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual
    property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or
    otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade
    secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or
    operation of our products. If it became necessary for us to
    resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property
    rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we
    may not prevail. Furthermore, adequate remedies may not be
    available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of
    our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. If we fail to
    successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our
    competitive position could suffer, which could harm our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    If we
    are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our
    operating margins and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    We purchase substantially all electric power and other raw
    materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from
    outside sources. The costs of these raw materials have been
    volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are
    outside our control. In recent years, the prices for energy,
    metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have
    been excessively volatile. While we strive to offset our
    increased costs through our Continuous Improvement Process
    (“CIP”) initiative, where gains are achieved in
    operational efficiencies, if we are unable to pass increases in
    the costs of our raw materials on to our customers, our
    operating margins and results of operations may be adversely
    affected if operational efficiencies are not achieved. To ensure
    sustained success in CIP achievements, constant training and the
    expansion of CIP projects are a vital strategy within our
    operations.


 



    Significant
    changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions
    relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the
    valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension
    plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension
    expense.


 


    We maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to
    be funded in the U.S., India, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands and
    the United Kingdom, and defined benefit plans that are not
    required to be funded in Austria, France, Germany and Sweden.
    Our pension liability is materially affected by the discount
    rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of
    the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan
    assets available to fund those obligations and the expected
    long-term rate of return on plan assets. A change in the
    discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease
    in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported
    status of our pension plans and our pension expense. Significant
    changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio
    mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in
    the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate
    of return on plan assets. Changes in the expected return on plan
    assets assumption can result in significant changes in our
    pension expense and future funding requirements. The performance
    of global financial markets in 2008 has reduced the value of
    investments held in trust to support pension plans.
    Additionally, U.S. regulations are continually increasing
    the minimum level of funding for U.S pension plans. The combined
    impact of these changes will require us to increase our
    contributions to our pension plans in 2009, thereby reducing the
    availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital
    expenditures, research and development efforts and other general
    corporate purposes. We continually review our funding policy
    related to our U.S. pension plan in accordance with
    applicable laws and regulations.


 



    We may
    incur material costs as a result of product liability and
    warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in
    the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is
    alleged to result in, bodily injury
    and/or
    property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to
    perform as expected. While we maintain insurance coverage with
    respect to certain product liability claims, we may



    
    17



Table of Contents




    not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the
    future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage
    against product liability claims. In addition, product liability
    claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention
    of management and other personnel for significant periods of
    time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful
    defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse
    affect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows. Even if we are successful in
    defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of
    this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our
    products and our company. Warranty claims are not generally
    covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty
    costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed.


 


    The recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation
    allowances in the future could affect our operating
    results.


 


    We currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting
    from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses, and other
    deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce
    taxable income in future periods. Based on our assessment of our
    deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future
    income and certain available tax planning strategies, that
    approximately $207 million of our deferred tax assets will
    more likely than not be realized in the future and no valuation
    allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred
    tax assets. Should we determine in the future that these assets
    will not be realized, we will be required to record an
    additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred
    tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected
    in the period such determination is made.


 



    Our
    outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the
    agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and
    financial flexibility.


 


    We are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain
    events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding
    indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial
    portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our
    indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash
    flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research
    and development efforts and other general corporate purposes,
    such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could
    generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and in the industry.


 


    In addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities
    impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and
    somewhat limit management’s discretion in operating our
    businesses. These agreements limit or restrict our ability,
    among other things, to: incur additional debt; change fiscal
    year; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay
    subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted
    payments; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create
    liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates.


 


    In addition, our bank credit facilities contain covenants
    requiring us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest
    coverage financial covenant certificates of compliance and our
    audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. Our
    ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events
    beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could
    result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    not be able to continue to expand our market presence through
    acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen
    integration difficulties or costs.


 


    Since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions,
    and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the
    future. Our ability to implement this growth strategy will be
    limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition
    candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt
    agreements and our financial resources, including available cash
    and borrowing capacity. In addition, acquisitions of businesses
    may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher
    leverage and an increase in interest expense, and could result
    in the incurrence of contingent liabilities.


 


    Should we acquire another business, the process of integrating
    acquired operations into our existing operations may create
    operating difficulties and may require significant financial and
    managerial resources that would



    
    18



Table of Contents




    otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion
    of existing operations. Some of the more common challenges
    associated with acquisitions that we may experience include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company;




 



     
        • 

    
    conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes,
    procedures and controls, including accounting systems and
    controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies
    related to our internal control over financial reporting;




 



     
        • 

    
    coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic
    diversity and complexity;




 



     
        • 

    
    retooling and reprogramming of equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    hiring additional management and other critical
    personnel; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the diversion of management’s attention from our
    day-to-day
    operations.





 


    Furthermore, no guarantees can be made that we will realize the
    cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may
    anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such
    benefits within the time frame that we expect. If we are not
    able to timely address the challenges associated with
    acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or
    if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve
    market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information is Subject to Risk and Uncertainty


 


    This Annual Report and other written reports and oral statements
    we make from
    time-to-time
    include “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements
    other than statements of historical facts included in this
    Annual Report regarding our financial position, business
    strategy, plans and objectives of management for future
    operations, industry conditions, market conditions and
    indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements.
    In some cases forward looking statements can be identified by
    terms such as “may,” “will,”
    “should,” “expect,” “plans,”
    “forecasts,” “targets,” “seeks,”
    “anticipate,” “believe,”
    “estimate,” “predicts,”
    “potential,” “continue,”
    “intends,” or other comparable terminology. These
    statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future
    performance but instead are based on current expectations and
    are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other
    factors, many of which are outside of our control.


 


    We have identified factors that could cause actual plans or
    results to differ materially from those included in any
    forward-looking statements. These factors include those
    described above under this “Risk Factors” heading, or
    as may be identified in our other SEC filings from time to time.
    These uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in
    many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the
    factors that may affect our future performance or any
    forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge
    from time to time. Given these risks and uncertainties, undue
    reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a
    prediction of actual results.


 


    All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report
    are based on information available to us on the date of this
    Annual Report and the risk that actual results will differ
    materially from expectations expressed in this report will
    increase with the passage of time. We undertake no obligation,
    and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any
    forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or
    circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect
    the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a
    result of new information, future events, changes in our
    expectations or otherwise. This discussion is provided as
    permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly
    qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements
    contained or referenced in this section.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B