ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    Any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. If
    they do, our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known
    to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our
    business operations.


 



    We have
    material weaknesses in our internal control over financial
    reporting, which could adversely affect our ability to report
    our financial condition and results of operations accurately and
    on a timely basis.


 


    In connection with our 2005 assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, we
    identified material weaknesses in our internal control. We have
    taken measures to strengthen our internal control in response to
    the previously identified material weaknesses, including by
    implementing strengthened control procedures for information
    technology infrastructure, enhancing company-level monitoring
    controls processes and expanding our internal audit and
    corporate compliance functions, and engaged outside consultants
    to assist us in our efforts. For a discussion of our internal
    control over financial reporting and a description of the
    identified material weaknesses and of the steps that we have
    taken to remediate these and previously identified material
    weaknesses, see “Item 9A. Controls and
    Procedures — Management’s Report on Internal
    Control over Financial Reporting.”


 


    Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial
    reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely
    and accurate financial information. While we have taken measures
    to strengthen our internal control in response to the previously
    identified material weaknesses, including by implementing
    strengthened control procedures for information technology
    infrastructure, enhancing company-level monitoring controls
    processes and expanding our internal audit and corporate
    compliance functions, and engaged outside consultants to assist
    us in our efforts, additional work remains to be done to address
    the identified material weaknesses. If we are unsuccessful in
    implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to
    update our internal control as our business evolves or to
    integrate acquired businesses into our controls system, we may
    not be able to timely or accurately report our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain
    effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable
    to report financial information timely and accurately or to
    maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could
    be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement
    actions by the SEC and the NYSE, including a delisting from the
    NYSE, securities litigation, events of default under our new
    credit facilities, debt rating agency downgrades or rating
    withdrawals, and a general loss of investor confidence, any one
    of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the
    valuation of our common stock.


 


    Furthermore, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness
    of any system of controls and procedures, including the
    possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding
    of the controls and procedures. We could face additional
    litigation exposure and a greater likelihood of an SEC
    enforcement or NYSE regulatory action if further restatements
    were to occur or other accounting-related problems emerge. In
    addition, any future restatements or other accounting-related
    problems may adversely affect our financial condition, results
    of operations and cash flows.


 



    If we
    fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of
    Sarbanes-Oxley, our business prospects and stock valuation could
    be adversely affected.


 


    Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley of 2002 requires our
    management to report on, and our independent registered public
    accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting. This legislation is relatively
    new, and neither companies nor accounting firms have significant
    experience in complying with its requirements. We expended
    significant resources to comply with our obligations under
    Section 404 with respect to 2004 and 2005. If we are unable
    to comply with our obligations under Section 404 in the
    future or experience delays in future reports of our management
    and outside auditors on our internal control over financial
    reporting, or if we fail to respond timely to any changes in the
    Section 404 requirements, we may be unable to timely file
    with the SEC our annual or periodic reports and may be subject
    to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the
    SEC and the NYSE, including delisting from the NYSE, securities
    litigation, events of default under our new credit



    
    11



Table of Contents




    facilities, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals
    and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which
    could adversely affect our business prospects and the valuation
    of our common stock.


 



    We are
    currently subject to securities class action litigation, the
    unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 


    A number of putative class action lawsuits have been filed
    against us, certain of our former officers, our independent
    auditors and the lead underwriters of our most recent public
    stock offerings, alleging securities laws violations. We believe
    that these lawsuits, which have been consolidated, are without
    merit and are vigorously defending them and have notified our
    applicable insurers. We cannot, however, determine with
    certainty the outcome or resolution of these claims or the
    timing for their resolution. The consolidated securities case is
    currently set for trial on March 27, 2007. In addition to
    the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and
    any damages that we may suffer, our management’s efforts
    and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business
    operations in order to address these claims. If the final
    resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might
    be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance
    coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter.


 



    The
    ongoing SEC and foreign government investigation regarding our
    participation in the United Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program could materially adversely affect our Company.


 


    On February 7, 2006, we received a subpoena from the SEC
    regarding goods and services that certain foreign subsidiaries
    delivered to Iraq from 1996 through 2003 during the United
    Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program. This investigation includes a review of whether any
    inappropriate payments were made to Iraqi officials in violation
    of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The investigation includes
    periods prior to, as well as subsequent to our acquisition of
    the foreign operations involved in the investigation. We may be
    subject to liabilities if violations are found regardless of
    whether they relate to periods before or subsequent to our
    acquisition.


 


    In addition, one of our foreign subsidiary’s operations is
    cooperating with a foreign governmental investigation of that
    site’s involvement in the United Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program. This cooperation has included responding to an
    investigative trip by foreign authorities to the foreign
    subsidiary’s site, providing relevant documentation to
    these authorities and answering their questions. We are unable
    to predict how or if the foreign authorities will pursue this
    matter in the future.


 


    We believe that both the SEC and this foreign authority are
    investigating other companies from their actions arising from
    the
    “Oil-for-Food”
    program.


 


    We are in the process of reviewing and responding to the SEC
    subpoena and assessing the implications of the foreign
    investigation, including the continuation of a thorough internal
    investigation. Our investigation is in the early stages and has
    included and will include a detailed review of contracts with
    the Iraqi government during the period in question and certain
    payments associated therewith. Additionally, we have and will
    continue to conduct interviews with employees with knowledge of
    the contracts and payments in question. We are in the early
    phases of our internal investigation and as a result are unable
    to make any definitive determination whether any inappropriate
    payments were made and accordingly are unable to predict the
    ultimate outcome of this matter.


 


    We will continue to fully cooperate in both the SEC and the
    foreign investigations. Both investigations are in progress but,
    at this point, are incomplete. Accordingly, if the SEC
    and/or the
    foreign authorities take enforcement action with regard to these
    investigations, we may be required to pay fines, consent to
    injunctions against future conduct or suffer other penalties
    which could potentially materially impact our business financial
    statements and cash flows.


 



    Potential
    noncompliance with U.S. export control laws could
    materially adversely affect our business.


 


    We have notified applicable U.S. governmental authorities
    of our plans to investigate, analyze and, if applicable,
    disclose past potential violations of the U.S. export
    control laws through, in general, the export of products,
    services and technologies without the licenses possibly required
    by such authorities. If and to the extent



    
    12



Table of Contents




    violations are identified, confirmed and so disclosed, we could
    be subject to substantial fines and other penalties affecting
    our ability to do business outside the United States.


 



    The
    Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) is auditing our tax
    returns, and a negative outcome of the audit would require us to
    make additional tax payments that may be material.


 


    We have recently concluded an IRS audit of our U.S. federal
    income tax returns for the years 1999 through 2001. Based on its
    audit work, the IRS has issued proposed adjustments to increase
    taxable income during 1999 through 2001 by $12.8 million,
    and to deny foreign tax credits of $2.4 million in the
    aggregate. The tax liability resulting from these proposed
    adjustments will be offset with foreign tax credit carryovers
    and other refund claims, and therefore should not result in a
    material future cash payment, pending final review by the Joint
    Committee on Taxation. We anticipate this review will be
    completed by December 31, 2006. The effect of the
    adjustments to current and deferred taxes has been reflected in
    previously filed financial statements.


 


    During 2006, the IRS will commence an audit of our
    U.S. federal income tax returns for the years 2002 through
    2004. While we expect that the upcoming IRS audit will be
    similar in scope to the recently completed examination, the
    upcoming audit may be broader. Furthermore, the preliminary
    results from the audit of 1999 through 2001 are not indicative
    of the future result of the audit of 2002 through 2004. The
    audit of 2002 through 2004 may result in additional tax payments
    by us, the amount of which may be material, but will not be
    known until that IRS audit is finalized.


 


    In the course of the tax audit for the years 1999 through 2001,
    we have identified record keeping and other material internal
    control weaknesses, which caused us to incur significant expense
    to substantiate our tax return items and address information and
    document requests made by the IRS. We expect to incur similar
    expenses in future periods with respect to the upcoming IRS
    audit of the years 2002 through 2004.


 


    Due to the record keeping issues referred to above, the IRS has
    issued a Notice of Inadequate Records for the years 1999 through
    2001 and may issue a similar notice for the years 2002 through
    2004. While the IRS has agreed not to assess penalties for
    inadequacy of records with respect to the years 1999 through
    2001, no assurances can be made that the IRS will not seek to
    assess such penalties or other types of penalties with respect
    to the years 2002 through 2004. Such penalties could result in a
    material impact to the consolidated results of operations.
    Additionally, the record keeping issues noted above may result
    in future U.S. state and local tax assessments of tax,
    penalties and interest which could have a material impact to the
    consolidated results of operations.


 



    The
    recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances
    in the future could affect our operating results.


 


    We currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting
    from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses, and other
    deductible temporary differences which are available to reduce
    taxable income in future periods. Based on our assessment of our
    deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future
    income and certain available tax planning strategies, that
    $239 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely
    than not be realized in the future and no valuation allowance is
    currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets.
    Should we determine in the future that these assets will not be
    realized, we will be required to record an additional valuation
    allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our
    operating results would be adversely affected in the period such
    determination is made.


 



    We
    operate and manage our business on a number of different
    computer systems, including several aging Enterprise Resource
    Planning (“ERP”) systems that rely on manual
    processes, which could adversely affect our ability to
    accurately report our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 


    We operate and manage our business on a number of different
    computer systems, including disparate legacy systems inherited
    from our predecessors. Some of our computer systems, as well as
    some of our computer hardware, are aging and contain inefficient
    processes. For example, several of our older ERP systems rely on
    manual processes, which are generally labor intensive and
    increase the risk of error. Furthermore, as discussed below
    under “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures”, as of
    the end of 2005, we did not maintain adequate information
    technology



    
    13



Table of Contents




    general controls, as our information technology general controls
    supporting restricted access to financial applications, programs
    and data. Unless we are able to enhance our computer systems
    generally and information technology general controls
    specifically, our ability to identify, capture and communicate
    pertinent information may be compromised, which in turn may
    compromise our ability to timely and accurately report our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


 



    Economic,
    political and other risks associated with international
    operations could adversely affect our business.


 


    A substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located
    outside the U.S. We have manufacturing or service
    facilities in 31 countries and sell to customers in over 70
    countries, in addition to the United States. Moreover, we
    outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions
    to, and source our raw materials and components from China,
    Eastern Europe, India, Latin America and Mexico. Accordingly,
    our business is subject to risks associated with doing business
    internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    instability in a specific country’s or region’s
    political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging
    markets and the Middle East;



 


     
        • 

    
    trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import
    and export licensing and control requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables
    through some foreign legal systems;



 


     
        • 

    
    differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations;



 


     
        • 

    
    partial or total expropriation;



 


     
        • 

    
    differing protection of intellectual property;



 


     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    inability to repatriate income or capital; and



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies,
    which may be different than the normal business practices of
    local cultures.





 


    For example, political unrest and a two-month nation-wide work
    stoppage in Venezuela in 2002 negatively impacted demand for our
    products from customers in that country and other customers,
    such as U.S. oil refineries, that were affected by the
    resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. Similarly, the
    military conflict in the Middle East softened the level of
    capital investment and demand for our products and services in
    that region, notwithstanding the historically high prices for
    oil. Additionally we are investigating or have investigated
    certain allegations regarding foreign management engaging in
    unethical practices prohibited by our Code of Business Conduct
    which could have inappropriately benefited them at Company
    expense.


 


    We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, as a
    significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs,
    assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than
    U.S. dollar. The primary foreign currencies to which we
    have exposure are the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar,
    Mexican peso, Japanese yen, Singapore dollar, Brazilian
    real, Australian dollar, Argentinean peso and Venezuelan
    bolivar. Certain of the foreign currencies to which we have
    exposure, such as the Argentinean peso, have undergone
    significant devaluation in the past. Although we enter into
    forward contracts to economically hedge our risks associated
    with transactions denominated in foreign currencies, no
    assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 


    Our international operations are subject to a variety of laws
    and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act and regulations issued by the U.S. Customs
    Service, the Bureau of Industry and Security, various foreign
    governmental agencies, including applicable customs, currency
    exchange control and transfer pricing



    
    14



Table of Contents




    regulations and various programs administered by the United
    Nations. No assurances can be made that we will continue to be
    found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect
    violations of, any such laws or regulations. In addition, we
    cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory
    requirements to which our international operations might be
    subject or the manner in which existing laws might be
    administered or interpreted.


 


    We have notified applicable U.S. governmental authorities
    of our plans to conduct a voluntary thorough audit of our
    compliance with the U.S. export control laws and, if
    applicable, make a voluntary self-disclosure of any potential
    violations identified, as applicable. If violations are
    identified, then such disclosure could result in substantial
    fines and other penalties.


 


    In order to manage our
    day-to-day
    operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and
    assimilate different business practices. In addition, we are
    required to create compensation programs, employment policies
    and other administrative programs that comply with laws of
    multiple countries. We also must communicate and monitor
    standards and directives across our global network. Our failure
    to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations
    could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business
    and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards
    and procedures.


 


    Our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to
    anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks
    associated with our international operations. Any of these
    factors could, however, adversely affect our international
    operations and, consequently, our results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows.


 



    We may be
    unable to deliver our backlog on time which could affect our
    future sales and profitability and our relationships with
    customers.


 


    At December 31, 2005, backlog reached $994.1 million,
    a record level for the Company.  In 2006, our bookings and
    backlog have continued to increase through, at least
    March 31, 2006. Our ability to meet customer delivery
    schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors
    including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant
    capacity, access to the raw materials and other inventory
    required for production, an adequately trained and capable
    workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large
    projects, and appropriate planning and scheduling of
    manufacturing resources. Many of the contracts we enter into
    with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and
    contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. Failure to
    deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject
    us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing
    customer relationships, could negatively impact our financial
    performance, and potentially cause adverse changes in the market
    price of our outstanding common stock.


 



    Our
    business depends on the levels of capital investment and
    maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are
    affected by the cyclical nature of their markets and their
    liquidity.


 


    Demand for most of our products depends on the level of new
    capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our
    customers. The levels of capital expenditures by our customers
    depend, in turn, on the general economic conditions and
    conditions in their industry, as well as on their liquidity.


 


    The businesses of many of our customers, particularly general
    industrial companies, chemical companies and oil refineries,
    are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced periodic
    downturns. Our customers in these industries historically have
    tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive
    maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. For
    example, demand for our products and services from our general
    industrial customers, such as steel and pulp and paper
    manufacturers, was negatively impacted by the
    U.S. recession in the early part of this decade. Similarly,
    in response to high oil and natural gas prices and a weak demand
    for their products due to the soft economy, during the past
    several years our chemical customers reduced their spending on
    capital investments and operated their facilities at lower
    levels, reducing demand for our products and services. Some of
    our customers may delay capital maintenance even during
    favorable conditions in their markets. For example, while high
    oil prices generally spur demand for our products and services
    in upstream petroleum markets, they often reduce demand for our
    products and services from oil refineries, as refiners seek to
    take advantage of favorable margins by operating at high levels
    of capacity utilization and deferring maintenance.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    The ability of our customers to finance capital investment and
    maintenance may be affected by factors independent of the
    conditions in their industry. For example, despite high natural
    gas prices in 2003, there was little additional investment or
    maintenance activity by our gas customers, many of which have
    experienced liquidity constraints as a result of financial
    difficulties related to their former energy trading activities.


 


    Recently, amid increasing demand for crude and its derivatives
    and the tight market conditions, oil refineries have been
    scheduling maintenance activities and upgrading equipment to
    meet environmental regulations. In addition, chemical companies
    had been able to invest and maintain their equipment as they
    pass through the price increases to the end user. This recent
    evidence suggests a potential change in how the customer
    response to market conditions may impact our business activities.


 


    The diminished demand for our products and services could lead
    to excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent accelerated
    erosion of average selling prices in our industry, which could
    adversely affect our business, results of operations, including
    profit margins, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    As we
    expand our customer alliance programs, an increasing portion of
    our revenues will be on a fixed-fee basis, subjecting us to the
    risks associated with cost overruns.


 


    As part of our customer alliance programs, we enter into
    maintenance agreements that are fixed-fee arrangements. Under
    these agreements, we provide maintenance services, including
    replacement parts and repair services, at a specified fixed fee
    and, accordingly, bear the risk of cost overruns. While we
    conduct a detailed analysis of the customers’ equipment
    prior to entering into fixed-fee maintenance agreements and
    benefit from our extensive experience in the flow control
    industry, our failure to estimate accurately the anticipated
    equipment failures and maintenance costs could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations, including profit
    margins, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    We sell
    our products in highly competitive markets, which results in
    pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to
    maintain or increase the market share of our products.


 


    The markets for our products are fragmented and highly
    competitive. We compete against large and well-established
    national and global companies, as well as regional and local
    companies, low cost replicators of spare parts and in-house
    maintenance departments of our end user customers. We compete
    based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery,
    previous installation history and reputation for quality and
    reliability, with price competition tending to be more
    significant for sales to original equipment manufacturers. Some
    of our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors
    from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and
    diversity of their inventory. To remain competitive, we will
    need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing,
    customer service and support and our distribution networks. No
    assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to
    continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase
    our market share or that our investments will be successful. If
    we do not compete successfully, our business, our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Environmental
    compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our operations and properties are subject to extensive
    regulation under environmental laws. These laws can impose
    substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes that
    may limit production. We must conform our operations to
    applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such
    requirements in all countries in which we operate.


 


    We use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in
    most of our manufacturing and foundry operations. Many of our
    current and former properties are or have been used for
    industrial purposes, and some may require
    clean-up of
    historical contamination. We are currently conducting
    investigation
    and/or
    remediation activities at a number of locations where we have
    known environmental concerns. In addition, we have been
    identified as one of many potentially responsible parties at
    four Superfund sites.



    
    16



Table of Contents




    We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and
    capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. In
    addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of
    existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown
    contamination or the imposition of new
    clean-up
    requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis
    for new or increased liabilities that could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    We are
    party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 


    We are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to
    recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from
    exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured
    and/or
    distributed by us. All such products were used as self-contained
    components of process equipment, and we do not believe that
    there was any emission of ambient asbestos-containing fiber
    during the use of this equipment. Although we are defending
    these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage
    of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from
    other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail
    or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would
    be adequate, and unfavorable rulings, judgments
    and/or
    settlement terms could adversely impact our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Our
    business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other
    labor matters.


 


    As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 13,000
    employees, approximately half of whom were located in the United
    States. Of our U.S. employees, approximately 7% are
    represented by unions. We also have unionized employees in
    Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Finland,
    France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain,
    Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Although we believe
    that our relations with our employees are good and we have not
    experienced any recent strikes or work stoppages, no assurances
    can be made that we will not in the future experience these and
    other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils,
    other groups representing employees, or our employees generally,
    or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not
    result in significant increases in the cost of labor.


 



    Inability
    to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our
    competitive position.


 


    We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks,
    trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing
    arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We
    cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to
    protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent
    misappropriation of our technology. For example, effective
    patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be
    unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which
    we operate. In addition, while we generally enter into
    confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties
    to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality
    agreements could be breached, and may not provide meaningful
    protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the
    design, manufacture or operation of our products. If it became
    necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our
    intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be
    burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. Furthermore,
    adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an
    unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and
    manufacturing expertise. If we fail to successfully enforce our
    intellectual property rights, our competitive position could
    suffer, which could harm our sales, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 



    Our
    success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to
    retain senior executives and other key personnel.


 


    During 2004 and 2005, we appointed a new Chief Executive
    Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Treasurer,
    Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, Chief Compliance
    Officer, Chief Information Officer, Vice President of Tax and a
    Vice President of Human Resources, and we created and staffed
    new positions responsible for accounting policy and procedures,
    financial reporting, tax compliance and internal audit. Our
    future success depends to a significant degree on the skills,
    experience and efforts of our newly appointed and existing
    senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the
    services of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
    or other key personnel could adversely affect our ability to
    implement our business strategy. To promote continuity of senior
    management, in March 2005 our Board of Directors approved a
    Transitional Executive Security



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Plan, which provides financial incentives to key management
    personnel to remain employed by us for the near term. No
    assurances can be made, however, that we will be successful in
    our efforts to retain key members of our senior management.


 



    If we are
    unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our
    operating margins and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    We purchase substantially all electric power and other raw
    materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from
    outside sources. The costs of these raw materials have been
    volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are
    outside our control. In recent years, the prices for energy,
    metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have
    increased, with the prices for energy currently exceeding
    historical averages. We also strive to offset our increased
    costs through Continuous Improvement Program (“CIP”),
    where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies. If we are
    unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials to
    our customers, our operating margins and results of operations
    may be adversely affected.


 



    Significant
    changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions
    relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the
    valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension
    plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension
    expense.


 


    We maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to
    be funded in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada,
    Japan, Mexico and The Netherlands, and defined benefit plans
    that are not required to be funded in Germany, France, Austria
    and Sweden. Our pension liability is materially affected by the
    discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in
    the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level
    of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the
    expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. A change in
    the discount rate can result in a significant increase or
    decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the
    reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense.
    Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the
    portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and
    decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the
    expected rate of return on plan assets. Changes in the expected
    return on plan assets assumption can result in significant
    changes in our pension expense. We currently expect to make
    substantial contributions to our U.S. and foreign defined
    benefit pension plans during the next three years, and may make
    additional substantial contributions thereafter.


 



    An
    exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities
    Act may not be available for certain acquisitions of interest in
    our common stock fund in the Flowserve Corporation Retirement
    Savings Plan (“401(k) plan”) which exposes us to
    potential liabilities, including rescission rights.


 


    As of May 1, 2005, due to the non-current status of our
    financial filings with the SEC, our Registration Statements on
    Form S-8
    were no longer available to cover offers and sales of securities
    to our employees and other persons. Since that date, the
    acquisition of interests in our common stock fund under our
    401(k) plan by plan participants may have been subject to the
    registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or
    applicable state securities laws and may not have qualified for
    an available exemption from such requirements. Federal
    securities laws generally provide for a one-year rescission
    right for an investor who acquires unregistered securities in a
    transaction that is subject to registration and for which no
    exemption was available. As such, an investor successfully
    asserting a rescission right during the one-year time period has
    the right to require an issuer to repurchase the securities
    acquired by the investor at the price paid by the investor for
    the securities (or if such security has been disposed of, to
    receive damages with respect to any loss on such disposition),
    plus interest from the date of acquisition. These rights may
    apply to affected participants in our 401(k) plan. Based on our
    current stock price, we believe that our current potential
    liability for rescission claims is not material to our financial
    condition or results of operations; however, our potential
    liability could become material in the future if our stock price
    were to fall below participants’ acquisition prices for
    their interest in our stock fund during the one-year period
    following the unregistered acquisitions.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    A
    significant number of stock option exercises following the
    removal of the current suspension on stock option exercises
    would have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share


 


    We have a substantial number of outstanding stock options
    granted in past years to employees under our stock option plans
    which have not been exercisable for an extended period due to
    our non-current filing status relating to our SEC financial
    reports. Given the significant increase in our share price
    during the period in which optionees have been unable to
    exercise their options, it is possible that many holders may
    want to exercise soon after they are first able to do so. If,
    following our removal of the current suspension on stock option
    exercises, the holders of a large number of these options
    promptly exercise, there would be some dilutive impact on our
    earnings per share. The impact on our earnings per share is
    dependent upon share price, number of shares and strike price of
    shares exercised.


 



    We may
    incur material costs as a result of product liability and
    warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in
    the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is
    alleged to result in, bodily injury
    and/or
    property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to
    perform as expected. While we maintain insurance coverage with
    respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able
    to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if
    at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage
    against product liability claims. In addition, product liability
    claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention
    of management and other personnel for significant periods of
    time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful
    defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse
    affect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending
    against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature
    could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and
    our company. Warranty claims are not covered by insurance, and
    we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which
    we would not be reimbursed.


 



    Our
    outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the
    agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and
    financial flexibility.


 


    We are required to make mandatory payments and, under certain
    circumstances, mandatory prepayments on our outstanding
    indebtedness which may require us to dedicate a substantial
    portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our
    indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash
    flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research
    and development efforts and other general corporate purposes and
    could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and in the industry.


 


    In addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities
    and our other outstanding indebtedness impose significant
    operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit
    management’s discretion in operating our businesses. These
    agreements limit our ability, among other things, to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional debt;



 


     
        • 

    
    make capital expenditures;



 


     
        • 

    
    change fiscal year;



 


     
        • 

    
    pay dividends and make other distributions;



 


     
        • 

    
    prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted
    payments;



 


     
        • 

    
    enter into sale and leaseback transactions;



 


     
        • 

    
    create liens;



 


     
        • 

    
    sell assets; and



 


     
        • 

    
    enter into transactions with affiliates.





 


    In addition, the credit facilities contain covenants requiring
    us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest coverage
    financial covenants and our audited annual and unaudited
    quarterly financial statements. Our ability to



    
    19



Table of Contents




    comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our
    control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in
    an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    not be able to continue to expand our market presence through
    acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen
    integration difficulties or costs.


 


    Since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions,
    and we may pursue acquisitions of businesses that are
    complementary to ours in the future. Our ability to implement
    this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify
    appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit
    agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources,
    including available cash and borrowing capacity. In addition,
    acquisition of businesses may require additional debt financing,
    resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest
    expense, and could result in the incurrence of contingent
    liabilities.


 


    Should we acquire another business, the process of integrating
    acquired operations into our existing operations may encounter
    operating difficulties and may require significant financial
    resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing
    development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the
    challenges associated with acquisitions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company;



 


     
        • 

    
    conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes,
    procedures and controls, including accounting systems and
    controls, with our operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic
    diversity and complexity;



 


     
        • 

    
    retooling and reprogramming of equipment;



 


     
        • 

    
    hiring additional management and other critical
    personnel; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the diversion of management’s attention from our
    day-to-day
    operations.





 


    Furthermore, no guarantees can be made that we will realize the
    cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may
    anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such
    benefits within the time frame that we expect. If we are not
    able to address the challenges associated with acquisitions and
    successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated
    product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance,
    our business could be adversely affected.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information is Subject to Risk and Uncertainty


 


    This Annual Report and other written reports and oral statements
    we make from
    time-to-time
    include “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements
    other than statements of historical facts included in this
    report regarding our financial position, business strategy,
    plans and objectives of management for future operations,
    industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant
    compliance are forward-looking statements. In some cases forward
    looking statements can be identified by terms such as
    “may,” “will,” “should,”
    “expect,” “plans,” “seeks,”
    “anticipate,” “believe,”
    “estimate,” “predicts,”
    “potential,” “continue,”
    “intends,” or other comparable terminology. These
    statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future
    performance but instead are based on current expectations and
    are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other
    factors, many of which are outside of our control.


 


    We have identified factors that could cause actual plans or
    results to differ materially from those included in any
    forward-looking statements. These factors include those
    described under the heading “Risk Factors” above, or
    as may be identified in our other SEC filings from time to time.
    These uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in
    many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the
    factors that may affect our future performance or any
    forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge
    from time to time. Given these risks and uncertainties, you
    should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as
    a prediction of actual results.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    All forward-looking statement included in this Annual Report are
    based on information available to us on the date of this Annual
    Report and the risk that actual results will differ materially
    from expectations expressed in this report will increase with
    the passage of time. We undertake no obligation, and disclaim
    any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
    statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that
    occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any
    forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new
    information, future events, changes in our expectations or
    otherwise. This discussion is provided as permitted by the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and all of our
    forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their
    entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in
    this section.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B