ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    Any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. If
    they do, our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known
    to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our
    business operations. Because of these risk factors, as well as
    other variables affecting our operating results, past financial
    performance may not be a reliable indicator of future
    performance, and historical trends should not be used to
    anticipate results or trends in future periods.


 



    We are
    currently subject to the appeal of dismissed securities class
    action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 


    A number of putative class action lawsuits were filed against
    us, certain of our former officers, our independent auditors and
    the lead underwriters of our most recent public stock offerings,
    alleging securities laws violations. By orders dated
    November 13, 2007 and January 4, 2008, the trial court
    granted summary judgment in favor of the Company and all other
    defendants on all of the plaintiffs’ claims. The trial
    court also denied the plaintiffs’ request for class
    certification. While the Company strongly believes that any
    appeal or other effort by the plaintiffs to overturn the trial
    court’s denial of class certification or entry of judgment
    would be without merit, and intends to oppose any such effort
    vigorously, we cannot determine with certainty the outcome or
    resolution of any effort to overturn these rulings. If the
    plaintiffs were successful in overturning the judgment and the
    case proceeded anew in the trial court, we could not determine
    with certainty the outcome of the plaintiffs’ claims or the
    timing for their resolution. In addition to the expense and
    burden we would incur in defending this litigation and any
    damages that we could suffer, our management’s efforts and
    attention could be diverted from the ordinary business
    operations in order to address these claims. If the final
    resolution of this litigation was unfavorable to us, our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could
    be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance
    coverage was unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter.


 



    Noncompliance
    with U.S. export control laws could materially adversely affect
    our business.


 


    In March 2006, we initiated a voluntary process to determine our
    compliance posture with respect to U.S. export control and
    economic sanctions laws and regulations. Upon initial
    investigation, it appeared that some product transactions and
    technology transfers were not handled in full compliance with
    U.S. export control laws and regulations. As a result, in
    conjunction with outside counsel, we are currently involved in a
    voluntary, systematic process to conduct further review,
    validation and voluntary disclosure of apparent export
    violations discovered as part of this review process. We have
    completed approximately three-fourths of the site visits
    scheduled as part of this voluntary disclosure process, but
    currently believe this process will not be substantially
    complete and the results of site visits will not be fully
    analyzed until the end of 2008, given the complexity of the
    export laws and the current global scope of the investigation.
    Any apparent violations of U.S. export control laws and
    regulations that are identified, confirmed and disclosed to the
    U.S. government may result in civil or criminal penalties,
    including fines
    and/or other
    penalties. Although companies making voluntary export
    disclosures have historically received reduced penalties and
    certain mitigating credits, legislation enacted on
    October 16, 2007 increased the maximum civil penalty for
    certain export control violations (assessed on a per-shipment
    basis) to the greater of $250,000 or twice the value of the
    transaction. While the Department of Commerce has stated that
    companies which had initiated voluntary self-disclosures prior
    to the enactment of this legislation generally would not be
    subjected to enhanced penalties retroactively, we are unable to
    determine at this time how other U.S. government agencies
    will apply this enhanced penalty legislation. Because our review
    into this issue is ongoing, we are currently unable to
    definitively determine the full extent of any apparent
    violations or the nature or total amount of penalties to which
    we might be subject to in the future. Given that the resolution
    of this matter is uncertain at this time, we are not able to
    reasonably estimate the ultimate amount of liability that could
    result from final resolution of this matter. We cannot currently
    predict whether the final resolution of this matter will have a
    material adverse effect on our business, including our ability
    to do business outside the U.S., our financial condition or our
    results of operations.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    We are
    subject to examination by various U.S., state and international
    taxing jurisdictions.


 


    We are subject to examination by various U.S., state, and
    international taxing jurisdictions, the results of which could
    result in negative outcomes that would require us to make
    additional tax payments that may be material.


 



    The
    recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances
    in the future could affect our operating results.


 


    We currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting
    from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses, and other
    deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce
    taxable income in future periods. Based on our assessment of our
    deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future
    income and certain available tax planning strategies, that
    approximately $191 million of our deferred tax assets will
    more likely than not be realized in the future and no valuation
    allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred
    tax assets. Should we determine in the future that these assets
    will not be realized, we will be required to record an
    additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred
    tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected
    in the period such determination is made.


 



    Economic,
    political and other risks associated with international
    operations could adversely affect our business.


 


    A substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located
    outside the U.S. We have manufacturing, sales or service
    facilities in more than 55 countries and sell to customers in
    over 70 countries, in addition to the U.S. Moreover, we
    outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions
    to, and source our raw materials and components from China,
    Eastern Europe, India, Latin America and Mexico. Accordingly,
    our business is subject to risks associated with doing business
    internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    instability in a specific country’s or region’s
    political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging
    markets and the Middle East;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import
    and export licensing and control requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables
    through some foreign legal systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    partial or total expropriation;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing protection of intellectual property;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to repatriate income or capital; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies,
    which may be different than the normal business practices of
    local cultures.





 


    For example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively
    impact the demand for our products from customers in affected
    countries and other customers, such as U.S. oil refineries,
    that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply
    of crude oil. Similarly, the military conflict in the Middle
    East could soften the level of capital investment and demand for
    our products and services. Additionally, we are investigating or
    have investigated certain allegations regarding foreign
    management engaging in unethical practices prohibited by our
    Code of Business Conduct, which could have inappropriately
    benefited them at the Company’s expense.


 


    We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, as a
    significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs,
    assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than
    U.S. dollar. The primary currencies to which



    
    13



Table of Contents




    we have exposure are the Euro, British pound, Australian dollar,
    Canadian dollar, Brazilian real, Singapore dollar, Swedish
    krona, Indian rupee and Colombian peso. Certain of the foreign
    currencies to which we have exposure, such as the Argentinean
    peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past.
    Although we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge
    our risks associated with transactions denominated in foreign
    currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate
    fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Our international operations are subject to a variety of laws
    and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act and regulations issued by the U.S. Customs
    and Border Protection, the U.S. Department of
    Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, the
    U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets
    Control and various foreign governmental agencies, including
    applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control
    and transfer pricing regulations and various programs
    administered by the United Nations, as applicable. No assurances
    can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in
    compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such
    laws or regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the nature,
    scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our
    international operations might be subject or the manner in which
    existing laws might be administered or interpreted.


 


    We are continuing our voluntary disclosure to applicable
    U.S. governmental authorities through an audit of our
    compliance with U.S. export control laws and are
    voluntarily self-disclosing any potential violations identified.
    Disclosure of any such violations could result in substantial
    fines and other penalties. See Item 3. “Legal
    Proceedings” for more information.


 


    In order to manage our
    day-to-day
    operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and
    assimilate different business practices. In addition, we are
    required to create compensation programs, employment policies
    and other administrative programs that comply with laws of
    multiple countries. We also must communicate and monitor
    standards and directives across our global network. Our failure
    to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations
    could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business
    and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards
    and procedures.


 


    Our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to
    anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks
    associated with our international operations. Any of these
    factors could, however, adversely affect our international
    operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results
    of operations and cash flows.


 



    Terrorist
    acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and
    revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock
    price.


 


    Terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the
    world) may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees,
    facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or
    customers. The potential for future attacks, the national and
    international responses to attacks or perceived threats to
    national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or
    wars, including the ongoing military operations in Iraq, have
    created many economic and political uncertainties. In addition,
    as a major multi-national company with headquarters and
    significant operations located in the U.S., actions against or
    by the U.S. may impact our business or employees. Although
    it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of
    any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for
    our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver
    products to our customers or to receive components from our
    suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain
    and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions.


 



    There
    are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of internal
    control over financial reporting.


 


    In connection with our 2007 assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002, our management concluded that as of
    December 31, 2007, our internal control over financial
    reporting was effective.


 


    While assessed as effective, because of its inherent
    limitations, there is a risk that internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    These inherent limitations include the possibility of human
    error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and
    procedures. Also, projections of any evaluation of



    
    14



Table of Contents




    effectiveness in internal control over financial reporting to
    future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with existing policies or internal control
    procedures may deteriorate.


 



    We may
    be unable to deliver our backlog on time which could affect our
    future sales and profitability and our relationships with
    customers.


 


    At December 31, 2007, backlog reached $2.3 billion. In
    2008, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for
    backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not
    limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, access to
    the raw materials and other inventory required for production,
    an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering
    expertise for certain large projects, and appropriate planning
    and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Many of the contracts
    we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead
    times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery.
    Failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations
    could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to
    existing customer relationships, could negatively impact our
    financial performance, and potentially cause adverse changes in
    the market price of our outstanding common stock.


 



    Our
    business depends on the levels of capital investment and
    maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are
    affected by the cyclical nature of their markets and their
    liquidity.


 


    Demand for most of our products depends on the level of new
    capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our
    customers. The level of capital expenditures by our customers
    depends, in turn, on the general economic conditions and their
    industries, and the expectations of future market behavior. The
    ability of our customers to finance capital investment and
    maintenance may be affected by factors independent of the
    conditions in their industry.


 


    The businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and
    gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial
    companies are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced
    periodic downturns. Our customers in these industries
    historically have tended to delay large capital projects,
    including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic
    downturns. For example, demand for our products and services
    from our general industrial customers, such as steel and pulp
    and paper manufacturers, was negatively impacted by the
    U.S. recession in the early part of this decade. Similarly,
    in response to high oil and natural gas prices and a weak demand
    for their products due to a soft economy, our chemical customers
    reduced their spending on capital investments and operated their
    facilities at lower levels, reducing demand for our products and
    services. Some of our customers may delay capital maintenance
    even during favorable conditions in their markets. For example,
    while high oil prices generally spur demand for our products and
    services in upstream petroleum markets, they may reduce demand
    for our products and services from oil refineries, as refiners
    seek to take advantage of favorable margins by operating at high
    levels of capacity utilization and deferring maintenance.


 


    The diminished demand for our products and services could lead
    to excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent accelerated
    erosion of average selling prices in our industry, which could
    adversely affect our business, results of operations, including
    profit margins, financial condition, and cash flows.


 



    We
    sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results
    in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to
    maintain or increase the market share of our
    products.


 


    The markets for our products are fragmented and highly
    competitive. We compete against large and well-established
    national and global companies, as well as regional and local
    companies, low cost replicators of spare parts and in-house
    maintenance departments of our end user customers. We compete
    based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery,
    contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation
    for quality and reliability. Some of our customers are
    attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they
    purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their
    inventory. To remain competitive, we will need to invest
    continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and
    support, and our distribution networks. No assurances can be
    made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make
    the investment required to maintain or increase our



    
    15



Table of Contents




    market share or that our investments will be successful. If we
    do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.


 



    Environmental
    compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our operations and properties are subject to regulation under
    environmental laws. These laws can impose substantial sanctions
    for violations or operational changes. We must conform our
    operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to
    changes in such requirements in all countries in which we
    operate.


 


    We use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in
    many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. Most of our
    current and former properties are or have been used for
    industrial purposes, and some may require
    clean-up of
    historical contamination. We are currently conducting
    investigation
    and/or
    remediation activities at a number of locations where we have
    known environmental concerns. In addition, we have been
    identified as one of many potentially responsible parties at
    four Superfund sites. The projected cost of remediation at these
    sites, as well as our alleged “fair share” allocation
    has been reserved. However, until all studies have been
    completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable
    resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some
    degree of uncertainty remains.


 


    We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and
    capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. In
    addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of
    existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown
    contamination or the imposition of new
    clean-up
    requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis
    for new or increased liabilities that could have a potential
    adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 



    We are
    party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 


    We are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to
    recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from
    exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured
    and/or
    distributed by us. All such products were used as components of
    process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any
    significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the
    use of this equipment. Although we are defending these
    allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of
    these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from
    other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail
    or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would
    be adequate. Unfavorable rulings, judgments
    and/or
    settlement terms could have a potential adverse impact on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    Our
    business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other
    labor matters.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    15,000 employees, of which approximately 5,500 were located
    in the U.S. Approximately 7% of our U.S. employees are
    represented by unions. We also have unionized employees or
    employee work councils in Argentina, Australia, Austria,
    Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan,
    Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the
    United Kingdom. Although we believe that our relations with our
    employees are strong and we have not experienced any material
    strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made
    that we will not in the future experience these and other types
    of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups
    representing employees, or our employees generally, or that any
    future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in
    significant increases in the cost of labor. No unionized
    facility produces more than 10% of our revenues.


 



    Inability
    to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our
    competitive position.


 


    We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks,
    trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing
    arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We
    cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to
    protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent
    misappropriation of our technology. For example, effective
    patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be
    unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which
    we operate. In addition, while we generally enter into
    confidentiality



    
    16



Table of Contents




    agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our
    intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be
    breached, and may not provide meaningful protection for our
    trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or
    operation of our products. If it became necessary for us to
    resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property
    rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we
    may not prevail. Furthermore, adequate remedies may not be
    available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of
    our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. If we fail to
    successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our
    competitive position could suffer, which could harm our sales,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    If we
    are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our
    operating margins and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    We purchase substantially all electric power and other raw
    materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from
    outside sources. The costs of these raw materials have been
    volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are
    outside our control. In recent years, the prices for energy,
    metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have
    been excessively volatile. Additionally, as well as the prices
    for energy currently exceed historical averages. We strive to
    offset our increased costs through our Continuous Improvement
    Process (“CIP”) initiative, where gains are achieved
    in operational efficiencies. If we are unable to pass increases
    in the costs of our raw materials to our customers, our
    operating margins and results of operations may be adversely
    affected if operational efficiencies are not achieved. To ensure
    sustained success in CIP achievements, constant training and the
    expansion of CIP projects are a vital strategy within our
    operations.


 



    Significant
    changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions
    relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the
    valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension
    plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension
    expense.


 


    We maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to
    be funded in the U.S., the United Kingdom, India, Japan, Mexico
    and the Netherlands, and defined benefit plans that are not
    required to be funded in Germany, France, Austria and Sweden.
    Our pension liability is materially affected by the discount
    rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of
    the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan
    assets available to fund those obligations and the expected
    long-term rate of return on plan assets. A change in the
    discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease
    in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported
    status of our pension plans and our pension expense. Significant
    changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio
    mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in
    the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate
    of return on plan assets. Changes in the expected return on plan
    assets assumption can result in significant changes in our
    pension expense. We currently expect to make substantial
    contributions to our U.S. and foreign defined benefit
    pension plans during the next three years, and may make
    additional substantial contributions thereafter. In addition,
    pension reform legislation was passed in late 2006 which
    included minimum funding requirements effective for 2008. We are
    reviewing our funding policy related to our U.S. pension
    plan in accordance with the new law.


 



    We may
    incur material costs as a result of product liability and
    warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in
    the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is
    alleged to result in, bodily injury
    and/or
    property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to
    perform as expected. While we maintain insurance coverage with
    respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able
    to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and
    any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against
    product liability claims. In addition, product liability claims
    can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of
    management and other personnel for significant periods of time,
    regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a
    product liability claim could have an adverse affect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition and cash
    flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim
    relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our
    customers to lose confidence in our products and our Company.
    Warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we
    may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we
    would not be reimbursed.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    Our
    outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the
    agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and
    financial flexibility.


 


    We are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain
    circumstances, mandatory prepayments on our outstanding
    indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial
    portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our
    indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash
    flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research
    and development efforts and other general corporate purposes and
    could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and in the industry.


 


    In addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities
    impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and
    somewhat limit management’s discretion in operating our
    businesses. These agreements limit our ability, among other
    things, to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    change fiscal year;




 



     
        • 

    
    pay dividends and make other distributions;




 



     
        • 

    
    prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted
    payments;




 



     
        • 

    
    enter into sale and leaseback transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    create liens;




 



     
        • 

    
    sell assets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    enter into transactions with affiliates.





 


    In addition, our bank credit facilities contain covenants
    requiring us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest
    coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and
    unaudited quarterly financial statements. Our ability to comply
    with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our
    control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in
    an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    not be able to continue to expand our market presence through
    acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen
    integration difficulties or costs.


 


    Since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions,
    and we may pursue acquisitions of businesses that are
    complementary to ours in the future. Our ability to implement
    this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify
    appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit
    agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources,
    including available cash and borrowing capacity. In addition,
    acquisition of businesses may require additional debt financing,
    resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest
    expense, and could result in the incurrence of contingent
    liabilities.


 


    Should we acquire another business, the process of integrating
    acquired operations into our existing operations may encounter
    operating difficulties and may require significant financial
    resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing
    development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the
    challenges associated with acquisitions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company;




 



     
        • 

    
    conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes,
    procedures and controls, including accounting systems and
    controls, with our operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic
    diversity and complexity;




 



     
        • 

    
    retooling and reprogramming of equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    hiring additional management and other critical
    personnel; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the diversion of management’s attention from our
    day-to-day
    operations.






    
    18



Table of Contents



 


    Furthermore, no guarantees can be made that we will realize the
    cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may
    anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such
    benefits within the time frame that we expect. If we are not
    able to timely address the challenges associated with
    acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or
    if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve
    market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information is Subject to Risk and Uncertainty


 


    This Annual Report and other written reports and oral statements
    we make from
    time-to-time
    include “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements
    other than statements of historical facts included in this
    Annual Report regarding our financial position, business
    strategy, plans and objectives of management for future
    operations, industry conditions, market conditions and
    indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements.
    In some cases forward looking statements can be identified by
    terms such as “may,” “will,”
    “should,” “expect,” “plans,”
    “seeks,” “anticipate,” “believe,”
    “estimate,” “predicts,”
    “potential,” “continue,”
    “intends,” or other comparable terminology. These
    statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future
    performance but instead are based on current expectations and
    are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other
    factors, many of which are outside of our control.


 


    We have identified factors that could cause actual plans or
    results to differ materially from those included in any
    forward-looking statements. These factors include those
    described under the heading “Risk Factors” above, or
    as may be identified in our other SEC filings from time to time.
    These uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in
    many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the
    factors that may affect our future performance or any
    forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge
    from time to time. Given these risks and uncertainties, you
    should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as
    a prediction of actual results.


 


    All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report
    are based on information available to us on the date of this
    Annual Report and the risk that actual results will differ
    materially from expectations expressed in this report will
    increase with the passage of time. We undertake no obligation,
    and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any
    forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or
    circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect
    the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a
    result of new information, future events, changes in our
    expectations or otherwise. This discussion is provided as
    permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly
    qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements
    contained or referenced in this section.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B