ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    Any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. If
    they do, our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known
    to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our
    business operations.


 



    We are
    currently subject to securities class action litigation, the
    unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 


    A number of putative class action lawsuits have been filed
    against us, certain of our former officers, our independent
    auditors and the lead underwriters of our most recent public
    stock offerings, alleging securities laws violations. We believe
    that these lawsuits, which have been consolidated, are without
    merit and are vigorously defending them and have notified our
    applicable insurers. We cannot, however, determine with
    certainty the outcome or resolution of these claims or the
    timing for their resolution. The consolidated securities case is
    currently set for trial on October 1, 2007. In addition to
    the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and
    any damages that we may suffer, our management’s efforts
    and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business
    operations in order to address these claims. If the final
    resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might
    be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance
    coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter.


 



    The
    ongoing SEC and foreign government investigation regarding our
    participation in the United Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program could materially adversely affect our
    Company.


 


    On February 7, 2006, we received a subpoena from the SEC
    seeking documents and information relating primarily to products
    that two of our foreign subsidiaries delivered to Iraq from 1996
    through 2003 under the United Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program. We believe that the SEC’s investigation is focused
    primarily on whether any inappropriate payments were made to
    Iraqi officials in violation of the federal securities laws. The
    investigation includes periods prior to, as well as subsequent
    to, our acquisition of the foreign operations involved in the
    investigation. We may be subject to certain liabilities if
    violations are found regardless of whether they relate to
    periods before or subsequent to our acquisition.


 


    In addition, the two foreign subsidiaries have been contacted by
    governmental authorities in their respective countries
    concerning their involvement in the United Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program. We are unable to predict how the foreign governmental
    authorities will pursue either of these matters in the future.
    We believe that the SEC and the foreign governmental authorities
    are also investigating other companies in connection with the
    United Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program.


 


    We engaged outside counsel in February 2006 to conduct an
    investigation of our foreign subsidiaries’ participation in
    the United Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    program. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has been
    regularly monitoring this situation since the receipt of the SEC
    subpoena and assumed direct oversight of the investigation in
    January 2007. We currently expect the investigation will be
    completed during the second quarter of 2007.


 


    Our investigation has included, among other things, a detailed
    review of contracts with the Iraqi government under the United
    Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program during 1996 through 2003, a forensic review of the
    accounting



    
    12



Table of Contents




    records associated with these contracts, and interviews of
    persons with knowledge of the events in question. Our
    investigation has found evidence to date that, during the years
    2001 through 2003, certain
    non-U.S. personnel
    at the two foreign subsidiaries authorized payments in
    connection with certain of our product sales under the
    United Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program totaling approximately €0.6 million, which
    were subsequently deposited by a third party into
    Iraqi-controlled bank accounts. These payments were not
    authorized under the United Nations
    Oil-for-Food
    Program and were not properly documented in the
    subsidiaries’ accounting records but were expensed as paid.
    During the course of the investigation, certain other potential
    issues involving
    non-U.S. personnel
    were identified at one of the foreign subsidiaries, which are
    currently under review.


 


    We have taken certain disciplinary actions against persons who
    engaged in wrongful conduct, violated our ethics policies or
    failed to cooperate fully in the investigation, including
    terminating the employment of certain
    non-U.S. senior
    management personnel at one of the foreign subsidiaries. Certain
    other
    non-U.S. senior
    management personnel at that facility involved in the above
    conduct had been previously separated from the Company for other
    reasons.


 


    We will continue to fully cooperate in both the SEC and the
    foreign investigations. The investigations are in progress but,
    at this point, are incomplete. Accordingly, if the SEC and/or
    the foreign authorities take enforcement action with regard to
    these investigations, we may be required to pay fines, disgorge
    profits, consent to injunctions against future conduct or suffer
    other penalties which could potentially materially impact our
    business, financial condition results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    Potential
    noncompliance with U.S. export control laws could
    materially adversely affect our business.


 


    We have notified applicable U.S. governmental authorities
    of our ongoing investigation, analysis, and voluntary disclosure
    of certain apparent past violations of the U.S. export
    control laws, subject to further analysis and verification,
    through, in general, the export and reexport of products,
    services and technologies without the licenses that may be
    required by such authorities. If any apparent violations are
    identified, confirmed and voluntarily disclosed as part of our
    investigation, which is being conducted in conjunction with
    outside counsel, we could be subject to substantial fines and
    other penalties affecting our ability to do business outside the
    United States.


 


    Our risks involved in conducting our international business
    operations include, without limitation, the risks associated
    with certain of our foreign subsidiaries autonomously
    conducting, under their own local authority and consistent with
    U.S. export laws, business operations and sales, which
    constitute approximately 1% to 2% of our consolidated global
    revenue, in Iran, Syria and Sudan, which have each been
    designated by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors
    of terrorism. Due to the growing political uncertainties
    associated with these countries, we have begun our voluntary
    withdrawal, on a phased basis, from conducting new business in
    these countries. These subsidiaries may continue to honor
    certain existing contracts, commitments and warranty obligations
    that are in compliance with U.S. laws and local and
    regulations.


 



    The
    Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) is auditing our tax
    returns, and a negative outcome of the audit would require us to
    make additional tax payments that may be material.


 


    The IRS substantially concluded its audit of our
    U.S. federal income tax returns for the years 1999-2001
    during December, 2005. Based on its audit work, the IRS has
    issued proposed adjustments to increase taxable income during
    1999 through 2001 by $12.8 million, and to deny foreign tax
    credits of $2.4 million in the aggregate. The tax liability
    resulting from these proposed adjustments will be offset with
    foreign tax credit carryovers and other refund claims, which
    were approved by the Joint Committee on Taxation on
    July 24, 2006, and therefore should not result in a
    material future cash payment The effect of the adjustments to
    current and deferred taxes has been reflected in previously
    filed consolidated financial statements for the applicable
    periods.


 


    During the third quarter of 2006, the IRS commenced an audit of
    our U.S. federal income tax returns for the years 2002
    through 2004. While we expect the current IRS audit to be
    similar in scope to the recently completed examination, this
    audit may be broader. Furthermore, the results from the audit of
    1999 through 2001 are not indicative of the future result of the
    audit of 2002 through 2004. The audit of 2002 through 2004 may
    result in additional tax payments by us, the amount of which may
    or may not be material, but will not be known until that IRS



    
    13



Table of Contents




    audit is finalized. We do not anticipate that the audit of 2002
    through 2004 will be completed prior to the third quarter
    of 2008, and may extend past such quarter, depending on the
    issues raised by IRS with respect to such years.


 


    In the course of the tax audit for the years 1999 through 2001,
    we have identified record keeping and other material internal
    control weaknesses, which caused us to incur significant expense
    to substantiate our tax return items and address information and
    document requests made by the IRS. Due to these record keeping
    issues, the IRS has issued us a Notice of Inadequate Records for
    the years 1999 through 2001 and may issue a similar notice for
    the years 2002 through 2004. While the IRS has agreed not to
    assess penalties for inadequacy of records with respect to the
    years 1999 through 2001, no assurances can be made that the IRS
    will not seek to assess such penalties or other types of
    penalties with respect to the years 2002 through 2004. Such
    penalties could result in a material impact to the consolidated
    results of operations. Additionally, the record keeping issues
    noted above may result in future U.S. state and local tax
    assessments of tax, penalties and interest which could have a
    material impact to the consolidated results of operations.


 



    The
    recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances
    in the future could affect our operating results.


 


    We currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting
    from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses, and other
    deductible temporary differences which are available to reduce
    taxable income in future periods. Based on our assessment of our
    deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future
    income and certain available tax planning strategies, that
    $210 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely
    than not be realized in the future and no valuation allowance is
    currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets.
    Should we determine in the future that these assets will not be
    realized, we will be required to record an additional valuation
    allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our
    operating results would be adversely affected in the period such
    determination is made.


 



    Economic,
    political and other risks associated with international
    operations could adversely affect our business.


 


    A substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located
    outside the U.S. We have manufacturing or service
    facilities in 31 countries and sell to customers in over 70
    countries, in addition to the United States. Moreover, we
    outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions
    to, and source our raw materials and components from China,
    Eastern Europe, India, Latin America and Mexico. Accordingly,
    our business is subject to risks associated with doing business
    internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    instability in a specific country’s or region’s
    political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging
    markets and the Middle East;



 


     
        • 

    
    trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import
    and export licensing and control requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables
    through some foreign legal systems;



 


     
        • 

    
    differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations;



 


     
        • 

    
    partial or total expropriation;



 


     
        • 

    
    differing protection of intellectual property;



 


     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    inability to repatriate income or capital; and






    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies,
    which may be different than the normal business practices of
    local cultures.





 


    For example, political unrest and a two-month nation-wide work
    stoppage in Venezuela in 2002 negatively impacted demand for our
    products from customers in that country and other customers,
    such as U.S. oil refineries, that were affected by the
    resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. Similarly, the
    military conflict in the 2003 Middle East softened the level of
    capital investment and demand for our products and services in
    that region, notwithstanding the historically high prices for
    oil. Additionally we are investigating or have investigated
    certain allegations regarding foreign management engaging in
    unethical practices prohibited by our Code of Business Conduct
    which could have inappropriately benefited them at Company
    expense.


 


    We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, as a
    significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs,
    assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than
    U.S. dollar. The primary foreign currencies to which we
    have exposure are the Euro, British pound, Indian rupee, Swiss
    franc, Singapore dollar, Mexican peso and Canadian dollar.
    Certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure,
    such as the Argentinean peso, have undergone significant
    devaluation in the past. Although we enter into forward
    contracts to economically hedge our risks associated with
    transactions denominated in foreign currencies, no assurances
    can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely
    affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our international operations are subject to a variety of laws
    and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act and regulations issued by the U.S. Customs
    Service, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Office of
    Foreign Assets Control and various foreign governmental
    agencies, including applicable export controls, customs,
    currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations and
    various programs administered by the United Nations, as
    applicable. No assurances can be made that we will continue to
    be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to
    detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. In addition,
    we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future
    regulatory requirements to which our international operations
    might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be
    administered or interpreted.


 


    We are continuing our voluntary disclosure to applicable
    U.S. governmental authorities through an audit of our
    compliance with the U.S. export control laws and will
    voluntarily self-disclosure of any potential violations
    identified. If any violations are identified, then such
    disclosure could result in substantial fines and other
    penalties. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for
    more information.


 


    In order to manage our
    day-to-day
    operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and
    assimilate different business practices. In addition, we are
    required to create compensation programs, employment policies
    and other administrative programs that comply with laws of
    multiple countries. We also must communicate and monitor
    standards and directives across our global network. Our failure
    to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations
    could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business
    and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards
    and procedures.


 


    Our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to
    anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks
    associated with our international operations. Any of these
    factors could, however, adversely affect our international
    operations and, consequently, our results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows.


 



    There
    are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of internal
    control over financial reporting.


 


    In connection with our 2006 assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002, our management concluded that as of December 31, 2006,
    our internal control over financial reporting was effective.


 


    While assessed as effective, because of its inherent
    limitations, there is a risk that internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    These inherent limitations include the possibility of human
    error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and
    procedures. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
    in internal control over financial reporting to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with existing policies or internal control procedures
    may deteriorate.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    We may
    be unable to deliver our backlog on time which could affect our
    future sales and profitability
    and our relationships with customers.


 


    At December 31, 2006, backlog reached $1.6 billion. In
    2007, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for
    backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not
    limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, access to
    the raw materials and other inventory required for production,
    an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering
    expertise for certain large projects, and appropriate planning
    and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Many of the contracts
    we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead
    times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery.
    Failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations
    could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to
    existing customer relationships, could negatively impact our
    financial performance, and potentially cause adverse changes in
    the market price of our outstanding common stock.


 



    Our
    business depends on the levels of capital investment and
    maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are
    affected by the cyclical nature of their markets and their
    liquidity.


 


    Demand for most of our products depends on the level of new
    capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our
    customers. The level of capital expenditures by our customers
    depends, in turn, on the general economic conditions and their
    industries, and the expectations of future market behavior.


 


    The businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and
    gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial
    companies are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced
    periodic downturns. Our customers in these industries
    historically have tended to delay large capital projects,
    including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic
    downturns. For example, demand for our products and services
    from our general industrial customers, such as steel and pulp
    and paper manufacturers, was negatively impacted by the
    U.S. recession in the early part of this decade. Similarly,
    in response to high oil and natural gas prices and a weak demand
    for their products due to the soft economy, during the past
    several years our chemical customers reduced their spending on
    capital investments and operated their facilities at lower
    levels, reducing demand for our products and services. Some of
    our customers may delay capital maintenance even during
    favorable conditions in their markets. For example, while high
    oil prices generally spur demand for our products and services
    in upstream petroleum markets, they often reduce demand for our
    products and services from oil refineries, as refiners seek to
    take advantage of favorable margins by operating at high levels
    of capacity utilization and deferring maintenance.


 


    The ability of our customers to finance capital investment and
    maintenance may be affected by factors independent of the
    conditions in their industry.


 


    Recently, amid increasing demand for crude and its derivatives
    and the tight market conditions, oil refineries have been
    scheduling maintenance activities and upgrading equipment to
    meet environmental regulations. In addition, chemical companies
    had been able to invest and maintain their equipment as they
    pass through the price increases to the end user. This recent
    evidence suggests a potential change in how the customer
    response to market conditions may impact our business activities.


 


    The diminished demand for our products and services could lead
    to excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent accelerated
    erosion of average selling prices in our industry, which could
    adversely affect our business, results of operations, including
    profit margins, financial condition, and cash flows.


 



    We
    sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results
    in pressure on our profit margins and
    limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of
    our products.


 


    The markets for our products are fragmented and highly
    competitive. We compete against large and well-established
    national and global companies, as well as regional and local
    companies, low cost replicators of spare parts and in-house
    maintenance departments of our end user customers. We compete
    based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery
    contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation
    for quality and reliability, with price competition tending to
    be more significant for sales to original equipment
    manufacturers. Some of our customers are attempting to reduce
    the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to
    reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. To remain
    competitive, we will need to invest continuously in



    
    16



Table of Contents




    manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our
    distribution networks. No assurances can be made that we will
    have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment
    required to maintain or increase our market share or that our
    investments will be successful. If we do not compete
    successfully, our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.


 



    Environmental
    compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 


    Our operations and properties are subject to extensive
    regulation under environmental laws. These laws can impose
    substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes that
    may limit production. We must conform our operations to
    applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such
    requirements in all countries in which we operate.


 


    We use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in
    many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. Most of our
    current and former properties are or have been used for
    industrial purposes, and some may require
    clean-up of
    historical contamination. We are currently conducting
    investigation
    and/or
    remediation activities at a number of locations where we have
    known environmental concerns. In addition, we have been
    identified as one of many potentially responsible parties at
    four Superfund sites. The projected cost of remediation at these
    sites, as well as our alleged “fair share” allocation,
    is uncertain and speculative until all studies have been
    completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable
    resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved.


 


    We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and
    capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. In
    addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of
    existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown
    contamination or the imposition of new
    clean-up
    requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis
    for new or increased liabilities that could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    We are
    party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could
    adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 


    We are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to
    recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from
    exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured
    and/or
    distributed by us. All such products were used as self-contained
    components of process equipment, and we do not believe that
    there was any significant emission of ambient
    asbestos-containing fiber during the use of this equipment.
    Although we are defending these allegations vigorously and
    believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by
    insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no
    assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by
    insurance or such other companies would be adequate, and
    unfavorable rulings, judgments
    and/or
    settlement terms could adversely impact our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Our
    business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other
    labor matters.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 14,000
    employees, approximately half of whom were located in the
    U.S. Of our U.S. employees, approximately 7% are
    represented by unions. We also have unionized employees in
    Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Finland,
    France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain,
    Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Although we believe
    that our relations with our employees are good and we have not
    experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no
    assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience
    these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works
    councils, other groups representing employees, or our employees
    generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions
    will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor.


 



    Inability
    to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our
    competitive position.


 


    We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks,
    trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing
    arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We
    cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to
    protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent
    misappropriation of our technology. For example, effective
    patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be
    unavailable or limited in



    
    17



Table of Contents




    some of the foreign countries in which we operate. In addition,
    while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with
    our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual
    property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached, and
    may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and
    know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our
    products. If it became necessary for us to resort to litigation
    to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings
    could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail.
    Furthermore, adequate remedies may not be available in the event
    of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and
    manufacturing expertise. If we fail to successfully enforce our
    intellectual property rights, our competitive position could
    suffer, which could harm our sales, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 



    If we
    are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our
    operating margins and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    We purchase substantially all electric power and other raw
    materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from
    outside sources. The costs of these raw materials have been
    volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are
    outside our control. In recent years, the prices for energy,
    metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have
    increased, with the prices for energy currently exceeding
    historical averages. We also strive to offset our increased
    costs through Continuous Improvement Process (“CIP”)
    initiative, where gains are achieved in operational
    efficiencies. If we are unable to pass increases in the costs of
    our raw materials to our customers, our operating margins and
    results of operations may be adversely affected.


 



    Significant
    changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions
    relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the
    valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension
    plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension
    expense.


 


    We maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to
    be funded in the U.S., the United Kingdom, India, Japan, Mexico
    and the Netherlands, and defined benefit plans that are not
    required to be funded in Germany, France, Austria and Sweden.
    Our pension liability is materially affected by the discount
    rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of
    the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan
    assets available to fund those obligations and the expected
    long-term rate of return on plan assets. A change in the
    discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease
    in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported
    status of our pension plans and our pension expense. Significant
    changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio
    mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in
    the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate
    of return on plan assets. Changes in the expected return on plan
    assets assumption can result in significant changes in our
    pension expense. We currently expect to make substantial
    contributions to our U.S. and foreign defined benefit pension
    plans during the next three years, and may make additional
    substantial contributions thereafter. In addition, pension
    reform legislation was passed in late 2006 which included
    minimum funding requirements effective for 2008. We are
    reviewing our funding policy related to the U.S. Pension
    Plan in accordance with the new law.


 



    We may
    continue to have exposure to liabilities arising from our
    failure to maintain registration under the Securities Act for
    certain acquisitions of interest in our common stock fund in the
    Flowserve Corporation Retirement Savings Plan (“401(k)
    plan”).


 


    Between May 1, 2005 and September 29, 2006 (the
    “Relevant Period”), due to the then non-current status
    of our filings with the SEC in accordance with the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, our registration statement on
    Form S-8
    was not available to cover offers and sales of securities to our
    employees and other persons. As a result, the acquisition of
    securities by the 401(k) plan on behalf of participants in our
    401(k) Plan during the Relevant Period did not comply with the
    registration requirements of the Securities Act. During the
    Relevant Period units of interest (“Units”)
    representing a total of 464,033 shares of our common stock
    were purchased on behalf of participants in our 401(k) Plan
    through application of: (i) salary reduction contributions
    from employees, (ii) fixed matching source funds from
    Flowserve and (iii) intra-plan transfers of funds by
    participants out of other investments in the 401(k) Plan into
    Units. Our failure to maintain the effectiveness of our
    registration statement on
    Form S-8
    gave the participants who directed the 401(k) Plan to purchase
    Units during the Relevant Period the right to rescind these
    purchases (or recover damages if they had sold their Units) for
    up to one year under federal law following the



    
    18



Table of Contents




    purchase of these Units. In order to address this compliance
    issue, we conducted a rescission offering that expired on
    January 8, 2007. Under the terms of the rescission
    offering, we made payments to participants who accepted the
    offer and who had sold shares acquired during the Relevant
    Period at a loss. We also acquired shares from accepting
    participants who had acquired shares during the Relevant Period
    at a price (together with interest at the applicable state rate)
    that exceeded the closing price of a share of our common stock
    on January 8, 2007 ($48.98). Participants from whom we
    acquired shares in the rescission offering received the
    acquisition price they paid for their shares, together with
    interest. We paid a total of $386,750.59 to accepting
    participants (which included $15,557.95 for shares sold at a
    loss, and $371,192.64 as acquisition price (i.e.,
    participant’s actual cost) and interest) for the
    6,766 shares we acquired from participants pursuant to this
    rescission offering.


 


    It is unclear, however, whether or not participants in our
    401(k) plan continue to have any rescission rights under the
    federal securities laws following the expiration of the
    rescission offering. It is the view of the SEC staff that a
    right of rescission created under the Securities Act may survive
    a rescission offer. However, federal courts in the past have
    ruled that a person who rejects or fails to accept a rescission
    offer is precluded from later seeking similar relief. The
    remedies and statute of limitations under state securities laws
    vary and depend upon the state in which the shares were
    purchased. We believe, however, that the acquisitions of Units
    made on behalf of participants during the Relevant Period were
    exempt from state registration requirements.


 


    Based upon our current stock price, we believe that our current
    potential liability for rescission claims is not material to our
    financial condition or results of operations; however, our
    potential liability could become material in the future if our
    stock price were to fall below participants’ acquisition
    prices for their interest in our stock fund during the one-year
    period following the unregistered acquisitions and if it were
    determined by competent legal authorities that our rescission
    offering did not effectively terminate the rights of
    participants to seek rescission.


 



    We may
    incur material costs as a result of product liability and
    warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in
    the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is
    alleged to result in, bodily injury
    and/or
    property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to
    perform as expected. While we maintain insurance coverage with
    respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able
    to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if
    at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage
    against product liability claims. In addition, product liability
    claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention
    of management and other personnel for significant periods of
    time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful
    defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse
    affect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending
    against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature
    could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and
    our company. Warranty claims are not generally covered by
    insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the
    future for which we would not be reimbursed.


 



    Our
    outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the
    agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and
    financial flexibility.


 


    We are required to make mandatory payments and, under certain
    circumstances, mandatory prepayments on our outstanding
    indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial
    portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our
    indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash
    flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research
    and development efforts and other general corporate purposes and
    could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and in the industry.


 


    In addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities
    impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and
    somewhat limit management’s discretion in operating our
    businesses. These agreements limit our ability, among other
    things, to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional debt;



 


     
        • 

    
    make capital expenditures;



 


     
        • 

    
    change fiscal year;






    
    19



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pay dividends and make other distributions;



 


     
        • 

    
    prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted
    payments;



 


     
        • 

    
    enter into sale and leaseback transactions;



 


     
        • 

    
    create liens;



 


     
        • 

    
    sell assets; and



 


     
        • 

    
    enter into transactions with affiliates.





 


    In addition, our bank credit facilities contain covenants
    requiring us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest
    coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and
    unaudited quarterly financial statements. Our ability to comply
    with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our
    control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in
    an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    not be able to continue to expand our market presence through
    acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen
    integration difficulties or costs.


 


    Since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions,
    and we may pursue acquisitions of businesses that are
    complementary to ours in the future. Our ability to implement
    this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify
    appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit
    agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources,
    including available cash and borrowing capacity. In addition,
    acquisition of businesses may require additional debt financing,
    resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest
    expense, and could result in the incurrence of contingent
    liabilities.


 


    Should we acquire another business, the process of integrating
    acquired operations into our existing operations may encounter
    operating difficulties and may require significant financial
    resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing
    development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the
    challenges associated with acquisitions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company;



 


     
        • 

    
    conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes,
    procedures and controls, including accounting systems and
    controls, with our operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic
    diversity and complexity;



 


     
        • 

    
    retooling and reprogramming of equipment;



 


     
        • 

    
    hiring additional management and other critical
    personnel; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the diversion of management’s attention from our
    day-to-day
    operations.





 


    Furthermore, no guarantees can be made that we will realize the
    cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may
    anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such
    benefits within the time frame that we expect. If we are not
    able to timely address the challenges associated with
    acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or
    if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve
    market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information is Subject to Risk and Uncertainty


 


    This Annual Report and other written reports and oral statements
    we make from
    time-to-time
    include “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements
    other than statements of historical facts included in this
    Annual Report regarding our financial position, business
    strategy, plans and objectives of management for future
    operations, industry conditions, market conditions and
    indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements.
    In some cases forward looking statements can be identified by
    terms such as “may,” “will,”
    “should,” “expect,” “plans,”
    “seeks,” “anticipate,” “believe,”
    “estimate,” “predicts,”



    
    20



Table of Contents




    “potential,” “continue,”
    “intends,” or other comparable terminology. These
    statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future
    performance but instead are based on current expectations and
    are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other
    factors, many of which are outside of our control.


 


    We have identified factors that could cause actual plans or
    results to differ materially from those included in any
    forward-looking statements. These factors include those
    described under the heading “Risk Factors” above, or
    as may be identified in our other SEC filings from time to time.
    These uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in
    many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the
    factors that may affect our future performance or any
    forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge
    from time to time. Given these risks and uncertainties, you
    should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as
    a prediction of actual results.


 


    All forward-looking statement included in this Annual Report are
    based on information available to us on the date of this Annual
    Report and the risk that actual results will differ materially
    from expectations expressed in this report will increase with
    the passage of time. We undertake no obligation, and disclaim
    any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
    statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that
    occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any
    forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new
    information, future events, changes in our expectations or
    otherwise. This discussion is provided as permitted by the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and all of our
    forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their
    entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in
    this section.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B