ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS Below lists our risk factors updated for these events.Among the factors that could have an impact on our ability to achieve operating results and meet our other goals are:Industry Risks:Pricing and volumes in our markets are sensitive to a number of industry specific and global issues and events including:•Capacity utilization - Our businesses are sensitive to industry capacity utilization. As a result, pricing tends to fluctuate when capacity utilization changes occur within our industry.•Competition - All of our segments face competition, which could affect our ability to maintain or raise prices, successfully enter certain markets or retain our market position. Competition for our FMC Agricultural Solutions business, includes not only generic suppliers of the same pesticidal active ingredients, but also alternative proprietary pesticide chemistries, and crop protection technologies that are bred into or applied onto seeds. Increased generic presence in agricultural 12Table of Contentschemical markets has been driven by the number of significant product patents and product data protections that have expired in the last decade, and this trend is expected to continue.•Changes in our customer base - Our customer base has the potential to change, especially when long-term supply contracts are renegotiated. Our FMC Lithium and FMC Health and Nutrition businesses are most sensitive to this risk.•Climatic conditions - Our FMC Agricultural Solutions markets are affected by climatic conditions, which could adversely impact crop pricing and pest infestations. Adverse weather conditions can impact our ability to extract lithium efficiently from our lithium reserves in Argentina. Natural disasters can impact production at our facilities in various parts of the world. The nature of these events makes them difficult to predict.•Changing regulatory environment - Changes in the regulatory environment, particularly in the United States, Brazil, China, Argentina and the European Union, could adversely impact our ability to continue producing and/or selling certain products in our domestic and foreign markets or could increase the cost of doing so. Our FMC Agricultural Solutions business is most sensitive to this general regulatory risk given the need to obtain and maintain pesticide registrations in every country in which we sell our products. Compliance with changing laws and regulations may involve significant costs or capital expenditures or require changes in business practice that could result in reduced profitability. In the European Union, the regulatory risk specifically includes chemicals regulation known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals), which affects each of our business segments to varying degrees. The fundamental principle behind the REACH regulation is that manufacturers must verify through a special registration system that their chemicals can be marketed safely.•Geographic concentration - Although we have operations in most regions, the majority of our FMC Agricultural Solutions sales outside the United States have principally been to customers in Latin America, including Brazil, Argentina and Mexico. With the acquisition of Cheminova, we are expanding our international sales, particularly in Europe and key Asian countries such as India. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world will generally have a more significant effect on our operations. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; governmental pricing directives; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad.•Food and pharmaceutical regulation - Some of our manufacturing processes and facilities, as well as some of our customers, are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar foreign agencies. Regulatory requirements of the FDA are complex, and any failure to comply with them including as a result of contamination due to acts of sabotage could subject us and/or our customers to fines, injunctions, civil penalties, lawsuits, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial of government approvals, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. Any of these actions could adversely impact our net sales, undermine goodwill established with our customers, damage commercial prospects for our products and materially adversely affect our results of operations.•Climate change regulation - Changes in the regulation of greenhouse gases, depending on their nature and scope, could subject our manufacturing operations to significant additional costs or limits on operations.•Fluctuations in commodity prices - Our operating results could be significantly affected by the cost of commodities such as raw materials and energy, including natural gas. We may not be able to raise prices or improve productivity sufficiently to offset future increases in commodity pricing. Accordingly, increases in commodity prices may negatively affect our financial results. Where practical, we use hedging strategies to address material commodity price risks, where hedge strategies are available on reasonable terms. We also use raw material supply agreements that contain terms designed to mitigate the risk of short-term changes in commodity prices. However, we are unable to avoid the risk of medium- and long-term increases. Additionally, fluctuations in commodity prices could negatively impact our customers' ability to sell their products at previously forecasted prices resulting in reduced customer liquidity. Inadequate customer liquidity could affect our customers’ abilities to pay for our products and, therefore, affect existing and future sales or our ability to collect on customer receivables. •Supply arrangements - Certain raw materials are critical to our production process. While we have made supply arrangements to meet planned operating requirements, an inability to obtain the critical raw materials or operate under contract manufacturing arrangements would adversely impact our ability to produce certain products. We increasingly source critical intermediates and finished products from a number of suppliers. An inability to obtain these products or execute under contract sourcing arrangements would adversely impact our ability to sell products. In FMC Lithium, geological conditions can affect production of raw materials.•Economic and political change - Our business has been and could continue be adversely affected by economic and political changes in the markets where we compete including: inflation rates, recessions, trade restrictions, foreign ownership restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States or any of the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in laws, taxation, and regulations and the interpretation and application of these laws, taxes, and regulations; restrictions imposed by foreign governments through exchange controls or taxation policy; nationalization or 13Table of Contentsexpropriation of property, undeveloped property rights, and legal systems or political instability; other governmental actions; and other external factors over which we have no control. Economic and political conditions within foreign jurisdictions or strained relations between countries can cause fluctuations in demand, price volatility, supply disruptions, or loss of property. In Argentina, continued inflation and tightening of foreign exchange controls along with deteriorating economic and financial conditions could adversely affect our business. In Brazil, which makes up a larger portion of our Agricultural Solutions business in Latin America since our acquisition of Cheminova in the second quarter of 2015, continued high inflation and economic recession could continue to adversely affect our business.Operational Risks: •Market access risk - Our results may be affected by changes in distribution channels, which could impact our ability to access the market. •Business disruptions - Although more recently, FMC Agricultural Solutions has engaged in pesticide active ingredient contract manufacturing rather than owned and operated FMC own manufacturing facilities, Cheminova owns and operates large-scale manufacturing facilities in Denmark and India. This will present us with additional operating risks, in that  our operating results will be dependent in part on the continued operation of the various acquired production facilities and the ability to manufacture products on schedule.  Interruptions at these facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These potential hazards include explosions, fires, severe weather and natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtimes, supplier disruptions, labor shortages or other labor difficulties,  information technology systems outages, disruption in our supply chain or manufacturing and distribution operations, transportation interruptions, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, shipment of incorrect or off-specification product to customers, storage tank leaks, other environmental risks, or other sudden disruption in business operations beyond our control as a result of events such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, civil or political unrest, natural disasters, pandemic situations and large scale power outages. Some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities.•Information technology security risks - As with all enterprise information systems, our information technology systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information, or disrupting business processes. Our systems have in the past been, and likely will in the future be, subject to unauthorized access attempts. Unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations and could result in failures or interruptions in our computer systems and in the loss of assets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, breaches of our security measures or the accidental  loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential information about the company, our employees, our vendors, or our customers, could result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  •Capital-intensive business - With the acquisition of Cheminova, our business is more capital intensive than it has been historically. We rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. Limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, interest payments, dividends and the expansion of our business or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. We believe that our cash from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet these needs in the foreseeable future. However, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and pricing of our capital will be dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies and the state of the capital markets generally. There can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain equity or debt financing on terms we deem acceptable, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating results. •We may use our existing revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. In the event of a default  this credit facility or any of our senior notes, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. Any default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. Without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. •Litigation and environmental risks - Current reserves relating to our ongoing litigation and environmental liabilities may ultimately prove to be inadequate. 14Table of Contents•Hazardous materials - We manufacture and transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic or volatile nature. While we take precautions to handle and transport these materials in a safe manner, if they are mishandled or released into the environment, they could cause property damage or result in personal injury claims against us.•Environmental Compliance - We are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and safety laws. regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning, among other things, emissions in the air, discharges to land and water, and the generation, handling, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous waste and other materials. We may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. We take our environmental responsibilities very seriously, but there is a risk of environmental impact inherent in our manufacturing operations and transportation of chemicals. Any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.•Inability to attract and retain key employees - The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management and other key members of the organization. Technology Risks:•Our ability to compete successfully depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize new and innovative, high value-added products for existing and future customers. •Failure to continue to make process improvements to reduce costs could impede our competitive position.•Some of our competitors may secure patents on production methods or uses of products that may limit our ability to compete cost-effectively.Portfolio Management Risks:  •We continuously review our portfolio which includes the evaluation of potential business acquisitions that may strategically fit our business and strategic growth initiatives. If we are unable to successfully integrate and develop our acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies which would include expected cost savings and revenue growth. Failure to achieve these anticipated synergies, could materially and adversely affect our financial results. In addition to strategic acquisitions we evaluate the diversity of our portfolio in light of our objectives and alignment with our growth strategy. In implementing this strategy we may not be successful in separating underperforming or non-strategic assets. The gains or losses on the divestiture of, or lost operating income from, such assets (e.g., divesting) may affect the company’s earnings. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce earnings.In particular, an inability to successfully integrate and develop Cheminova as planned could result in our inability to achieve the synergies we have projected and could thereby cause our future results of operations to be materially and adversely worse than expected. We expect to generate synergies as a result of i) improving Cheminova operating cost-efficiencies, ii) changing the mix of Cheminova’s sales from generic, lower margin products to more differentiated and higher margin products, and iii) rationalizing of the distribution channels used by FMC and Cheminova in overlapping European markets. However, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in achieving these planned synergies.Financial Risks:•Deterioration in the global economy and worldwide credit and foreign exchange markets could adversely affect our business. A worsening of global or regional economic conditions or financial markets could adversely affect our customers ability to meet the terms of sale or our suppliers ability to perform all their commitments to us. A slowdown in economic growth in our international markets, particularly Latin American regions, or a deterioration of credit or foreign exchange markets could adversely affect customers, suppliers and our overall business there. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency, or sell their commodities at prevailing international prices, and we may be unable to collect receivables from such customers. The ongoing economic recession in Brazil has adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our business there.•We are an international company and face foreign exchange rate risks in the normal course of our business. We are particularly sensitive to the Brazilian real, the euro, the Argentine peso and the Chinese yuan. To a lesser extent, we are sensitive to the Mexican peso, the British pound sterling and several Asian currencies. Our acquisition of Cheminova has significantly expanded our operations and sales in foreign countries and correspondingly increased our exposure to foreign exchange risks. During 2015, adverse changes in the Brazilian real exchange rate adversely impacted our financial results and continued weakness in the real could continue to adversely impact our financial results.15Table of Contents•Our future effective tax rates may be materially impacted by numerous items including: a future change in the composition of earnings from foreign and domestic tax jurisdictions, as earnings in foreign jurisdictions are typically taxed at more favorable rates than the United States federal statutory rate; accounting for uncertain tax positions; business combinations; expiration of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits; changes in valuation allowance; changes in tax law; and the potential decision to repatriate certain future foreign earnings on which United States taxes have not been previously accrued.•We have significant investments in long-lived assets and continually review the carrying value of these assets for recoverability in light of changing market conditions and alternative product sourcing opportunities.•Obligations related to our pension and postretirement plans reflect certain assumptions. To the extent our plans' actual experience differs from these assumptions, our costs and funding obligations could increase or decrease significantly.ITEM 1B