ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSAmong the factors that could have an impact on our ability to achieve operating results and meet our other goals are:Industry Risks:Pricing and volumes in our markets are sensitive to a number of industry specific and global issues and events including:•Capacity utilization - Our businesses are sensitive to industry capacity utilization. As a result, pricing tends to fluctuate when capacity utilization changes occur within our industry.•Competition - All of our segments face competition, which could affect our ability to maintain or raise prices, successfully enter certain markets or retain our market position. Our FMC Agricultural Solutions, competition includes not only generic suppliers of the same pesticidal active ingredient, but also alternative proprietary pesticide chemistries, crop protection technologies that are bred into or applied onto seeds, and intellectual property regarding production or use of 12Table of Contentspesticides. Increased generic presence in agricultural chemical markets has been driven by the number of significant product patents and product data protections that have expired in the last decade, and this trend is expected to continue.•Changes in our customer base - Our customer base has the potential to change, especially when long-term supply contracts are renegotiated. Our FMC Minerals and FMC Health and Nutrition businesses are most sensitive to this risk.•Climatic conditions - Our FMC Agricultural Solutions markets are affected by climatic conditions, which could adversely impact crop pricing and pest infestations. Adverse weather conditions can impact our ability to extract lithium efficiently from our lithium reserves in Argentina. Natural disasters can impact production at our facilities in various parts of the world. The nature of these events makes them difficult to predict.•Changing regulatory environment - Changes in the regulatory environment, particularly in the United States, Brazil, China and the European Union, could adversely impact our ability to continue producing and/or selling certain products in our domestic and foreign markets or could increase the cost of doing so. Our FMC Agricultural Solutions business is most sensitive to this general regulatory risk given the need to obtain and maintain pesticide registrations in every country in which we sell our products. Compliance with changing laws and regulations may involve significant costs or capital expenditures or require changes in business practice that could result in reduced profitability. In the European Union, the regulatory risk specifically includes chemicals regulation known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals), which affects each of our business segments to varying degrees. The fundamental principle behind the REACH regulation is that manufacturers must verify that their chemicals can be marketed safely through a special registration system.•Geographic concentration - Although we have operations in most regions throughout the globe, the majority of our FMC Agricultural Solutions sales outside the United States have principally been to customers in Brazil, Argentina and Mexico. With the acquisition of Cheminova, we will expand the reach of international sales to include Europe and key Asian countries. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world generally have a more significant effect on our operations than developments in other places. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; governmental pricing directives; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. •Food and pharmaceutical regulation - Some of our manufacturing processes and facilities, as well as some of our customers, are subjected to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar foreign agencies. Regulatory requirements of the FDA are complex, and any failure to comply with them including as a result of contamination due to acts of sabotage could subject us and/or our customers to fines, injunctions, civil penalties, lawsuits, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial of government approvals, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution.  Any of these actions could adversely impact our net sales, undermine goodwill established with our customers, damage commercial prospects for our products and materially adversely affect our results of operations.•Climate change regulation - Changes in the regulation of greenhouse gases, depending on their nature and scope, could subject our manufacturing operations to significant additional costs or limits on operations.•Fluctuations in commodity prices - Our operating results could be significantly affected by the cost of commodities such as raw materials and energy, including natural gas. We may not be able to raise prices or improve productivity sufficiently to offset future increases in commodity pricing.  Accordingly, increases in commodity prices may negatively affect our financial results. Where practical, we use hedging strategies to address material commodity price risks, where hedge strategies are available on reasonable terms. We also use raw material supply agreements that contain terms designed to mitigate the risk of short-term changes in commodity prices. However, we are unable to avoid the risk of medium- and long-term increases. Additionally, fluctuations in commodity prices could negatively impact our customers' ability to sell their product at previously forecasted prices resulting in reduced customer liquidity. Inadequate customer liquidity could affect our customers’ abilities to pay for our products and, therefore, affect existing and future sales or our ability to collect on customer receivables. •Supply arrangements - Certain raw materials are critical to our production process. While we have made supply arrangements to meet planned operating requirements, an inability to obtain the critical raw materials or execute under the contract manufacturing arrangements would adversely impact our ability to produce certain products. We increasingly source critical intermediates and finished products from a limited number of suppliers. An inability to obtain these products or execute under our existing contract sourcing arrangements would adversely impact our ability to sell products. In FMC Minerals geological conditions can affect production of raw materials.•Economic and political change - Our business could be adversely affected by economic and political changes in the markets where we compete including: inflation rates, recessions, trade restrictions, foreign ownership restrictions and 13Table of Contentseconomic embargoes imposed by the United States or any of the foreign countries in which we do business; changes in laws, taxation, and regulations and the interpretation and application of these laws, taxes, and regulations; restrictions imposed by foreign governments through exchange controls or taxation policy; nationalization or expropriation of property, undeveloped property rights, and legal systems or political instability; other governmental actions; and other external factors over which we have no control. Economic and political conditions within foreign jurisdictions or strained relations between countries can cause fluctuations in demand, price volatility, supply disruptions, or loss of property. In Argentina, continued inflation and tightening of foreign exchange controls along with deteriorating economic and financial conditions could adversely affect our business.Operational Risks: •Market access risk - Our results may be affected by changes in distribution channels, which could impact our ability to access the market. In certain FMC Agricultural Solutions segments, we access the market through joint ventures in which we do not have majority control. Where we do not have a strong product portfolio or market access relationships, we may be vulnerable to changes in the distribution model or influence of competitors with stronger product portfolios.•Business disruptions - Although historically, we have engaged in contract manufacturing and have not owned and operated its own manufacturing facilities, Cheminova (upon acquisition) owns and operates large-scale manufacturing facilities in Denmark and India. After the Cheminova acquisition is completed, our operating results will be dependent on the continued operation of its various production facilities and the ability to manufacture products on schedule.  Interruptions at these facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties.  Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These potential hazards include, explosions, fires, severe weather and natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtimes, supplier disruptions, labor shortages or other labor difficulties,  information technology systems outages, disruption in our supply chain or manufacturing and distribution operations, transportation interruptions, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, shipment of incorrect or off-specification product to customers, storage tank leaks, other environmental risks, or other sudden disruption in business operations beyond our control as a result of events such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, civil or political unrest, natural disasters, pandemic situations and large scale power outages. Some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or personal injury and loss of life and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities.•Our manufacturing operations and those of our key contract manufacturers inherently entail hazards that require continuous oversight and control, such as leaks, ruptures, fire, explosions, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, other environmental risks, mechanical failure or other hazards beyond our control such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, civil or political unrest, natural disasters, pandemic situations, large scale power outages or vehicle accidents. If operational risks materialize, they could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, or loss of production, all of which could negatively impact our ongoing operations, reputation, financial results, and cash flow. •Information technology security risks - As with all Enterprise Information systems, our information technology systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information, or disrupting business processes. Our systems have in the past been, and likely will in the future be, subject to unauthorized access attempts. Unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations and could result in failures or interruptions in our computer systems and in the loss of assets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, breaches of our security measures or the accidental  loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential information about us, our employees, our vendors, or our customers, could result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  •Capital-intensive business - With our impending acquisition of Cheminova, our business will be more capital intensive than it has been historically.  We rely on cash generated from operations and external financing to fund our growth and ongoing capital needs. Limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect our operating results.  Moreover, interest payments, dividends, the expansion of our business and pursuit of other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital. We believe that our cash from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet these needs in the foreseeable future.  However, if we need external financing, our access to credit markets and the cost of new capital will be dependent upon the state of the capital markets generally and the market participants’ assessment of the adequacy of our creditworthiness. There can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms, and it is possible that the cost of any financings could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global 14Table of Contentscredit markets, we could be forced to restrict our operations and growth opportunities, adversely affecting our operating results. •We may use our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility to provide for our cash needs, including supporting our commercial paper program.  As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $924 million of available credit capacity, after considering utilization for letters of credit and support for our commercial paper program. In the event of a default under our credit agreements or any of our senior notes, we could be required to repay immediately outstanding borrowings, redeem commercial paper notes outstanding, and make cash deposits as collateral for letters of credit that the facility supports, and we may not have the financial resources to do so.  A default under any of our credit arrangements could cause a default under other credit agreements and debt instruments. Without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to continue business operations.•Litigation and environmental risks - Current reserves relating to our ongoing litigation and environmental liabilities may ultimately prove to be inadequate. •Hazardous materials - We manufacture and transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic or volatile nature. While we take precautions to handle and transport these materials in a safe manner, if they are mishandled or released into the environment, they could cause property damage or personal injury claims against us.•Environmental Compliance - We are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and safety laws. regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning, among other things, emissions in the air, discharges to land and water, and the generation, handling, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous waste and other materials. We may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own.  We take our environmental responsibilities very seriously, but there is a risk of environmental impact inherent in its manufacturing operations and transportation of chemicals.  Any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.•Inability to attract and retain key employees - The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management.Technology Risks:•Our ability to compete successfully depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize new and innovative, high value-added products for existing and future customers. •Failure to continue to make process improvements to reduce costs could impede our competitive position.Portfolio Management Risks:  •We expect to complete the acquisition of Cheminova and the divestiture of our FMC Alkali Chemicals division in early 2015. The majority of our expected proceeds from the sale of the FMC Alkali Chemicals division will be used to settle a portion of the borrowings that will be used to complete the acquisition of Cheminova.  Any significant delay in the sale of our Alkali Chemicals division or an inability to complete the sale of our Alkali Chemicals division could materially and adversely affect our financial results, as a result of the acquisition borrowings remaining outstanding longer than expected. The expected sale of the Alkali Chemicals division is subject to various conditions, complex in nature and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. Completion of the divestment of our FMC Alkali Chemicals division will be contingent upon customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. •We continuously review our portfolio which includes the evaluation of potential business acquisitions that may strategically fit our business and strategic growth initiatives. If we are unable to successfully integrate and develop our acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies which would include expected cost savings and revenue growth.  Failure to achieve these anticipated synergies, could materially and adversely affect our financial results. In addition to strategic acquisitions we evaluate the diversity of our diverse portfolio in light of our objectives and alignment with its growth strategy.  As part of this evaluation we may not be successful in separating underperforming or non-strategic assets and gains or losses on the divestiture of, or lost operating income from, such assets may affect the company’s earnings. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce its earnings.•In particular, if we are unable to successfully integrate and develop Cheminova as planned, after the acquisition has been completed, could result in our inability to achieve the synergies we have projected and could thereby cause our future results of operations to be materially and adversely worse than expected.  Part of the synergies we expect to generate is the improvement of the cost-efficiency of Cheminova’s business operations.  Another is to reduce the mix of Cheminova’s sales from generic, lower margin products to more differentiated and higher margin products.  Yet another will be the 15Table of Contentsfavorable rationalization of the different distribution channels used by FMC and Cheminova in overlapping European markets.  There can be no assurances that we will be successful in achieving these planned synergies.Financial Risks:•Deterioration in the global economy and worldwide credit and foreign exchange markets could adversely affect our business. A worsening of global or regional economic conditions or financial markets could adversely affect our customers' ability to meet the terms of sale or our suppliers' ability to perform all their commitments to us. A slowdown in economic growth in our international markets, particularly Latin American regions, or a deterioration of credit or foreign exchange markets could adversely affect customers, suppliers and our overall business there. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency, or sell their commodity at prevailing international prices, and we may be unable to collect receivables from such customers. •We are an international company and face foreign exchange rate risks in the normal course of our business. We are particularly sensitive to the euro, the Brazilian real and the Chinese yuan. To a lesser extent, we are sensitive to the Mexican peso, the Argentine peso, the British pound sterling and several Asian currencies, including the Japanese yen. Our acquisition of Cheminova will significantly expand our operations and sales in foreign countries and correspondingly increase our exposure to foreign exchange risks.•Our effective tax rate is favorably impacted by the fact that a portion of our earnings are taxed at more favorable rates in some jurisdictions outside the United States. Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, dividends from subsidiaries or restriction in tax relief allowed on intercompany debt could increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial results.•We have significant investments in long-lived assets and continually review the carrying value of these assets for recoverability in light of changing market conditions and alternative product sourcing opportunities.•Obligations related to our pension and postretirement plans reflect certain assumptions. To the extent our plans' actual experience differs from these assumptions, our costs and funding obligations could increase or decrease significantly.ITEM 1B