Item 1A: Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties
    described under this section.


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1:  

    
    Business





 


    We design and manufacture solar modules using a proprietary thin
    film semiconductor technology that has allowed us to reduce our
    average solar module manufacturing costs to among the lowest in
    the world. In 2007, our average manufacturing costs were $1.23
    per watt, which we believe is significantly less than those of
    traditional crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers. By
    continuing to expand production and improve our technology and
    manufacturing process, we believe that we can further reduce our
    manufacturing costs per watt and improve our cost advantage over
    traditional crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers. Our
    objective is to become, by 2010, the first solar module
    manufacturer to offer a solar electricity solution that can
    generate electricity on a non-subsidized basis at a cost equal
    to the price of retail electricity in key markets in North
    America, Europe and Asia.


 


    We manufacture our solar modules on high-throughput production
    lines and perform all manufacturing steps ourselves in an
    automated, proprietary, continuous process. Our solar modules
    employ a thin layer of cadmium telluride semiconductor material
    to convert sunlight into electricity. In less than three hours,
    we transform a 2ft × 4ft (60cm × 120cm) sheet of glass
    into a complete solar module, using approximately 1% of the
    semiconductor material used by other manufacturers to produce
    crystalline silicon solar modules. Our manufacturing process
    eliminates the multiple supply chain operators and expensive and
    time consuming batch processing steps that are used to produce a
    crystalline silicon solar module.


 


    We have long-term solar module supply contracts (the “Long
    Term Supply Contracts”) with twelve European project
    developers and system integrators that in the aggregate allow
    for approximately €4.5 billion ($5.9 billion at
    an assumed exchange rate of $1.30/€1.00) in sales from 2008
    to 2012 for the sale of a total of 3.2GW of solar modules.


 


    Our customers develop, own and operate solar power plants or
    sell turnkey solar power plants to end-users that include owners
    of land, owners of agricultural buildings, owners of commercial
    warehouses, offices and industrial buildings, public agencies,
    municipal government authorities, utility companies, and
    financial investors that desire to own large scale solar power
    plant projects.



    
    3



Table of Contents




    In order to satisfy our contractual requirements and address
    additional market demand, we are expanding our manufacturing
    capacity with the construction of four plants — each
    with four production lines — at our Malaysian
    manufacturing center. In August 2006, we expanded our Ohio plant
    from one to three production lines. In April 2007, we started
    initial production at a four line manufacturing plant in
    Germany, which reached full capacity in the third quarter of
    2007. Also in April 2007, we began construction of plant one of
    our Malaysian manufacturing center. In the third and fourth
    quarters of 2007, we began construction of plants two and three,
    respectively; and in the first quarter of 2008, we began
    construction of plant four. We expect plant one to reach its
    full capacity in the second half of 2008; plant two to reach its
    full capacity in the first half of 2009; and plants three and
    four to reach full capacity in the second half of 2009. After
    plant four of our Malaysian manufacturing center reaches its
    full capacity, we will have 23 production lines and an annual
    global manufacturing capacity of approximately 1012MW based on
    the fourth quarter of 2007 average run rate at our existing
    plants.


 



    Acquisition
    of Turner Renewable Energy, LLC


 


    On November 30, 2007, we completed the acquisition of
    Turner Renewable Energy, LLC, a privately held company which
    designed and deployed commercial solar projects for utilities in
    the United States. Starting in December 2007, we operate this
    wholly owned subsidiary under the name of First Solar Electric,
    LLC (“First Solar Electric”). We believe the
    acquisition of Turner Renewable Energy, LLC will enable us to
    offer solar electricity solutions to utility companies in the
    United States that are seeking cost effective renewable energy
    solutions for the purpose of meeting renewable portfolio
    standard requirements. The total consideration for the
    transaction was $34.3 million (excluding exit and
    transaction costs of $0.7 million), consisting of
    $28.0 million in common stock and $6.3 million in cash.


 



    Products


 



    Solar
    Modules


 


    Each solar module is approximately 2ft × 4ft (60cm ×
    120cm) and had an average rated power of approximately 64 watts
    for 2006 and approximately 70 watts for 2007. Our solar module
    is a single-junction polycrystalline thin film structure that
    employs cadmium telluride as the absorption layer and cadmium
    sulfide as the window layer. Cadmium telluride has absorption
    properties that are highly matched to the solar spectrum and has
    the potential to deliver competitive conversion efficiencies
    with approximately 1% of the semiconductor material used by
    traditional crystalline silicon solar modules. Our thin film
    technology also has relatively high energy performance in low
    light and high temperature environments compared to traditional
    crystalline silicon solar modules.


 



    Certifications


 


    We have participated, or are currently participating, in
    laboratory and field tests with the National Renewable Energy
    Laboratory, the Arizona State University Photovoltaic Testing
    Laboratory, the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy, TÜV
    Immissionsschutz und Energiesysteme GmbH, and the Institute
    für Solar Energieversorgungstechnik. Currently, we have
    approximately 10,000 solar modules installed worldwide at test
    sites designed to collect data for field performance validation.
    Using data logging equipment, we also monitor approximately
    457,000 solar modules, representing approximately 30MW of
    installed photovoltaic systems, in use by the end-users that
    have purchased systems using our solar modules. The modules in
    these monitored systems represent approximately 19% of all solar
    modules shipped by us from 2002 through 2007.


 


    We maintain all certifications required to sell solar modules in
    the markets we serve or expect to serve, including UL 1703, IEC
    61646, Safety Class II and CE.


 



    Solar
    Module Warranty


 


    We provide a limited warranty to the owner of our solar modules
    for five years following delivery for defects in materials and
    workmanship under normal use and service conditions. We also
    warrant to the owner of our solar modules that solar modules
    installed in accordance with
    agreed-upon
    specifications will produce at least 90% of their power output
    rating during the first 10 years following their
    installation and at least 80% of their power output



    
    4



Table of Contents




    rating during the following 15 years. In resolving claims
    under both the defects and power output warranties, we have the
    option of either repairing or replacing the covered solar module
    or, under the power output warranty, providing additional solar
    modules to remedy the power shortfall. Our warranties are
    automatically transferred from the original purchaser of our
    solar modules to a subsequent purchaser. As of December 29,
    2007, our accrued warranty liability was $7.3 million.


 



    Collection
    and Recycling Program


 


    End-users can return their solar modules to us at any time for
    collection and recycling at no cost. We pre-fund the estimated
    collection and recycling cost at the time of sale, assuming for
    this purpose a minimum service life of approximately
    20 years for our solar modules. In addition to achieving
    substantial environmental benefits, our solar module collection
    and recycling program may provide us the opportunity to resell
    or redistribute working modules or recover certain raw materials
    and components for reuse in our manufacturing process. First
    Solar has developed a recycling process for manufacturing scrap,
    warranty returns and end of life modules that produces glass
    suitable for the use in production of new glass products and
    extracts metals that will be further processed by a third party
    supplier to produce semiconductor materials for reuse in our
    solar modules.


 



    Manufacturing


 



    Manufacturing
    Process


 


    We have integrated our manufacturing processes into a
    continuous, integrated production line with the following three
    stages: the “deposition” stage; the “cell
    definition” stage; and the “assembly and test”
    stage. In the deposition stage, panels of treated glass are
    robotically loaded onto the production line where they are
    cleaned, heated and coated with a layer of cadmium sulfide
    followed by a layer of cadmium telluride using our proprietary
    vapor transport deposition technology, after which the
    semiconductor-coated plates are cooled rapidly to increase
    strength. In our cell definition stage, we use a series of
    lasers to transform the large single semiconductor-coated plate
    into a series of lasers to transform the large single
    semiconductor-coated plate into a series of interconnected cells
    that deliver the desired current and voltage output. Our
    proprietary laser scribing technology is capable of
    accomplishing accurate and complex scribes at high speeds.
    Finally, in the assembly and test stage, we apply busbars,
    laminate, a rear glass cover sheet and termination wires, seal
    the joint box and subject each solar module to a solar simulator
    and current leakage test. The final assembly stage is the only
    stage in our production line that requires manual processing.


 


    Historically, all of our solar modules were produced at our
    Perrysburg, Ohio facility, which has received both an ISO
    9001:2000 quality system certification and ISO 14001:2004
    environmental system certification. In April 2007, we started
    initial production at a manufacturing facility in
    Frankfurt/Oder, Germany which has received all applicable
    licenses and permits to operate in accordance with German law.
    Our German plant has received ISO 9001:2000 quality system
    certification and we anticipate the German plant to attain an
    ISO 14001:2004 environmental system certification in the third
    quarter of 2008.


 



    Manufacturing
    Capacity Expansion


 


    We plan to expand our manufacturing capacity to 23 production
    lines by the end of 2009. In August 2006, we qualified two
    additional production lines at our Ohio plant, increasing our
    annual manufacturing capacity then to approximately 75MW based
    on the fourth quarter of 2006 run rate. In April 2007, we
    started initial production at our four line manufacturing plant
    in Germany, which reached full capacity in the third quarter of
    2007 bringing our total capacity to 308 MW at the end of
    2007 based on the fourth quarter of 2007 run rates at these
    plants. In addition, on January 24, 2007 we entered into a
    land lease agreement for a manufacturing center site in the
    Kulim Hi-Tech Park in the State of Kadah, Malaysia. The Malaysia
    site accommodates up to four plants, each with four productions
    lines. In April 2007, we began construction of plant one of our
    Malaysian manufacturing center. In the third and fourth quarters
    of 2007, we began construction of plants two and three
    respectively, and in the first quarter of 2008, we began
    construction of plant four. We expect plant one to reach its
    full capacity in the second half of 2008; plant two to reach its
    full capacity in the first half of 2009, and plants three and
    four to reach full capacity in the second



    
    5



Table of Contents




    half of 2009. After plant four of our Malaysian manufacturing
    center reaches its full capacity, planned for the second half of
    2009, we will have 23 production lines and an annual global
    manufacturing capacity of 1012MW.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Our manufacturing process uses approximately 20 types of raw
    materials and components to construct a complete solar module.
    Of these raw materials and components, the following nine are
    critical to our manufacturing process: TCO coated front glass,
    cadmium sulfide, cadmium telluride, photo resist, laminate,
    tempered back glass, cord plate/cord plate cap, lead wire (UL
    and TÜV) and solar connectors. Before we use these
    materials and components in our manufacturing process, a
    supplier must undergo a qualification process that can last up
    to 12 months, depending on the type of raw material or
    component. Although we continually evaluate new suppliers and
    currently are qualifying several new suppliers, most of our
    critical materials or components are either sole sourced or
    supplied by a limited number of suppliers.


 


    One critical raw material in our production process is cadmium
    telluride. Presently, we purchase all of our cadmium telluride
    in compounded form from a limited number of suppliers. We have a
    long term supply contract with one of our cadmium telluride
    suppliers, which provides for quarterly price adjustments based
    on the cost of tellurium.


 



    Customers


 


    We have Long Term Supply Contracts with twelve principal
    customers for the sale of solar modules. These customers include
    project developers, system integrators and operators of
    renewable energy projects, and are headquartered throughout the
    European Union. The Long Term Supply Contracts in the aggregate
    allow for approximately €4.5 billion
    ($5.9 billion at an assumed exchange rate of
    $1.30/€1.00) in sales from 2008 to 2012 for the sale of a
    total of 3.2GW of solar modules.


 


    In 2007, our principal customers were Blitzstrom GmbH, Colexon
    Energy AG (previously Reinecke + Pohl), Conergy AG, Gehrlicher
    Umweltschonende Energiesysteme GmbH, Juwi Solar GmbH and Phoenix
    Solar AG. During 2007, each of these six customers individually
    accounted for between 10% and 23% of our net sales. All of our
    other customers individually accounted for less than 10% of our
    net sales in 2007. The loss of any of our major customers could
    have an adverse effect on our business. As we expand our
    manufacturing capacity, we anticipate developing additional
    customer relationships in other markets and regions; which will
    reduce our customer and geographic concentration and dependence.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We launched the marketing and sale of our solar modules in
    Germany in 2003 because Germany has attractive feed-in tariffs,
    a high forecasted growth rate for renewable energy and market
    segments that we believe are well served by our product. Since
    2003, our focus has been on grid-connected ground or large roof
    mounted solar power plants in Germany and other European Union
    countries with feed-in tariff subsidies that enable solar power
    plant owners to earn a reasonable rate of return on their
    capital. Several of our principal customers were authorized in
    2007 to sell our solar modules in the United States in markets
    that have rebates or other forms of subsidies. In November 2007,
    we completed the acquisition of Turner Renewable Energy, LLC and
    established a wholly owned subsidiary First Solar Electric, for
    the purpose of developing solar electricity solutions for
    utility companies in the United States that are seeking cost
    effective renewable energy solutions for the purpose of meeting
    renewable portfolio standard requirements.


 



    Economic
    Incentives


 


    Government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for
    solar electricity generation generally include feed-in tariffs,
    net metering programs, renewable portfolio standards, rebates,
    tax incentives and low interest loans.


 


    Under a feed-in tariff subsidy, the government sets prices that
    regulated utilities are required to pay for renewable
    electricity generated by end-users. The prices are set above
    market rates and may differ based on system size or application.
    Net metering programs enable end-users to sell excess solar
    electricity to their local utility in



    
    6



Table of Contents




    exchange for a credit against their utility bills. The policies
    governing net metering vary by state and utility. Some utilities
    pay the end-user upfront, while others credit the
    end-user’s bill. Under a renewable portfolio standard, the
    government requires regulated utilities to supply a portion of
    their total electricity in the form of renewable electricity.
    Some programs further specify that a portion of the renewable
    energy quota must be from solar electricity, while others
    provide no specific technology requirement for renewable
    electricity generation.


 


    Tax incentive programs exist in the United States at both the
    federal and state level and can take the form of investment tax
    credits, accelerated depreciation and property tax exemptions.
    At the United States federal level, investment tax credits for
    business and residential solar systems have gone through several
    cycles of enactment and expiration since the 1980’s.
    Several state governments also facilitate low interest loans for
    photovoltaic systems, either through direct lending, credit
    enhancement or other programs.


 


    Regulations and policies relating to electricity pricing and
    interconnection also encourage distributive generation with
    photovoltaic systems. Photovoltaic systems generate most of
    their electricity during the afternoon hours when the demand for
    and cost of electricity is highest. As a result, electricity
    generated by photovoltaic systems mainly competes with expensive
    peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average
    price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing
    policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require
    photovoltaic systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete
    with the price of electricity. In addition, interconnection
    policies often enable the owner of a photovoltaic system to feed
    solar electricity into the power grid without interconnection
    costs or standby fees.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering


 


    We continue to devote a substantial amount of resources to
    research and development with the objective of lowering the per
    watt price of solar electricity generated by photovoltaic
    systems using our solar modules to a level that competes on a
    non-subsidized basis with the price of retail electricity in key
    markets in North America, Europe and Asia by 2010. To reduce the
    per watt manufacturing cost of electricity generated by
    photovoltaic systems using our solar modules, we focus our
    research and development on the following areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increase the conversion efficiency of our solar
    modules.  We believe the most promising ways of
    increasing the conversion efficiency of our solar modules are
    maximizing the number of photons that reach the absorption layer
    of the semiconductor material so that they can be converted into
    electrons, maximizing the number of electrons that reach the
    surface of the cadmium telluride and minimizing the electrical
    losses between the semiconductor layer and the back metal
    conductor.




 



     
        • 

    
    System optimization.  We are also working to
    reduce the cost and optimize the effectiveness of the other
    components in a photovoltaic system. We maintain a substantial
    effort to collect and analyze actual field performance data from
    photovoltaic systems that use our modules. We continuously
    collect data from internal test sites comprising approximately
    10,000 modules installed in varying climates and applications.
    We also monitor approximately 457,000 solar modules,
    representing approximately 30MW of installed photovoltaic
    systems, in use by the end-users that have purchased
    photovoltaic systems using our modules. We use the data
    collected from these sources to correlate field performance to
    various manufacturing and laboratory level metrics, identify
    opportunities for module and process improvement and improve the
    performance of systems that use our modules. In addition, we use
    this data to enhance predictive models and simulations for the
    end-users.





 


    We typically qualify process and product improvements for full
    production at our Ohio plant and then utilize our “Copy
    Smart” process to integrate them into our other production
    lines. Our scientists and engineers collaborate across all
    manufacturing plants to drive improvements. We typically
    implement, validate and qualify such improvements at the Ohio
    plant before we deploy them to all of our production lines. We
    believe that this systematic approach to research and
    development will provide continuous improvements and ensure
    uniform adoption across our production lines. In addition, our
    production lines are replicas of each other using our “Copy
    Smart” process, and as a result, a process or production
    improvement on one line can be rapidly validated on other
    production lines.


 


    We maintain active collaborations with the National Renewable
    Energy Laboratory (a division of the U.S. Department of
    Energy), Brookhaven National Laboratory and several
    universities. Since 2004, we have



    
    7



Table of Contents




    invested in excess of $29.6 million into our research and
    development expenses and received $4.6 million of grant
    funding.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and
    protect our proprietary technology and to conduct our business
    without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely
    primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks and trade
    secrets, as well as employee and third party confidentiality
    agreements, to safeguard our intellectual property. As of
    December 29, 2007, we held 22 patents in the United States,
    which will expire at various times between 2009 and 2023, and
    had 25 patent applications pending. We also held 14 patents and
    had over 50 patent applications pending in foreign
    jurisdictions. Our patent applications and any future patent
    applications might not result in a patent being issued with the
    scope of the claims we seek, or at all, and any patents we may
    receive may be challenged, invalidated or declared
    unenforceable. We continually assess appropriate occasions for
    seeking patent protection for those aspects of our technology,
    designs and methodologies and processes that we believe provide
    significant competitive advantages.


 


    As of December 29, 2007, we held two trademarks,
    “First Solar” and “First Solar and Design,”
    in the United States. We have also registered our “First
    Solar and Design” mark in China, Japan and the European
    Union and we are seeking registration in India and other
    countries.


 


    With respect to proprietary know-how that is not patentable and
    processes for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely
    on, among other things, trade secret protection and
    confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We
    believe that many elements of our photovoltaic manufacturing
    process involve proprietary know-how, technology or data that
    are not covered by patents or patent applications, including
    technical processes, equipment designs, algorithms and
    procedures. We have taken security measures to protect these
    elements. All of our research and development personnel have
    entered into confidentiality and proprietary information
    agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual
    property protection issues and require our associates to assign
    to us all of the inventions, designs and technologies they
    develop during the course of employment with us. We also require
    our customers and business partners to enter into
    confidentiality agreements before we disclose any sensitive
    aspects of our solar cells, technology or business plans.


 


    We have not been subject to any material intellectual property
    claims.


 



    Competition


 


    The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly
    competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to
    distinguish themselves within their markets and compete within
    the larger electric power industry. Within the renewable energy
    industry, we compete with other renewable energy technologies
    including hydro, wind, geothermal, bio-mass and tidal. Within
    the solar energy industry, we believe that our main sources of
    competition are crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers,
    other thin film solar module manufacturers and companies
    developing solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic
    technologies. Among photovoltaic module and cell manufacturers,
    the principal methods of competition are price per watt,
    production capacity, conversion efficiency and reliability. We
    believe that we compete favorably with respect to all of these
    factors.


 


    At the end of 2007, the global photovoltaic industry consisted
    of more than 100 manufacturers of solar cells and modules.
    Within the photovoltaic industry, we face competition from
    numerous crystalline silicon solar cell and module
    manufacturers. We also face competition from thin film solar
    module manufacturers.


 


    In addition, we expect to compete with future entrants to the
    photovoltaic industry that offer new technological solutions. We
    may also face competition from semiconductor manufacturers and
    semiconductor equipment manufacturers or their customers,
    several of which have already announced their intention to start
    production of photovoltaic cells, solar modules or turnkey
    production lines. Some of our competitors are larger and have
    greater financial resources, larger production capacities and
    greater brand name recognition than we do and may, as a result,
    be better positioned to adapt to changes in the industry or the
    economy as a whole.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    We also face competition from companies that are developing
    various solar thermal solutions for utility scale power plant
    applications. In addition to manufacturers of solar photovoltaic
    equipment, we face competition from companies developing
    concentrating photovoltaic systems and other renewable energy
    technologies.


 


    As we develop our business under First Solar Electric and begin
    to offer solar electricity solutions to utilities, we expect to
    face competition from other providers of renewable energy
    solutions, including developers of photovoltaic, solar thermal
    and concentrated solar power plants, as well as developers of
    alternate forms of renewable energy projects.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Our manufacturing operations include the use, handling, storage,
    transportation, generation and disposal of hazardous materials.
    We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws
    and regulations relating to the protection of the environment,
    including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the
    air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous
    materials and wastes, occupational health and safety and the
    cleanup of contaminated sites. Therefore, we could incur
    substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or
    criminal sanctions and costs arising from third party property
    damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of
    or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with
    environmental permits required at our facilities. We believe we
    are currently in substantial compliance with applicable
    environmental requirements and do not expect to incur material
    capital expenditures for environmental controls in the
    foreseeable future. However, future developments such as more
    aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more
    stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of unknown
    environmental conditions may require expenditures that could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations
    and/or
    financial condition. See “Item 1A: Risk
    Factors — Environmental obligations and liabilities
    could have a substantial negative impact on our financial
    condition, cash flows and profitability.”


 



    Associates


 


    As of December 29, 2007, we had 1,462 associates (our term
    for employees), including 1,187 in manufacturing. The remainder
    of our associates are in research and development, sales and
    marketing and general and administration positions. None of our
    associates are represented by labor unions or covered by a
    collective bargaining agreement. As we expand domestically and
    internationally, however, we may encounter associates who desire
    union representation. We believe that our relations with our
    associates are good. We expect our headcount to double by the
    end of fiscal 2008 given our continued growth and expansion in
    Malaysia.


 



    Information
    About Geographic Areas


 


    We have significant marketing and distribution operations
    outside the United States and, with the completion of our German
    plant and construction of our Malaysian manufacturing center, we
    expect to have significant manufacturing operations outside the
    United States. In 2007, 98.8% of our net sales were generated
    from customers headquartered in the European Union. In the
    future, we expect to expand our operations in other European
    countries beyond Germany, Malaysia and other Asian countries;
    and as a result, we will be subject to the legal, political,
    social and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of
    many jurisdictions. The international nature of our operations
    subject us to a number of risks, including fluctuations in
    exchange rates, adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory
    requirements, and tariffs, taxes and other trade restrictions.
    See “Item 1A: Risk Factors — Our substantial
    international operations subject us to a number of risks,
    including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax
    conditions in foreign countries.” See also Note 22,
    “Segment and Geographical Information,” to our
    consolidated financial statements referenced in Item 15 of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for information about our net sales by geographic region for the
    years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and
    December 31, 2005, and see our Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in
    Item 7 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for other information about our operations and activities in
    various geographic regions.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    Available
    Information


 


    We maintain a website at
    http://www.firstsolar.com.
    We make available free of charge on our website our annual
    reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or
    furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
    Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to,
    the SEC. The information contained in or connected to our
    website is not incorporated by reference into this report.


 


    The public may also read and copy any materials that we file
    with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The
    public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
    Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports
    and other information regarding issuers, such as First Solar,
    that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet
    website is located at
    http://www.sec.gov.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Our executive officers and their ages and positions as of
    December 29, 2007 are as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    Michael J. Ahearn



 

 


    51

 


 


    Chief Executive Officer, Chairman





    Bruce Sohn



 

 


    46

 


 


    President, Director





    Jens Meyerhoff



 

 


    43

 


 


    Chief Financial Officer





    Kenneth M. Schultz



 

 


    45

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Global Marketing & Business
    Development





    John T. Gaffney



 

 


    47

 


 


    Executive Vice President and General Counsel





    I. Paul Kacir



 

 


    42

 


 


    Vice President, Corporate Secretary








 


    Michael J. Ahearn has served as the CEO and Chairman of First
    Solar since August 2000. Mr. Ahearn also served as
    President of First Solar from August 2000 to March 2007. From
    1996 until November 2006, he was a Partner and President of the
    equity investment firm JWMA Partners, LLC, or JWMA (formerly
    True North Partners, L.L.C.). Prior to joining JWMA,
    Mr. Ahearn practiced law as a partner in the firm of
    Gallagher & Kennedy. He received both a B.A. in
    Finance and a J.D. from Arizona State University.


 


    Bruce Sohn was elected a director of First Solar in July 2003
    and has served as President of First Solar since March 2007.
    Prior to joining First Solar as President, Mr. Sohn worked
    at Intel Corporation for 24 years, where he most recently
    served as Plant Manager. He is a senior member of IEEE and a
    certified Jonah. Mr. Sohn has been a guest lecturer at
    several universities, including the Massachusetts Institute of
    Technology and Stanford University. He graduated from the
    Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degree in Materials
    Science and Engineering.


 


    Jens Meyerhoff joined First Solar in May 2006 as Chief Financial
    Officer. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Meyerhoff was
    the Chief Financial Officer of Virage Logic Corporation, a
    provider of embedded memory intellectual property for the design
    of integrated circuits, from January 2006 to May 2006.
    Mr. Meyerhoff was employed by FormFactor, Inc., a
    manufacturer of advanced wafer probe cards, as Chief Operating
    Officer from April 2004 to July 2005, Senior Vice President of
    Operations from January 2003 to April 2004 and Chief Financial
    Officer from August 2000 to March 2005. Prior to joining
    FormFactor, Inc., Mr. Meyerhoff was the Chief Financial
    Officer and Senior Vice President of Materials at Siliconix
    Incorporated, a manufacturer of power and analog semiconductor
    devices, from March 1998 to August 2000. Mr. Meyerhoff
    holds a German Wirtschaftsinformatiker degree, which is the
    equivalent of a Finance and Information Technology degree, from
    Daimler Benz’s Executive Training Program.


 


    Kenneth M. Schultz joined First Solar in November 2002 and is
    our Executive Vice President Global Marketing and Business
    Development. Prior to joining First Solar, he was a Vice
    President at Intersil Corporation, an analog semiconductor
    company, where he was responsible for commercializing various
    communications technologies, from October 2000 to June 2002.
    Mr. Schultz was Vice President and General Manager at
    SiCOM, Inc. prior to the acquisition of SiCOM by Intersil
    Corporation in 2000. He holds a B.S. in electrical engineering
    from the University of Pittsburgh and received his M.B.A. degree
    from Robert Morris University.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    John T. Gaffney joined First Solar in January 2008 as Executive
    Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to joining First
    Solar, Mr. Gaffney practiced law at the firm of Cravath,
    Swaine & Moore LLP, where he was partner since 1993.
    During his time at Cravath, Mr. Gaffney served as a key
    advisor to First Solar and advised numerous corporate and
    financial institution clients on merger, acquisition and capital
    markets transactions. Mr. Gaffney holds a B.A. from George
    Washington University and an M.B.A. and J.D. from New York
    University.


 


    I. Paul Kacir joined First Solar in October 2006 and is the
    Vice President, Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining First
    Solar, Mr. Kacir was a partner with the law firm of Gowling
    Lafleur Henderson LLP in 2006. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Kacir
    was general counsel for Creo Inc., a manufacturer of digital
    pre-press equipment. Before joining Creo, Mr. Kacir
    practiced with Lang Michener Lawrence & Shaw.
    Mr. Kacir holds a B.A. in economics from the University of
    Western Ontario, a L.L.B from the University of New Brunswick,
    and an M.B.A. from the University of British Columbia.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    An investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You
    should carefully consider the following information, together
    with the other information in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    before buying shares of our stock. If any of the following risks
    or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely
    affected, the trading price of our stock could decline and you
    may lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our stock.


 



    Our
    limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to
    judge our future prospects and results of
    operations.


 


    We have a limited operating history. Although we began
    developing our predecessor technology in 1987, we did not launch
    commercial operations until we qualified our pilot production
    line in January 2002. We qualified the first production line at
    our Ohio plant in November 2004, the second and third production
    lines at our Ohio plant in August 2006 and our German plant in
    the third quarter of 2007. Because these production lines have
    only been in operation for a limited period of time, our
    historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis
    for evaluating our business, financial performance and
    prospects. While our net sales grew from $48.1 million in
    2005 to $504.0 million in 2007, we may be unable to achieve
    similar growth, or grow at all, in future periods. Accordingly,
    you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior
    period as an indication of our future performance.


 



    Thin
    film technology has a short history and our thin film technology
    and solar modules may perform below expectations.


 


    Researchers began developing thin film semiconductor technology
    over 20 years ago, but were unable to integrate the
    technology into a solar module production line until recently.
    Our oldest active production line has only been in operation
    since November 2004 and the oldest solar modules manufactured
    during the qualification of our pilot line have only been in use
    since 2001. As a result, our thin film technology and solar
    modules do not have a sufficient operating history to confirm
    how our solar modules will perform over their estimated
    25-year
    useful life. We perform a variety of quality and life tests
    under different conditions. However, if our thin film technology
    and solar modules perform below expectations, we could lose
    customers and face substantial warranty expense.


 



    Our
    failure to further refine our technology and develop and
    introduce improved photovoltaic products could render our solar
    modules uncompetitive or obsolete and reduce our net sales and
    market share.


 


    We will need to invest significant financial resources in
    research and development to keep pace with technological
    advances in the solar energy industry. However, research and
    development activities are inherently uncertain and we could
    encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research
    results. Our significant expenditures on research and
    development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other
    companies are developing a variety of competing photovoltaic
    technologies, including copper indium gallium diselenide and
    amorphous silicon, which could produce solar modules that prove
    more cost-effective or have better performance than



    
    11



Table of Contents




    our solar modules. As a result, our solar modules may be
    rendered obsolete by the technological advances of our
    competitors, which could reduce our net sales and market share.


 



    If
    photovoltaic technology is not suitable for widespread adoption,
    or if sufficient demand for solar modules does not develop or
    takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our net sales may
    flatten or decline and we may be unable to sustain
    profitability.


 


    The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of
    development and the extent to which solar modules will be widely
    adopted is uncertain. If photovoltaic technology proves
    unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for solar
    modules fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow
    our business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain
    profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules in our
    targeted markets — including Germany, Spain, France,
    Italy and the United States — may not develop or may
    develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may
    affect the viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic
    technology and demand for solar modules, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    cost-effectiveness of solar modules compared to conventional and
    other non-solar renewable energy sources and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    performance and reliability of solar modules and thin film
    technology compared to conventional and other non-solar
    renewable energy sources and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability and substance of government subsidies and
    incentives to support the development of the solar energy
    industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such
    as hydroelectric, tidal, wind, geothermal, solar thermal,
    concentrated photovoltaic, and biomass;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the
    viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy
    sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of oil and
    other fossil fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar
    modules, which tend to decrease when the economy slows and
    interest rates increase; and




 



     
        • 

    
    deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader
    energy industry to permit wide spread adoption of solar
    electricity.





 



    Our
    future success depends on our ability to build new manufacturing
    plants and add production lines in a cost-effective manner, both
    of which are subject to risks and uncertainties.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to significantly
    increase both our manufacturing capacity and production
    throughput in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we
    cannot do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease
    our cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy
    our contractual obligations or sustain profitability. Our
    ability to expand production capacity is subject to significant
    risks and uncertainties, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    making changes to our production process that are not properly
    qualified or may cause problems with the quality of our solar
    modules;




 



     
        • 

    
    delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors,
    many of which may be beyond our control, such as our inability
    to secure successful contracts with equipment vendors;




 



     
        • 

    
    our custom-built equipment may take longer and cost more to
    manufacture than expected and may not operate as designed;




 



     
        • 

    
    delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government
    authorities;




 



     
        • 

    
    being unable to hire qualified staff; and




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to execute our expansion plans effectively.






    
    12



Table of Contents



 



    If our
    future production lines are not built in line with our committed
    schedules or do not achieve operating metrics similar to our
    existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below
    expectations and cause us to lose customers.


 


    Currently, the production lines at our Ohio and German plants
    are our only production lines that have a history of operating
    at full capacity. Future production lines could produce solar
    modules that have lower efficiencies, higher failure rates and
    higher rates of degradation than solar modules from our existing
    production lines, and we could be unable to determine the cause
    of the lower operating metrics or develop and implement
    solutions to improve performance. The second and third
    production lines at our Ohio plant, completed in August 2006,
    represent a “standard building block” that we
    replicated twice to build the four production lines at our
    German plant. We are using the same systematic replication
    process to build our Malaysian manufacturing center and future
    production facilities, including expansion of our existing
    production facilities. Our replication risk in connection with
    building production lines at our Malaysian manufacturing center
    and other future manufacturing plants could be higher than our
    replication risk was in expanding the Ohio plant because these
    new production lines are located internationally, which could
    entail other factors that will lower their operating metrics. If
    we are unable to systematically replicate our production lines
    to meet our committed schedules and achieve and sustain similar
    operating metrics in our Malaysian manufacturing center and
    future production lines as our existing production lines, our
    manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained, our
    manufacturing costs per watt could increase, and we could lose
    customers, causing lower net sales, higher liabilities and lower
    net income than we anticipate. In addition, we might be unable
    to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual
    requirements under our long term customer contracts.


 



    Some
    of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced.
    If our manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment
    suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could
    experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our
    contractual requirements.


 


    Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our
    production lines based on designs or specifications that we
    provide the equipment manufacturer, who then undertakes a
    specialized process to manufacture the custom equipment. As a
    result, the equipment is not readily available from multiple
    vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were
    to become damaged or stop working. If any piece of equipment
    fails, production along the entire production line could be
    interrupted and we could be unable to produce enough solar
    modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our long
    term customer contracts. In addition, the failure of our
    equipment suppliers to supply equipment in a timely manner or on
    commercially reasonable terms could delay our expansion plans
    and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our
    manufacturing costs, all of which would adversely impact our
    financial results.


 



    We may
    be unable to manage the expansion of our operations
    effectively.


 


    We expect to expand our business significantly in order to meet
    our contractual obligations, satisfy demand for our solar
    modules and increase market share. In August 2006, we expanded
    our Ohio plant from one to three production lines. In April
    2007, we started initial production at our four line
    manufacturing plant in Germany, which reached full capacity in
    the third quarter of 2007. Also in April 2007, we began
    construction of plant one of our Malaysian manufacturing center.
    In the third and fourth quarters of 2007, we began construction
    of plants two and three respectively, and in the first quarter
    of 2008, we began construction of plant four. Following the
    completion of plant four of our Malaysian manufacturing center
    we will have grown from one production line to 23 production
    lines with an annual global manufacturing capacity of
    approximately 1012MW in four years based on the fourth quarter
    of 2007 run rate at our existing plants.


 


    To manage the rapid expansion of our operations, we will be
    required to improve our operational and financial systems,
    procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing
    associate base. Our management will also be required to maintain
    and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and other
    third parties and attract new customers and suppliers. In
    addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, systems
    and internal procedures and controls might be inadequate to
    support our future growth. If we cannot manage our growth
    effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market
    opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to
    competitive pressures.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    We
    depend on a limited number of suppliers for key raw materials
    and components and their failure to perform could cause
    manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver solar
    modules to customers in the required quality and quantities and
    at a price that is profitable to us.


 


    Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our
    quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could
    interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules
    or increase our manufacturing cost. Most of our key raw
    materials and components are either sole-sourced or sourced by a
    limited number of third-party suppliers. As a result, the
    failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our
    supply chain and impair our operations. In addition, many of our
    suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our
    increasing demand for raw materials and components as we
    implement our planned rapid expansion. We may be unable to
    identify new suppliers or qualify their products for use on our
    production lines in a timely manner and on commercially
    reasonable terms. Raw materials and components from new
    suppliers may also be less suited for our technology and yield
    solar modules with lower conversion efficiencies, higher failure
    rates and higher rates of degradation than solar modules
    manufactured with the raw materials from our current suppliers.
    A constraint on our production may cause us to be unable to meet
    our obligations under our long term customer contracts, which
    would have an adverse impact on our financial results.


 



    A
    disruption in our supply chain for cadmium telluride, our
    semiconductor material, could interrupt or impair our ability to
    manufacture solar modules.


 


    The key raw material we use in our production process is a
    cadmium telluride compound, with the tellurium component of the
    compound being the most critical. Currently, we purchase most of
    our cadmium telluride in manufactured form from a limited number
    of suppliers. If our current suppliers or any of our future
    suppliers are unable to perform under their contracts or
    purchase orders, our operations could be interrupted or
    impaired. In addition, because our suppliers must undergo a
    lengthy qualification process, we may be unable to replace a
    lost supplier in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable
    terms. Our supply of cadmium telluride could also be limited if
    any of our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers is
    unable to acquire an adequate supply of tellurium in a timely
    manner or at commercially reasonable prices. If our competitors
    begin to use or increase their demand for cadmium telluride,
    supply could be reduced and prices could increase. If our
    current suppliers or any of our future suppliers cannot obtain
    sufficient tellurium, it could substantially increase prices or
    be unable to perform under their contracts. We may be unable to
    pass increases in the cost of our raw materials through to our
    customers because our customer contracts do not adjust for raw
    material price increases and are generally for a longer term
    than our raw material supply contracts. A reduction in our
    production could result in our inability to meet our commitments
    under our long term customer contracts, all of which would have
    an adverse impact on our financial results.


 



    We
    currently depend on a limited number of customers, with six
    customers accounting for substantially all of our net sales in
    2007. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from,
    any of these customers could significantly reduce our net sales
    and negatively impact our operating results.


 


    We currently sell substantially all of our solar modules to
    customers headquartered throughout the European Union. During
    2007, our six largest customers each accounted for between 10%
    and 23% of our net sales. The loss of any of our large
    customers, their inability to perform under their contracts, or
    their default in payment could significantly reduce our net
    sales and adversely impact our operating results. In addition,
    our Long Term Supply Contracts extend through 2012 and we expect
    them to allocate a significant amount of our production capacity
    to a limited number of customers. As a result, we do not expect
    to have a significant amount of excess production capacity to
    identify and then build relationships with new customers that
    could replace any lost customers, and we will have to rely on
    future expansions to attract and service new customers. In
    addition, our customer relationships have been developed over a
    relatively short period of time and we cannot guarantee that we
    will have good relations with our customers in the future.
    Several of our competitors have more established relationships
    with our customers and may gain a larger share of our
    customers’ business over time.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    If we
    are unable to further increase the number of sellable watts per
    solar module and reduce our manufacturing cost per watt, we will
    be in default under certain of our Long Term Supply Contracts
    and our profitability could decline.


 


    Our Long Term Supply Contracts require either an increase in the
    minimum average number of watts per module of approximately 5%
    annually from 2008 to 2009 and then by 3% in 2012 or a base
    number of watts per module that increases 3-4% annually from
    2008 to 2010/2011 and then remains fixed through 2012. Our
    failure to achieve these metrics could reduce our profitability
    or allow some of our customers to terminate their contracts. In
    addition, all of our Long Term Supply Contracts specify a sales
    price per watt that declines by approximately 6.5% at the
    beginning of each year through the expiration date of each
    contract in 2012. Our profitability could decline if we are
    unable to reduce our manufacturing cost per watt by at least the
    same rate at which our contractual prices decrease. Furthermore,
    our failure to reduce cost per watt by increasing our efficiency
    may impair our ability to enter new markets that we believe will
    require lower cost per watt for us to be competitive and may
    impair our growth plans.


 



    Reduced
    growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of
    government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for
    on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for
    our solar modules, lead to a reduction in our net sales and
    adversely impact our operating results.


 


    Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of
    government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for
    on-grid solar electricity may result in the diminished
    competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and
    non-solar renewable sources of energy, and could materially and
    adversely affect the growth of the solar energy industry and our
    net sales. We believe that the near-term growth of the market
    for on-grid applications, where solar energy is used to
    supplement the electricity a consumer purchases from the utility
    network, depends significantly on the availability and size of
    government subsidies and economic incentives. Currently, the
    cost of solar electricity substantially exceeds the retail price
    of electricity in every significant market in the world. As a
    result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many
    countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, France, Greece,
    Portugal, South Korea, Japan, Canada and the United States, have
    provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax
    incentives and other incentives to end-users, distributors,
    systems integrators and manufacturers of photovoltaic products.
    For example, Germany, which accounted for 90.7% of our net sales
    in 2007, has been a strong supporter of photovoltaic products
    and systems, and political changes in Germany could result in
    significant reductions in or the elimination of incentives. Many
    of these government incentives expire, phase out over time,
    exhaust the allocated funding or require renewal by the
    applicable authority. For example, German subsidies decline at a
    rate of 5.0% or 6.5% per year (based on the type of the
    photovoltaic system) and discussions are ongoing about modifying
    the German Renewable Energy Law, or the EEG. The government
    proposal for the EEG amendment published on December 5,
    2007 provides a one time adjustment of one euro cent per kWh
    starting on January 1, 2009 plus a gradual increase of
    degression rates for roof systems from currently 5% to 7%
    starting 2009 and to 8% starting 2011, and for ground mounted
    systems from currently 6.5% to 7% starting 2009 and to 8%
    starting 2011. It also recommends the introduction of a new
    tariff group for roof systems greater than 1000 kWp with a
    feed-in tariff of 34.48 euro cents per kWh in 2009. If the
    German government reduces or eliminates the subsidies under the
    EEG, demand for photovoltaic products could significantly
    decline in Germany.


 


    In Spain, which accounted for approximately 1% of our net sales,
    the Spanish Royal Decree currently supports system installations
    registered before September 27, 2008. Proposals for a
    follow-up
    regulation are under discussion, however, a final conclusion is
    not expected before March of 2008. If the Spanish government
    does not release a new decree before September 27, 2008,
    there will be no feed-in tariff for new PV systems installed,
    connected or registered after that date.


 


    In the United States, California has been the State where the
    majority of solar installations have taken place during the past
    five years. Starting January 1, 2007, the California Solar
    Initiative (CSI) has established a goal of installing 3000MW of
    solar generated electricity by 2017 with a State budget of
    $3.3 billion over 10 years. The CSI is structured to
    reduce the incentives paid to solar system owners as the
    cumulative volume of solar installations reaches pre-determined
    threshold limits. For example, the buy-down incentives and
    performance based incentives are planned to be reduced by
    approximately 50% between a cumulative installed solar capacity
    of 100MW and



    
    15



Table of Contents




    200MW, potentially reducing demand for solar unless system cost
    reductions can be achieved. Emerging subsidy programs, such as
    the programs in Italy, France, Greece, South Korea and Ontario,
    Canada, may require an extended period of time to attain
    effectiveness because the applicable permitting and grid
    connection processes associated with these programs can be
    lengthy and administratively burdensome.


 


    In addition, if any of these statutes or regulations is found to
    be unconstitutional, or is reduced or discontinued for other
    reasons, sales of our solar modules in these countries could
    decline significantly, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business and results of operations. For example,
    the predecessor to the German EEG was challenged in Germany on
    constitutional grounds and in the European Court of Justice as
    impermissible state aid. Although the German Federal High Court
    of Justice dismissed these constitutional concerns and the
    European Court of Justice held that the purchase requirement at
    minimum feed-in tariffs did not constitute impermissible state
    aid, new proceedings challenging the Renewable Energies Act or
    comparable minimum price regulations in other countries in which
    we currently operate or intend to operate may be initiated.


 


    Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from
    fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources could also lobby
    for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to
    protect their revenue streams. Reduced growth in or the
    reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and
    economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications,
    especially those in our target markets, could cause our net
    sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    In the United States, the 30% business and residential
    investment tax credit for solar energy systems reverts back to
    10% at the end of 2008, unless it is extended. The United States
    Congress attempted to extend the 30% investment tax credit
    during 2007, but was unsuccessful. If the 30% investment tax
    credit is not extended, or not extended by mid-year 2008 or is
    only extended for a limited period of time, demand for solar
    energy systems in the United States, at prices that are
    profitable, could decline.


 



    We
    face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline
    silicon solar modules, thin film solar modules and solar thermal
    and concentrated photovoltaic systems.


 


    The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly
    competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to
    distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the
    larger electric power industry. We believe that our main sources
    of competition are crystalline silicon solar module
    manufacturers, other thin film solar module manufacturers and
    companies developing solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic
    technologies.


 


    At the end of 2007, the global photovoltaic industry consisted
    of over 100 manufacturers of solar cells and modules. Within the
    photovoltaic industry, we face competition from crystalline
    silicon solar cell and module manufacturers. We also face
    competition from established thin film solar module
    manufacturers and several crystalline silicon manufacturers who
    are developing thin film technologies. We also face competition
    from semiconductor manufacturers and semiconductor equipment
    manufacturers and numerous startup companies that have attracted
    significant funding during 2007 — or their customers,
    several of which have begun or have already announced their
    intention to start production of photovoltaic cells, solar
    modules or turnkey production lines. In addition to
    manufacturers of solar cells and modules, we face competition
    from companies developing solar thermal and concentrated
    photovoltaic technologies.


 


    Even if demand for solar modules continues to grow, the rapid
    expansion plans of many solar cell and module manufacturers
    could create periods where supply exceeds demand. During any
    such period, our competitors could decide to reduce their sales
    price, even below their manufacturing cost, in order to generate
    sales. As a result, we may be unable to sell our solar modules
    at attractive prices, or for a profit, during any period of
    excess supply of solar modules, which would reduce our net sales
    and harm our results of operations.


 


    Many of our existing and potential competitors have
    substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and
    other resources than we do. A competitor’s greater size
    provides them with a competitive advantage because they often
    can realize economies of scale and purchase certain raw
    materials at lower prices. Many of our competitors also have
    greater brand name recognition, more established distribution
    networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our
    competitors have well-established relationships with our current
    and potential



    
    16



Table of Contents




    distributors and have extensive knowledge of our target markets.
    As a result of their greater size, some of our competitors may
    be able to devote more resources to the research, development,
    promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to
    evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions
    than we can. In addition, a significant increase in the supply
    of silicon feedstock or a significant reduction in the
    manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules could
    lead to pricing pressures for solar modules. Our failure to
    adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully
    with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely
    affect our financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Our
    substantial international operations subject us to a number of
    risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and
    tax conditions in foreign countries.


 


    We have significant marketing and distribution operations
    outside the United States and, with the completion of our German
    plant and construction of our Malaysian manufacturing center, we
    expect to have significant manufacturing operations outside the
    United States. In 2007, 98.8% of our net sales were generated
    from customers headquartered in the European Union. In the
    future, we expect to expand our operations in other European
    countries beyond Germany, Malaysia and other Asian countries;
    and as a result, we will be subject to the legal, political,
    social and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of
    many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations,
    include, but are not limited to, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or
    otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other
    restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency
    exchange controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may
    adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars to the
    extent the price of our solar modules and cost of raw materials,
    labor and equipment is denominated in a foreign currency;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    risk of nationalization of private enterprises;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in general economic and political conditions in the
    countries in which we operate, including changes in the
    government incentives we are relying on;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory
    requirements, including those with respect to environmental
    protection, export duties and quotas;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and
    other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the price
    of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some
    countries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the
    different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas
    markets in which we offer and sell our solar modules.





 


    Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid
    changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall
    success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to
    succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and
    political conditions. We may not be able to develop and
    implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each
    location where we do business. In addition, each of the
    foregoing risks is likely to take on increased significance as
    we implement our plans to expand our foreign manufacturing
    operations.


 



    Problems
    with product quality or performance may cause us to incur
    warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us
    from maintaining or increasing our market share.


 


    Our solar modules are sold with a five year materials and
    workmanship warranty for technical defects and a twenty-five
    year warranty against declines of more than 10% of their initial
    rated power in the first 10 years following their
    installation and 20% of initial rated power in the following
    15 years, respectively. As a result, we bear the risk of
    extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our solar
    modules and recognized net sales. As of December 29, 2007,
    our accrued warranty liability was $7.3 million.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    While our power output warranty extends for twenty-five years,
    our oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification
    of our pilot production line have only been in use since 2001.
    Because of the limited operating history of our solar modules,
    we have been required to make assumptions regarding the
    durability and reliability of our solar modules. Our assumptions
    could prove to be materially different from the actual
    performance of our solar modules, causing us to incur
    substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules
    in the future. For example, our
    glass-on-glass
    solar modules could break, delaminate or experience power
    degradation in excess of expectations. In addition, once our
    solar modules are installed, connected and exposed to sunlight,
    but before they are connected to a power grid or there is a load
    otherwise put on them, they are in an open circuit condition. We
    are continuing to collect data on the long-term effects on
    reliability and service life that results from extended periods
    of the solar modules being in an open circuit condition,
    particularly in high ambient temperature conditions. Although
    the data available to us to date does not suggest significant
    deterioration in long-term performance of solar modules that are
    left in a prolonged open circuit condition, it may become
    apparent with future experience that the long-term performance
    and service life of our solar modules is affected by remaining
    in an open circuit condition for prolonged periods of time. Any
    widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and
    cause our sales to decline and require us to repair or replace
    the defective modules, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial results.


 



    If our
    estimates regarding the future cost of collecting and recycling
    our solar modules are incorrect, we could be required to accrue
    additional expenses at and from the time we realize our
    estimates are incorrect and face a significant unplanned cash
    burden when our end-users return their solar
    modules.


 


    We pre-fund our estimated future obligation for collecting and
    recycling our solar modules based on the present value of the
    expected future cost of the collecting and recycling process.
    This cost includes the cost of packaging the solar module for
    transport, the cost of freight from the solar module’s
    installation site to a recycling center and the material, labor
    and capital costs of the recycling process. The related expense
    that we recognize in our financial statements also includes an
    estimated third-party profit margin and risk rate for such
    services. Currently, we base our estimates on our experience
    collecting and recycling solar modules that do not pass our
    quality control tests and solar modules returned under our
    warranty and on our expectations about future developments in
    recycling technologies and processes and about economic
    conditions at the time the solar modules will be collected and
    recycled. If our estimates prove incorrect, we could be required
    to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize
    our estimates are incorrect and also face a significant
    unplanned cash burden at the time we realize our estimates are
    incorrect or end-users return their solar modules, which could
    harm our operating results. In addition, our end-users can
    return their solar modules at any time. As a result, we could be
    required to collect and recycle our solar modules earlier than
    we expect and before recycling technologies and processes
    improve.


 



    Our
    future success depends on our ability to retain our key
    associates and to successfully integrate them into our
    management team.


 


    We are dependent on the services of Michael J. Ahearn, our Chief
    Executive Officer, Bruce Sohn, our President, Jens Meyerhoff,
    our Chief Financial Officer, Ken Schultz, our Executive Vice
    President Global Marketing and Business Development, John T.
    Gaffney, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, and
    other members of our senior management team. The loss of
    Messrs. Ahearn, Sohn, Meyerhoff, Schultz, Gaffney, or any
    other member of our senior management team could have a material
    adverse effect on us. There is a risk that we will not be able
    to retain or replace these key associates. Several of our
    current key associates, including Messrs. Ahearn, Sohn,
    Meyerhoff, Schultz, and Gaffney are subject to employment
    conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment
    non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit
    the associates to terminate their employment with us upon little
    or no notice.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract, train and retain key personnel, our
    business may be materially and adversely affected.


 


    Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our
    ability to attract, train and retain management, operations and
    technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel,
    particularly those with expertise in the photovoltaic industry,
    thin film technology and cadmium telluride, are vital to our
    success. There is substantial



    
    18



Table of Contents




    competition for qualified technical personnel and we cannot
    assure you that we will be able to attract or retain our
    technical personnel. In addition, a significant percentage of
    our current management, operations and technical personnel have
    stock options that vest in 2008 and it may be more difficult to
    retain these individuals after their options vest. If we are
    unable to attract and retain qualified associates, our business
    may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Our
    failure to protect our intellectual property rights may
    undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our
    intellectual property rights or defend against third-party
    allegations of infringement may be costly.


 


    Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other
    technology, especially our proprietary vapor transport
    deposition process and laser scribing process, is critical to
    our business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our
    existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss
    of valuable technologies. We rely primarily on patents,
    trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other contractual
    restrictions to protect our intellectual property. As of
    December 29, 2007, we held 22 patents in the United States
    and 14 patents in select foreign jurisdictions. A majority of
    our patents expire at various times between 2009 and 2023. Our
    existing patents and future patents could be challenged,
    invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We have
    pending patent applications in the United States and in foreign
    jurisdictions. Our pending patent applications may not result in
    issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may
    not be sufficient to provide meaningful protection against
    competitors or against competitive technologies.


 


    We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing
    expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade
    secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While
    we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    associates and third parties to protect our intellectual
    property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in
    duration and could be breached and may not provide meaningful
    protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing
    expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event
    of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and
    manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain
    knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development
    or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality
    agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology,
    trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods
    and compounds could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright
    and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in
    some foreign countries, especially any developing countries into
    which we may expand our operations. In some countries we have
    not applied for patent, trademark or copyright protection.


 


    Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary
    technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of
    proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also,
    litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property
    rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and
    scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you
    that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our
    favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management
    attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse
    determination in any such litigation will impair our
    intellectual property rights and may harm our business,
    prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance
    coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all
    costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable
    to recover them from other parties.


 



    We may
    be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third
    parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to
    pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from the
    manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our
    technology.


 


    Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop
    our technology and know-how without infringing or
    misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third
    parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to
    photovoltaic technology patents involve complex scientific,
    legal and factual considerations and analysis and, therefore,
    may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation
    involving claims of patent infringement or violation of
    intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and
    prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition
    proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can
    be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert
    the efforts and resources of our technical and management
    personnel. An



    
    19



Table of Contents




    adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to
    which we may become a party could subject us to significant
    liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from
    third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms,
    or at all, or pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our
    solar module, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the
    manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our
    technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our
    customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their
    purchase or use of our solar modules until the resolution of
    such litigation.


 



    Currency
    translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our net
    sales, cost of sales and gross margins and could result in
    exchange losses.


 


    Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we
    conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of
    most countries in which we operate. As a result, we are subject
    to currency translation and transaction risk. For example, 95.0%
    and 98.8% of our net sales were outside the United States and
    denominated in euros for the fiscal year ended December 30,
    2006 and December 29, 2007, respectively, and we expect a
    large percentage of our net sales to be outside the United
    States and denominated in foreign currencies in the future. In
    addition, with the expansion of our manufacturing operations
    into Germany and our current expansion into Malaysia, our
    operating expenses for the plants in these countries will be
    denominated in the local currency. Changes in exchange rates
    between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect
    our net sales and cost of sales and could result in exchange
    gains or losses. For example, the strengthening euro contributed
    $43.8 million to our net sales during fiscal 2007 compared
    to fiscal 2006. In addition, we incur currency transaction risk
    whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a
    purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from
    our reporting currency. For example, our Long Term Supply
    Contracts specify fixed pricing in euros through 2012 and do not
    adjust for changes in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange
    rate. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange
    rate fluctuations on our results of operations.


 


    We could also expand our business into emerging markets, many of
    which have an uncertain regulatory environment relating to
    currency policy. Conducting business in such emerging markets
    could cause our exposure to changes in exchange rates to
    increase.


 



    An
    increase in interest rates or tightening of the supply of
    capital by Global Financial Markets could make it difficult for
    end-users to finance the cost of a photovoltaic system and could
    reduce the demand for our solar modules.


 


    Many of our end-users depend on debt financing to fund the
    initial capital expenditure required to purchase and install a
    photovoltaic system. As a result, an increase in interest rates
    could make it difficult for our end-users to secure the
    financing necessary to purchase and install a photovoltaic
    system on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for
    our solar modules and reduce our net sales. In addition, we
    believe that a significant percentage of our end-users install
    photovoltaic systems as an investment, funding the initial
    capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An
    increase in interest rates could lower an investor’s return
    on investment in a photovoltaic system, or make alternative
    investments more attractive relative to photovoltaic systems,
    and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek
    alternative investments. A reduction in the supply of
    non-recourse project debt financing or tax equity investments
    could reduce the number of solar projects that receive financing
    and thus lower demand for solar modules.


 



    Existing
    regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and
    policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers
    to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products, which may
    significantly reduce demand for our solar modules.


 


    The market for electricity generation products is heavily
    influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government
    regulations and policies concerning the electric utility
    industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities.
    These regulations and policies often relate to electricity
    pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned
    electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of
    other countries, these regulations and policies have been
    modified in the past and may be modified again in the future.
    These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of
    photovoltaic products and investment in the research and
    development of photovoltaic technology. For example, without a
    mandated regulatory exception for photovoltaic systems, utility



    
    20



Table of Contents




    customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for
    putting distributed power generation on the electric utility
    grid. These fees could increase the cost to our end-users of
    using photovoltaic systems and make them less desirable, thereby
    harming our business, prospects, results of operations and
    financial condition. In addition, electricity generated by
    photovoltaic systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour
    electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of
    electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of
    utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require photovoltaic
    systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the
    price of electricity.


 


    We anticipate that our solar modules and their installation will
    be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with
    national and local ordinances relating to building codes,
    safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and
    metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the
    requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply
    with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or
    utility policies pertaining to our solar modules may result in
    significant additional expenses to us, our resellers and their
    customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction
    in demand for our solar modules.


 



    Environmental
    obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative
    impact on our financial condition, cash flows and
    profitability.


 


    Our operations involve the use, handling, generation,
    processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous
    materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and
    regulations at the national, state, local and international
    level. These environmental laws and regulations include those
    governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water,
    the use, management and disposal of hazardous materials and
    wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and occupational
    health and safety. We have incurred and will continue to incur
    significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with
    these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or
    liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in
    restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our
    being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal
    proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury
    claims, cleanup costs or other costs. While we believe we are
    currently in substantial compliance with applicable
    environmental requirements, future developments such as more
    aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more
    stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently
    unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    In addition, our products contain cadmium telluride and cadmium
    sulfide. Elemental cadmium and certain of its compounds are
    regulated as hazardous due to the adverse health effects that
    may arise from human exposure. Although the risks of exposure to
    cadmium telluride are not believed to be as serious as those
    relating to exposure to elemental cadmium, the chemical,
    physical and toxicological properties of cadmium telluride have
    not been thoroughly investigated and reported. We maintain
    engineering controls to minimize associate exposure to cadmium
    and require our associates who handle cadmium compounds to
    follow certain safety procedures, including the use of personal
    protective equipment such as respirators, chemical goggles and
    protective clothing. In addition, we believe the risk of
    exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds from our end-products
    is limited by the fully encapsulated nature of these materials
    in our products, as well as the implementation in 2005 of our
    end of life collection and recycling program for our solar
    modules. While we believe that these factors and procedures are
    sufficient to protect our associates, end-users and the general
    public from cadmium exposure, we cannot assure you that human or
    environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in
    our products will not occur. Any such exposure could result in
    future third-party claims against us, as well as damage to our
    reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our products,
    which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute
    our products. The occurrence of future events such as these
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition or results of operations.


 


    The use of cadmium in various products is also coming under
    increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Future
    regulation in this area could impact the manufacture, sale,
    collection, and recycling of cadmium-containing solar modules
    and could require us to make unforeseen environmental
    expenditures or limit our ability to sell and distribute our
    products. For example, the European Union Directive 2002/96/EC
    on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or the “WEEE
    Directive,” requires manufacturers of certain electrical
    and electronic equipment to be financially responsible for the
    collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of specified
    products sold in the European Union. In addition, European Union
    Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous
    Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, or the
    “RoHS Directive,” restricts the use of certain
    hazardous substances, including cadmium, in specified products.
    Other jurisdictions are considering adopting similar



    
    21



Table of Contents




    legislation. Currently, photovoltaic solar modules in general
    are not subject to the WEEE or RoHS Directives; however, these
    directives allow for future amendments subjecting additional
    products to their requirements and the scope, applicability and
    the products included in the WEEE and RoHS Directives are
    currently being considered and may change. If, in the future,
    our solar modules become subject to requirements such as these,
    we may be required to apply for an exemption. If we were unable
    to obtain an exemption, we would be required to redesign our
    solar modules in order to continue to offer them for sale within
    the European Union, which would be impractical. Failure to
    comply with these directives could result in the imposition of
    fines and penalties, the inability to sell our solar modules in
    the European Union, competitive disadvantages and loss of net
    sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have significant
    control over us and their interests may conflict with or differ
    from your interests as a stockholder.


 


    Our current majority stockholder, the Estate of John T. Walton
    and its affiliates, including JCL Holdings, LLC, beneficially
    own approximately 45.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a
    result, the Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have
    substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder
    approval, including the election of our directors and the
    approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers,
    tender offers and the sale of all or substantially all of our
    assets. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of
    incorporation and by-laws provide that unless and until the
    Estate of John T. Walton, JCL Holdings, LLC, John T.
    Walton’s surviving spouse, descendants, any entity
    (including a trust) that is for the benefit of John T.
    Walton’s surviving spouse or descendants or any entity
    (including a trust) over which any of John T. Walton’s
    surviving spouse, descendants or siblings has voting or
    dispositive power (collectively, the “Estate”)
    collectively owns less than 40% of our common stock then
    outstanding, stockholders holding 40% or more of our common
    stock then outstanding may call a special meeting of the
    stockholders, at which our stockholders could replace our board
    of directors. In addition, unless and until the Estate
    collectively owns less than 40% of our common stock then
    outstanding, stockholder action may be taken by written consent.
    The interests of the Estate could conflict with or differ from
    your interests as a holder of our common stock. For example, the
    concentration of ownership held by the Estate could delay, defer
    or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a
    merger, takeover or other business combination which you may
    view favorably.


 



    We may
    not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future
    acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt
    our business and management.


 


    In November 2007, we acquired Turner Renewable Energy, LLC and
    in the future, we may acquire additional companies, products or
    technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an
    acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks
    include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the
    acquired company;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies
    or products with our current products and technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies
    during the transition and integration;




 



     
        • 

    
    disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our
    management and employees from other opportunities and challenges
    due to integration issues;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting,
    management information and other administrative systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of
    the acquired business;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to retain key customers, vendors and other business
    partners of the acquired business;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the
    acquired and combined businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for
    acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating
    results;






    
    22



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    potential impairment of our relationships with employees,
    customers, partners, distributors or third party providers of
    technology or products;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify
    significant issues with product quality, architecture and
    development, or legal and financial liabilities, among other
    things;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential inability to assert that internal controls over
    financial reporting are effective;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner,
    approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or
    prevent such acquisitions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    potential delay in customer purchasing decisions due to
    uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings.





 


    Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and
    ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired
    businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not
    realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the
    extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition or results of operations.


 



    If our
    goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may
    be required to record a significant charge to
    earnings.


 


    Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United
    States of America, we review our amortizable intangible assets
    for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate
    the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required
    to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may
    be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the
    carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets
    may not be recoverable include, a decline in stock price and
    market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates
    in our industry. Goodwill recorded in connection with the
    acquisition of Turner Renewable Energy, LLC in November 2007 was
    $33.4 million. We may be required to record a significant
    charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period
    in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable
    intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on our
    results of operations.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B