: “Risk Factors.”Joint ventures or other business arrangements with strategic partners are a key part of our Long Term Strategic Plan, and we use such arrangements to expedite our penetration of various markets and establish relationships with potential customers and policymakers. Some of these business arrangements have and are expected in the future to involve significant investments or other allocations of capital on our part. We continue to develop relationships with policymakers, regulators, and end customers in each of these markets with a view to developing markets for utility scale PV solar power systems. We sell solar power solutions directly to end customers, including independent power producers, utilities, retail electricity providers, and commercial and industrial customers. Depending on the market opportunity, our sales offerings range from module only sales, to module sales with a range of development, engineering, procurement, and construction (“EPC”) services and solutions, to full turn-key PV solar power system sales. We expect these sales offerings to continue to evolve over time as we work with our customers to optimize how our PV solar generation solutions can best meet our customers’ energy and economic needs. In addition to our utility-scale power plant offerings, we have fuel displacement, commercial, industrial, and off-grid and energy access offerings as described below.Financial ViabilityFirst Solar’s commitment is to create long-term shareholder value and generate returns on invested capital in excess of its weighted average cost of capital over that time horizon. Despite substantial downward pressure on the price of solar modules due to significant excess capacity in the industry, we have continued to deliver strong financial performance and liquidity. As planned, we expect to continue to drive operating expense efficiencies and improvements while still investing in growth, the continued development of our global sales capabilities and our R&D roadmap. We seek to balance our incentive compensation and decision-making processes to ensure we direct our efforts and investments towards long-term profitable and sustainable growth with appropriate returns on invested capital and reinvest excess returns back into the business. 5Table of ContentsOfferings and CapabilitiesOfferingsWe are focusing our resources in markets and on energy applications in which solar power can be a least-cost, best-fit energy solution, particularly in regions with high solar resources, significant current or projected electricity demand and/or relatively high existing electricity prices. We differentiate our product offering by geographic market and localize the solution, as needed. Our consultative approach to our customers’ solar energy needs and capabilities results in customized solutions to meet their economic goals. We have designed our customer solutions according to the needs of the following different business areas. Although we have substantial experience with the utility-scale power plant and advanced PV module offerings described below, certain other offerings are in various stages of development. •Utility-Scale Power Plant. We have extensive, proven experience in delivering reliable grid-connected bulk power systems for utility-scale generation. First Solar’s grid-connected PV power plants diversify the energy portfolio, reduce fossil-fuel consumption, reduce the risk of fuel price volatility, and save costs, proving that centralized solar generation can deliver reliable and affordable solar electricity to the grid in many places around the world. Benefits of our grid-connected bulk power system solutions include reduction of fuel imports and improvements in energy security; diversification of the energy portfolio and reductions of risk related to fuel-price volatility; enhanced peaking generation and faster time-to-power; improved grid reliability and stability with advanced PV plant controls and managed PV variability through accurate forecasting.•AC Power Block. First Solar’s AC Power Block is a pre-engineered system solution with guaranteed performance, consisting of First Solar modules, mounting solutions, third-party inverters, a power block warranty and certain related services and is available in modular units ranging from 800 kilowatts to 3.8 MW. Building on the core of our PV plant technology, the AC Power Block enables our local EPC partners to develop PV power plants in diverse regions. By utilizing technologies optimized by First Solar, the AC Power Block is designed to provide verification of the power plant energy model ensuring that delivered performance equals predicted performance. The AC Power Block is designed to (i) feature execution by a local partner with First Solar technology and training; (ii) provide a bankable revenue stream; (iii) streamline development, financing, permitting, installation, and commissioning; (iv) reduce LCOE and (v) ensure predictable energy performance. As a result of First Solar’s experience in utility-scale generation, First Solar power plants can deliver an accurate energy profile, cost structure and be optimized for project-specific economics. By applying our knowledge and technical expertise to the AC Power Block solution, we are able to predict the energy model and guarantee the first year revenues. The AC Power block performance guarantee is expected to result in a high level of bankable revenue stream for project owners.•Fuel Displacement. Our hybrid power plant solutions, which are currently in development, are expected to reduce fuel consumption and save costs for certain energy customers using liquid fuel as their primary energy source. Today, solar electricity is cheaper than diesel generated electricity in certain markets. With fixed pricing and no fuel-price volatility, solar can provide a meaningful value proposition for energy customers burning liquid fuel as their primary energy source. Our innovative hybrid system solutions can provide cost-competitive solar energy as an alternative source of fuel, reducing fuel consumption and variable costs with reliable and affordable solar electricity. Benefits of our fuel displacement offerings include the reduction of fuel consumption and cost savings; an increase in fuel reserves or exports at market prices; a smaller impact from fuel price volatility; greater energy independence; reduction of CO2 emissions and generator operating time. •Commercial and Industrial (“C&I”) - Distributed Generation. We are in the process of developing system solutions, both ground-mounted and roof-top, for commercial and industrial applications, using both our CdTe PV technology and our high efficiency crystalline silicon technology. Distributed solar generation can be deployed rapidly, and because the energy generated is consumed locally, less energy is lost in transmission from the point of production. While our CdTe PV modules have been used in many C&I systems worldwide, our high-power density, mono-crystalline solar modules are particularly attractive in restricted spaces, enabling our customers to pack more power and energy production into each location, resulting in improved performance in site-constrained locations. •Off-Grid and Energy Access. Our off-grid and energy access offerings, currently in development, can address underserved energy markets and bring power solutions to some of the approximately 1.3 billion people without access to a modern energy grid. First Solar’s energy access offerings are expected to provide a practical and affordable option for underserved off-grid energy markets across the globe. Our mini-grid capabilities under development can provide aggregate surplus supply for village electrification in remote locations to power homes, schools, hospitals, telecommunication systems, and many other modern applications. Our underserved energy market capabilities under development can provide base- 6Table of Contentsload solar generation with no fuel cost or delivery risk; reduce health risks associated with kerosene and diesel fuel; support fast installation, low maintenance, and easy service and provide income generation and economic development opportunities. We are currently engaged in three off-grid energy access test pilot sites in Kenya. •Community Solar. Our community solar offering addresses the residential and small business sectors, providing a broad range of customers access to competitively priced solar energy regardless of the suitability of their rooftops. Community solar utilizes relatively small ground-mounted installations that provide clean energy to utilities, which then offer consumers the ability to buy into a specific community installation and benefit from the solar power generated by that resource. First Solar’s expertise in utility scale generation and module technology, paired with the community solar project development expertise of our partner Clean Energy Collective, allows residential power consumers to “go solar,” including those who live in apartment buildings or whose home rooftops cannot accommodate solar panels. We are currently working with strategic partners to develop a commercially scalable community solar offering. •Advanced PV Modules. Our Series 4 and Series 3 Black Plus CdTe PV module outperforms conventional crystalline silicon solar modules with equal power rating due in part to superior spectral response and temperature coefficient in many climates. At temperatures above 25°C, First Solar modules produce more energy than conventional crystalline silicon solar modules with equal power rating. Our TetraSun crystalline silicon module is designed for applications where space is at a premium or customers prefer a high power density solution. With a proprietary cell architecture, our crystalline silicon modules offer one of the industry’s highest power ratings and conversion efficiencies and lowest temperature coefficients, resulting in high energy density in space-constrained installations. Full Suite of CapabilitiesThe First Solar model offers PV energy solutions with superior value and less risk with our expertise across substantially the entire solar value chain, including:•Project Development. During project development, we obtain land and land rights for the development of PV solar power systems incorporating our modules, negotiate long-term PPAs with potential purchasers of the electricity to be generated by those plants or develop plants in regulated markets where feed-in-tariff (“FiT”) or similar structures are in place, manage the interconnection and transmission process, negotiate agreements to interconnect the systems to the electricity grid, and obtain the permits which are required prior to the construction of the PV solar power systems, including applicable environmental and land use permits. We also buy projects in various stages of development and continue developing those projects with system designs incorporating our own modules. We sell developed PV solar power systems to system operators who wish to own generating facilities, such as utilities, or to investors who are looking for long-term investment vehicles that are expected to generate consistent returns.•EPC Services. We provide EPC services to projects developed by us, to projects developed by independent solar power project developers, and directly to system owners such as utilities. EPC products and services include engineering design and related services, BoS procurement, advanced development of grid integration solutions, and construction contracting and management. Depending on the customer and market need, we may provide our full EPC services or any combination of individual products and services within our EPC capabilities. An example of such combination of individual services would be providing engineering design and procurement of BoS parts (“EP” services) for a third-party constructing a PV solar power system. •O&M Services. We have a comprehensive O&M service offering with multiple PV solar power systems in operation. Utilizing a state of the art Global Operations Center, our team of O&M experts provide comprehensive services including NERC compliance, energy forecasting, 24/7 monitoring and control, PPA and Large Generator Interconnection Agreement compliance, performance engineering analysis, turn-key maintenance services including spare parts and breakdown repair, and environmental services. We offer our O&M service to solar power plant owners that use either our solar modules or modules manufactured by other third-party manufacturers.    •Project Finance. Our project finance group is primarily responsible for negotiating and executing the financing, structuring and/or sales of PV solar power systems incorporating our modules, which allows us to optimize the value of our project development portfolio. Our project finance team includes professionals with experience in arranging financing including non-recourse project debt financing in the bank loan markets and debt capital markets and project equity capital from tax oriented and strategic industry equity investors.•The First Solar Tracker and Other Balance of System. BoS consists of all of the non-module components of the solar power plant. We sell certain components of the solar system including single-axis trackers, which are manufactured by  7Table of Contentsa third-party using our proprietary technology. We offer several proprietary mounting solutions that have been custom-designed by First Solar engineers to integrate exclusively with our modules and reduce system costs. Project specific factors such as the local irradiance, weather, soil, wind, and topography will dictate the optimal mounting solution for each project. With a single-axis tracker technology and multiple fixed mounting solutions to choose from, we offer a suite of mounting systems that have been engineered to maximize energy output, increase installation velocity, and reduce costs. Our proprietary tracker systems follow the sun throughout the day to maximize energy output and generate up to 25% more energy than fixed mounting systems. In addition, our vertical integration combined with partner collaboration has enabled us to continue to make system-level improvements, such as a next-generation PV solar plant design in development combining our CdTe modules with GE’s ProSolar 1500 volt inverter/transformer system.    •Asset Management. We have energy professionals with extensive experience in managing merchant positions in energy markets. We utilize these professionals to implement opportunistic strategies to secure power sales contracts, and hedge market exposure to optimize value while mitigating price risk. We are also developing capabilities in power sales and marketing, which will enable us to source buyers of electricity from our projects as needed, for instance during any stub periods between a solar plant’s commercial operation date and the subsequent start date of a long-term PPA. Global MarketsWe have established and are continuing to develop a localized business presence on six continents, as described below. Energy markets are by their nature localized, with different drivers and market forces impacting electricity generation in a particular region or for a particular application. Accordingly, our business is evolving worldwide and shaped by the varying ways in which our PV solar solutions can be a compelling and economically viable solution to energy needs in different markets and applications. The Americas•United States. Multiple PV markets in the United States, which accounted for 90% of our 2014 net sales, exemplify several of the criteria critical for a sustainable solar market: (i) sizeable electricity demand, particularly around growing population centers and industrial areas, (ii) high existing power prices, and (iii) abundant solar resources. In those areas and applications in which these factors are more pronounced, our PV solar solutions are getting closer to competing solely on an economic basis with more traditional forms of energy generation. The market penetration of PV solar is impacted by certain state and federal support programs, including the 30% federal investment tax credit set to step down to 10% at the end of 2016, as described under “Market Overview” and “Support Programs.” We have significant experience and a market leadership position in developing, financing, engineering, constructing, and maintaining utility-scale power plants in the United States, particularly in California and other southwestern states. Currently, our solar projects in the United States account for a majority of the 1.5 GW AC advanced-stage pipeline of projects that we are either currently constructing or expect to construct. See Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Systems Project Pipeline” for more information about these projects.•Chile. Chile is a promising region for PV solar in that certain markets are characterized by high existing electricity prices, abundant solar resources and visible demand in the form of mining or industrial activity. The Chilean government’s National Energy Strategy includes expansion of the country’s renewable energy capacity to 20 percent of its total generated power by 2025. In 2014, we began construction on our 141 MW AC Luz del Norte PV power plant located near Copiapó, Chile. Energy from Luz del Norte, once completed, will be supplied into the Chilean Central Interconnected System, contributing significantly toward Chile’s renewable energy goal. In addition to being the largest solar plant in the region, Luz del Norte, once completed, will be the biggest solar power facility in the world to sell electricity on an open contract basis.•Other Americas. We are developing our business in other countries in the Americas including Brazil, Mexico, and certain Central American countries.Europe, Middle East and Africa•Europe. While PV solar adoption in prior years was driven to a large degree by feed-in-tariffs and other incentive programs in Germany, France, Italy and Spain, PV solar has entered its next phase in which growth will ultimately be determined by the degree to which PV solar solutions can compete economically with more traditional forms of electricity generation, particularly in areas with high prevailing electricity prices, strong electricity demand and strong solar resources. In particular, the UK, Germany, France and the Netherlands are all running tenders in which large-scale solar PV can bid for capacity.  8Table of ContentsIn Europe, which accounted for approximately 4% of our 2014 net sales, we have been engaged in project development activities with respect to certain projects in the United Kingdom, Germany, France and the Netherlands, and we are actively evaluating additional project and business opportunities in Turkey, Israel and emerging Southeastern European markets as well as mature Western European solar markets. We are party to a joint venture with Belectric Solarkraftwerke GmbH to realize solar energy projects on three continents. The joint venture is based in Germany and is tasked with developing selected PV power projects independently acquired or developed by either of the two companies in Europe, North Africa, as well as projects of fewer than 20 megawatts, in the United States. Under the terms of the joint venture, First Solar will supply its thin-film modules, selected components such as the First Solar tracker and value-added services, while Belectric will provide its advanced balance of systems and a range of service capabilities. Both companies’ engineering, procurement and construction contributions will vary by project and geography. In November 2014, First Solar and Belectric announced ground-breaking on a new 46 MW DC utility-scale power plant, in Oxfordshire, Southern England.The project is the fourth to be executed in the United Kingdom under the joint venture; with its recently built solar farms in Wiltshire and East Anglia, the joint venture is expecting to reach a total capacity of 80 MW DC in the United Kingdom.•Middle East. The Middle East region offers strong growth potential driven by a combination of economics, abundant solar resources and robust policy. Key markets in the region, including the United Arab Emirates, Jordan, and Egypt, have implemented policy mechanisms designed to ramp up the share of renewable energy in their generation portfolios. While their motives for investing in solar energy range from energy security to the diversification of their generation portfolios to the minimization of domestic consumption of hydrocarbons, the common factor is that the economics of solar PV have made it a compelling choice as a generation source. Jordan and Egypt have actively facilitated the development of the independent power production sector in their countries, as a means of responding to urgent energy needs. For example, Jordan has committed to installing 600MW of solar PV capacity by 2020, while Egypt recently launched the Middle East’s first multi-gigawatt scale solar tender, which was over-subscribed. Meanwhile, the emirate of Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, doubled the capacity of the second phase of its flagship solar park to 200MW; it has also tripled its renewable energy commitment from 5 to 15 percent of its generation capacity by 2030. However, as with any emerging market, challenges remain and these are primarily with regard to evolving policy and legislation, prevailing energy subsidies, available infrastructure, and geopolitical risk. First Solar is pursuing a wide range of opportunities to support the Middle East region’s efforts to cultivate its considerable solar resources. We established a local business presence in Dubai and in Saudi Arabia. We constructed the 13 MW DC first phase of the Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Solar Park in Dubai, which set the benchmark for utility scale solar in the region. In Jordan, we supported the development of and will construct the 53MW AC Shams Ma’an solar plant, which is expected to account for one percent of Jordan’s annual energy output, when it is completed in 2016.•Africa. Africa offers strong potential for PV solar, which can play a useful role meeting the region’s varying energy needs. For example, the mining industry in South Africa and around the region is working to address electricity supply challenges that have a direct impact on operations. Whether mines are grid-connected or relying on diesel generators, solar energy, with its cost competitiveness and reliability, represents a meaningful value proposition. Deploying PV hybrid solutions that supplement existing power sources, such as the electricity grid or diesel generators, can help mining companies address their daytime electricity supply challenges, while minimizing costs and lowering their environmental impact. In South Africa, the government is procuring bids under a competitive tender process in support of a target of procuring over 18 GW of renewable energy (wind, solar, etc.) by 2030 in South Africa’s Integrated Resource Plan of which over 8.4 GW was allocated to solar PV. We are also developing energy access locations using PV solar to address the electricity needs of people in Africa without access to a modern energy grid, as described above under “Business – Offerings and Capabilities – Off-Grid and Energy Access.” First Solar has established an operating subsidiary in Cape Town, South Africa as a regional hub for activities across sub-Saharan Africa. Asia-Pacific (“APAC”) and India•Australia. Australia is a promising region for PV solar in that certain markets are characterized by abundant solar resources and visible demand in the form of mining and industrial activity. In Australia, which accounted for approximately 5% of our 2014 net sales, the solar industry is impacted by several regulatory initiatives that support the installation of solar PV modules in both rooftop and free-field applications, including the federal government’s national Renewable Energy Target, which has set a renewable energy goal of 20% by 2020. This target is the subject of political debate and the development of large scale renewable energy projects is currently constrained by the uncertainty. Additional support has been provided by the Australian Renewable Energy Agency which offers grant-based funding for solar PV projects in both grid-connected and off-grid applications.  9Table of ContentsFirst Solar is currently constructing for AGL Energy Limited a 102 MW solar power plant at Nyngan and a 53 MW solar project at Broken Hill, both located in New South Wales. The Nyngan and Broken Hill solar projects will be Australia’s largest utility-scale solar projects once completed in 2015. In 2012, First Solar completed construction of the 10 MW Greenough River Solar Farm in Western Australia in cooperation with Verve Energy and GE Energy Financial Services. Greenough River Solar Farm is the largest PV solar farm in operation in Australia. In addition to supplying thin film PV modules and EPC services for the plant, First Solar is providing O&M services under a 15 year contract. •Japan. Japan has evolving electricity market characteristics, particularly after the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, that make it an attractive market for PV solar. Japan announced new safety standards after the failure of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station resulting in the idling of Japan’s nuclear reactors, which historically generated nearly 50 GW or 30% of the country’s electricity. Japan has few domestic fossil fuel resources and as a result of the shutdown of its nuclear reactors, it further increased its dependence on fossil fuel imports to cover the generation shortfall. Japan is the largest importer of liquefied natural gas globally. The Japanese government has announced a long-term goal of dramatically increasing installed solar power capacity. Japan is a signatory to the Kyoto Protocol, which requires it to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As Japan will not likely reach its renewable energy (including solar) targets, Japan has provided incentives for solar power installations. Its FiT program has been oversubscribed, leading some of the distribution companies to limit the granting of new interconnection requests. However, high solar demand is expected to be maintained in Japan over the next several years.We established a Japan operating subsidiary and opened an office in Tokyo to effectively pursue growth opportunities. In 2014, we completed construction of a 1.4 MW DC solar project in Kitakyushu-shi, Japan using our CdTe PV modules. We are expecting to partner with Japanese companies to develop, construct, and operate solar power plants, mitigating Japan’s dependence on nuclear power and natural gas fuel imports. Our sales offerings in Japan include both our CdTe modules and high efficiency TetraSun crystalline silicon modules. •India. There is significant potential for PV in India due to its growing energy needs, substantial population centers, a lack of electrification to many parts of the country, high competing energy costs, high levels of irradiance, and the aggressive renewable energy targets set by the government. In India, the Central Government has initiated actions to roll out Phase-III of its Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (“JNNSM”), which aims to install 22 GW of new solar electricity generating capacity by 2022, or a cumulative target capacity addition of 11 GW between 2013-17 as part of Phase II of JNNSM.In addition to national level initiatives, various Indian states have also embarked on solar power programs at the state level. Renewable Purchase Obligations (“RPOs”) have been introduced to help drive the PV market in India. Affected electricity consumers can achieve their purchase obligations by setting up their own installation or purchasing power directly through a PPA. Alternatively they can purchase solar Renewable Energy Certificates from other producers to meet their target. In 2014, we announced plans to build 45 MW AC of utility-scale solar plants at two sites in the state of Telangana, India. The project will supply electricity through the grid to the Southern Distribution Company of Telangana State Limited for a period of 20 years. Additionally, we continue to maintain our equity investment in Kiran Energy Solar Power Pvt. Ltd. and Mahindra Solar One Pvt. Ltd. power plants in India’s Rajasthan state. First Solar in India is seeking to develop utility scale solar PV projects, address the energy/RPO needs of the utilities and also target the open access industrial and commercial power demand. Options such as partnering with local entrepreneurs to develop solutions for segments in the energy access market and creating solutions by combining solar PV with other modes of generation and reduce dependence on liquid fuels especially in back-up (or even primary power) markets are also being explored. For a description of some of the risks associated with our efforts in India, see “: “Risk Factors - Competition at the systems level can be intense,  16Table of Contentsdepending on the market opportunity, thereby potentially exerting downward pressure on systems level profit margins industry-wide, which could reduce our net sales, profitability and adversely affect our results of operations.”EPC WarrantyIn addition to our solar module warranties described above, for solar power plants built by our systems business, we typically provide a limited warranty on the balance of the system against defects in engineering design, installation, and workmanship for a period of one to two years following the substantial completion of a phase or the entire solar power plant. In resolving claims under the engineering design, installation, and workmanship warranties, we have the option of remedying the defect through repair, or replacement.As part of our systems business, we conduct performance testing of the solar power plant prior to substantial completion to confirm the power plant meets operational and capacity expectations noted in the EPC agreement. In addition, we may provide an energy generation performance test during the first year of the solar power plant’s operation. Such a test is designed to demonstrate that the actual energy generation for the first year meets or exceeds the modeled energy expectation, after certain adjustments and exclusions. If there is an underperformance event, determined at the end of the first year after substantial completion, we may incur liquidated damages as a percentage of the EPC contract price. In some instances, a bonus payment may be received at the end of the first year if the power plant performs above a certain level. In limited cases, a similar energy generation test is offered as part of our operations and maintenance service, up to a maximum of five years. In such a case, liquidated damages are incurred at the lost energy price noted in the PPA. Research, Development, and EngineeringOur systems business research and development activities are primarily focused on the objective of lowering the LCOE through reductions in BoS costs, improved systems design, and energy yield enhancements associated with PV systems that use our solar modules. These R&D efforts are also focused on continuing to improve our systems in terms of grid stabilization. We conduct our research and development activities for the systems business primarily in the United States. Innovations related to system design, hardware platforms, inverters, trackers, and installation techniques and know how, among other things, can and are expected in the future to continue to reduce BoS costs, which can represent a significant portion of the costs associated with the construction of a typical utility-scale PV solar power system.For information regarding our research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, See Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations.”Own and OperateFrom time to time we may temporarily own and operate certain PV solar power systems while we attempt to market them. The ability to do so allows us to gain control of the sales process, provide a lower risk profile to a future buyer of a system, and improve our ability to drive higher eventual sale values. As of February 2015, we owned (or have ownership interests in) and operated three solar power plants. As an owner and operator of these PV solar power systems, we and certain of our operating subsidiaries are subject to the authority of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”), as well as various other local, state and federal regulatory bodies. For more information about risks related to owning and operating PV solar power systems, please see : “Risk Factors - Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows, and profitability.”Corporate HistoryIn February 2006 we were incorporated as a Delaware corporation. Our common stock has been listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “FSLR” since our initial public offering in November 2006. In October 2009, our common stock was added to the S&P 500 Index, making First Solar the first, and currently only, pure-play renewable energy company in the index.AssociatesAs of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 6,060 associates (our term for full and part-time employees), including approximately 4,320 in module manufacturing positions and approximately 550 associates that work directly in our systems business. The remainder of our associates are in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative positions. None of our associates are currently represented by labor unions or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. As we expand domestically and internationally, however, we may encounter either regional laws that mandate union representation or associates who desire union representation or a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our associates are good.Information About Geographic AreasWe have significant marketing, distribution, and manufacturing operations both within and outside the United States. Currently, we manufacture our solar modules at our Perrysburg, Ohio, and Kulim, Malaysia manufacturing facilities.  In 2014, the foreign country with the greatest concentration risk was Australia, which accounted for 5% of our consolidated net sales. As part of our Long Term Strategic Plan, we are in the process of expanding our operations, particularly with respect to our systems business, to various countries worldwide, including countries in Latin America, Asia, the Middle East, Australia and Africa. As a result, we are subject to the legal, tax, political, social and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of an increasing number of jurisdictions. The international nature of our operations subjects us to a number of risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements and tariffs, taxes, and other trade restrictions. See :  Risk FactorsAn investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information, together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before buying shares of our stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Markets and CustomersCompetition at the systems level can be intense, thereby potentially exerting downward pressure on systems level profit margins industry-wide, which could reduce our net sales, profitability and adversely affect our results of operations.The significant decline in PV module prices over the last several years has and continues to create a challenging environment for module manufacturers, but it has also increased interest in solar electricity worldwide by eroding one of the primary historical constraints to widespread solar market penetration, namely its affordability. Aided by such lower module prices, competitors have in many cases been willing and able to bid aggressively for new projects and PPAs, using low cost assumptions for modules, BoS components, installation, maintenance and other costs as the basis for such bids. Relatively low barriers to entry for competitors have led to, depending on the market and other factors, intense competition at the systems level. Intense competition at the systems level can result in an environment in which systems level pricing falls rapidly, thereby further increasing demand for solar solutions but constraining the ability for project developers, EPC companies and/or vertically-integrated solar companies such as First Solar to sustain meaningful and consistent profitability. Accordingly, while we believe our systems offerings and experience are positively differentiated in many cases from that of our competitors, we may fail to correctly identify our competitive position, we may be unable to develop or maintain a sufficient magnitude of new systems projects worldwide at economically attractive rates of return, and we may not otherwise be able to achieve meaningful profitability under our Long Term Strategic Plan. Depending on the market opportunity, we may be at a disadvantage compared to potential systems-level competitors. For example, certain of our competitors may have a stronger and/or more established localized business presence in a particular geographic region. Certain of our competitors may be larger entities that have greater financial resources and greater overall brand name recognition than we do and, as a result, may be better positioned to impact customer behavior or adapt to changes in the industry or the economy as a whole. Certain competitors may also have direct or indirect access to sovereign capital and/or other incentives, which could enable such competitors to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time.Additionally, large-scale solar systems are still in their relatively early stages of existence, and, depending on the geographic area, many potential customers are still in the process of educating themselves about the points of differentiation among various available providers of PV solar solutions, including a company’s proven overall experience and bankability, system design and optimization expertise, grid interconnection and stabilization expertise, and proven O&M capabilities. If we are unable over time to meaningfully differentiate our offerings at scale, from the viewpoint of our potential customer base, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may continue to cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operationsSolar manufacturers have significant aggregate installed production capacity in relation to global demand. We believe the solar industry will continue to experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that such periods will put pressure on pricing. During the past several years, industry average sales prices per watt (“ASPs”) have declined significantly both at the module and system levels, as competitors reduced ASPs to sell-through inventories worldwide. If our competitors reduce module pricing to levels near or below their manufacturing costs, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, or if demand for PV modules does not grow sufficiently to justify the current production supply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return, or if sufficient additional demand for solar modules does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our net sales and profit may flatten or decline and we may be unable to sustain profitability.The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development, in comparison to fossil fuel-based electricity generation. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return or if additional demand for solar modules and systems fails to develop sufficiently or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, we may be unable to grow  21Table of Contentsour business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules and systems in our targeted markets may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for solar modules and systems, including the following:•cost-effectiveness of the electricity generated by PV power systems compared to conventional energy sources, such as natural gas and coal (which fuel sources may be subject to significant price swings from time to time), and other non-solar renewable energy sources, such as wind;•performance, reliability, and availability of energy generated by PV systems compared to conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products, particularly conventional energy generation capable of providing 24-hour, non-intermittent baseload power;•success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, tidal, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated PV, and biomass;•fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the price of, and demand for, conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of natural gas, coal, oil, and other fossil fuels;•fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar modules and systems which tend to decrease when the economy slows and when interest rates increase; and•availability, substance, and magnitude of support programs including government targets, subsidies, incentives, and renewable portfolio standards to accelerate the development of the solar energy industry.Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, renewable energy targets and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, or increase in protectionist or other adverse public policies, could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results.Although our Long Term Strategic Plan provides for First Solar to transition over time toward operating in sustainable markets that do not require solar specific government subsidies or support programs, and it is our belief that solar PV will experience widespread adoption in those applications where it competes economically with traditional forms of energy without any support programs, in the near-term our net sales and profits remain subject to variability based on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Federal, state, and local governmental bodies in many countries have provided subsidies in the form of FiTs, rebates, tax incentives, and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators, and manufacturers of PV products. Many of these support programs expire, phase out over time, require renewal by the applicable authority, or may be amended. In particular, the step-down of the U.S. federal investment tax credit from 30% to 10% scheduled for the end of 2016 poses significant uncertainties regarding U.S. PV solar market demand. A summary of recent developments in the major government support programs that can impact our business appears under Item 1: “Business – Support Programs.” To the extent these support programs are reduced earlier than previously expected, or are changed retroactively, or free-field or conversion land applications are disadvantaged, such changes could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar modules and systems, lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results. While the expected potential of the markets we are targeting is significant, policy promulgation and market development are especially vulnerable to governmental inertia, political instability, geopolitical risk, fossil fuel subsidization, potentially stringent localization requirements and limited available infrastructure.Our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in India could be adversely affected by protectionist or other adverse public policies.Under Phase I of the National Solar Mission, India required developers of solar PV projects employing crystalline silicon technology to use solar cells and modules manufactured in India. First Solar modules were not impacted by this restriction. However, in its policy guideline for Batch I Phase II of the National Solar Mission, India has set aside 375 MW of the 750 MW program for domestically manufactured cells and modules irrespective of the technology used (crystalline silicon or thin film). This set-aside effectively cuts the ability of First Solar to compete in the Batch I, Phase II program in half. In February 2013, the United States Government announced that it would expand its previously requested World Trade Organization dispute settlement consultations with the Government of India on Phase I local content requirements (“LCRs”) to include consultations on the LCRs in Phase II. The outcome of the consultation is still pending.  22Table of ContentsWe could be adversely affected by any violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the U.K. Bribery Act and other foreign anti-bribery laws. The FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Other countries in which we operate also have anti-bribery laws, some of which prohibit improper payments to government and non-government persons and entities, and some of which (e.g., the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act) extend their application to activities outside of their country of origin. Our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. We currently operate in, and pursuant to our Long Term Strategic Plan intend to further expand into, many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. In addition, due to the level of regulation in our industry, our operation in certain jurisdictions, including India, China, South America and the Middle East, requires substantial government contact where norms can differ from U.S. standards. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, our employees, subcontractors, agents and partners (such as joint venture partners) may take actions in violation of our policies and anti-bribery laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could subject us to criminal and/or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and reputation. We may be unable to fully execute on our Long Term Strategic Plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We face numerous difficulties in executing our Long Term Strategic Plan, particularly in new foreign jurisdictions, including the following:•difficulty in accurately prioritizing geographic markets which we can most effectively and profitably serve with our PV offerings, including miscalculations in overestimating or underestimating our addressable market demand;•difficulty in overcoming the inertia involved in changing local electricity ecosystems as necessary to accommodate large-scale PV solar deployment and integration;•protectionist or other adverse public policies in countries we operate in and/or are pursuing, including local content requirements or capital investment requirements;•business climates, such as that in China, that may have the effect of putting foreign companies at a disadvantage relative to domestic companies;•unstable economic, social and/or operating environments in foreign jurisdictions, including social unrest and currency, inflation and interest rate uncertainties;•the possibility of applying an ineffective commercial approach to targeted markets, including product offerings that may not meet market needs;•difficulty in generating sufficient sales volumes at economically sustainable profitability levels;•difficulty in timely identifying, attracting training and retaining qualified sales, technical and other personnel in geographies targeted for expansion;•the possibility of having insufficient capital resources necessary to achieve an effective localized business presence in targeted jurisdictions;•difficulty in maintaining proper controls and procedures as we expand our business operations both in terms of complexity and geographical reach, including transitioning certain business functions to low-cost geographies, with any material control failure potentially leading to reputational damage and loss of confidence in our financial reporting accuracy;•difficulty in competing against competitors who may have greater financial resources and/or a more effective or established localized business presence and/or be willing and able to operate with little or no operating margins for sustained periods of time;•difficulty in competing against competitors who may gain in profitability and financial strength over time by successfully participating in the global rooftop PV solar market, which is a segment in which we do not have deep historical experience; 23Table of Contents•difficulty in establishing and implementing a commercial and operational approach adequate to address the specific needs of the markets we are pursuing;•difficulty in identifying the right local partners and developing any necessary partnerships with local businesses, on commercially acceptable terms; and•difficulty in balancing market demand and manufacturing production in an efficient and timely manner, potentially causing us to be manufacturing capacity constrained in some future periods or over-supplied in others.In addition, please see the Risk Factors entitled “Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, and tax conditions in foreign countries,” and “Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidiaries, economic incentives, and other support for on-grid solar electricity, could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results.” We may be unable to profitably provide new solar offerings or achieve sufficient market penetration with such offerings.We are in the process of expanding our line-up of offerings to include solutions that build upon our core competencies but for which we have not had significant historical experience with, including the AC Power Block, and offerings related to fuel displacement, commercial and industrial and distributed generation for restricted spaces, off-grid and energy access. We cannot be certain that we will be able to ascertain and allocate the appropriate financial and human resources necessary to grow these business areas. We could invest considerable capital into growing these businesses but fail to address market or customer needs or otherwise not experience a satisfactory level of financial return. Also, in expanding into these areas, we may be competing against companies that previously have not been significant competitors, such as companies that currently have substantially more experience than we do in the rooftop or other targeted segments. If we are unable to achieve growth in these areas, our overall growth and financial performance may be limited relative to our competitors and our operating results could be adversely impacted.An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for customers to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar systems or modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for PV modules.Many of our customers and our systems business depend on debt and/or equity financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to develop, build and/or purchase a PV system. As a result, an increase in interest rates or lending rates, or a reduction in the supply of project debt financing or tax equity investments, could reduce the number of solar projects that receive financing or otherwise make it difficult for our customers or our systems business to secure the financing necessary to develop, build, purchase or install a PV system on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for our solar modules which could limit our growth or reduce our net sales. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our end-users install PV systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates and/or lending rates could lower an investor’s return on investment in a PV system, increase equity return requirements or make alternative investments more attractive relative to PV systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek alternative investments. Risks Related to RegulationsExisting regulations and policies, changes thereto, and new regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory, and economic barriers to the purchase and use of PV products or systems, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar modules, systems or services. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state, and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of PV products and investment in the research and development of PV technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for PV systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. If these interconnection standby fees were applicable to PV systems, it is likely that they would increase the cost of using PV systems to our end-users, which could make them less desirable, thereby adversely affecting our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, with respect to utilities that utilize a peak hour pricing policy or time-of-use pricing methods whereby the price of electricity is adjusted based on electricity supply and demand, electricity generated by PV systems currently benefits from  24Table of Contentscompeting primarily with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate for all times of the day, would require PV systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity from other sources and would adversely impact our operating results.Our solar systems, modules and services (such as O&M) are subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering, and other matters. It is a complex task to track the requirements of individual jurisdictions. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar modules, systems or services may result in significant additional expenses to us or our customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar modules, systems or services. In addition, any regulatory compliance failure could result in significant management distraction, unplanned costs and/or reputational damage. Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows, and profitability.Our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation, and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local, and international levels. These environmental laws and regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, and occupational health and safety. As we execute our Long Term Strategic Plan and expand our business into foreign jurisdictions worldwide, our environmental compliance burden will continue to increase both in terms of magnitude and complexity. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs, or other costs. Such solutions could also result in substantial delay or termination of projects under construction within our systems business, which could adversely impact our results of operations. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Our CdTe solar modules contain cadmium telluride and cadmium sulfide. Elemental cadmium and certain of its compounds are regulated as hazardous materials due to the adverse health effects that may arise from human exposure. Based on existing research, the risks of exposure to cadmium telluride are not believed to be as serious as those relating to exposure to elemental cadmium. In our manufacturing operations, we maintain engineering controls to minimize our associates’ exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds and require our associates who handle cadmium compounds to follow certain safety procedures, including the use of personal protective equipment such as respirators, chemical goggles, and protective clothing. Relevant studies and third-party peer review of our technology have concluded that the risk of exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds from our end-products is negligible. In addition, the risk of exposure is further minimized by the encapsulated nature of these materials in our products and the physical properties of cadmium compounds used in our products and the recycling or responsible disposal of First Solar’s modules. While we believe that these factors and procedures are sufficient to protect our associates, end-users, and the general public from adverse health effects that may arise from cadmium exposure, we cannot ensure that human or environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in our products will not occur. Any such exposure could result in future third-party claims against us, as well as damage to our reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our products, which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute our products. The occurrence of future events such as these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The use of cadmium in various products is also subject to governmental regulation in several countries. More restrictive regulation in this area and/or expansion of such regulation to additional countries could impact the manufacture, sale, collection, and recycling of solar modules and could require us to make unforeseen environmental expenditures or limit our ability to sell and distribute our products. As an owner and operator of certain PV solar power systems that are delivering electricity to the grid, certain of our indirect affiliates are regulated as public utilities under U.S. federal and state law, which could adversely affect the cost of doing business and limit our growth.As an owner and operator of certain PV solar power systems that are delivering electricity to the grid, certain of our indirectly-owned operating affiliates are considered to be public utilities for purposes of the Federal Power Act, as amended (the “FPA”) and public utility companies for purposes of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (“PUHCA 2005”), and are subject to regulation by the FERC, as well as various local and state regulatory bodies. We currently have three such operating affiliates that are delivering electricity to the grid: SG2 Imperial Valley, LLC (“SG2”); Maryland Solar, LLC (“MD Solar”); and Barilla Solar,  25Table of ContentsLLC (first project phase); and two that are under construction (Lost Hills Solar, LLC and Blackwell Solar, LLC (collectively “Lost Hills”)), which are deemed public utilities by the FERC.SG2 and Lost Hills are “exempt wholesale generators,” or “EWGs,” and as such are exempt from regulation under PUHCA 2005. MD Solar is a “qualifying facility,” or “QF,” under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended (“PURPA”) and is also exempt from PUHCA 2005. In addition, MD Solar is exempt from most provisions of the FPA, as well as state laws regarding the financial or organizational regulation of public utilities. We will also be exempt from regulation under PUHCA 2005 so long as SG2 and Lost Hills remain EWGs, and so long as MD Solar remains a QF, and the regulation does not change. We are not directly subject to FERC regulation under the FPA. However, we are considered to be a “holding company” for purposes of Section 203 of the FPA, which regulates certain transactions involving public utilities, and such regulation could adversely affect our ability to grow the business through acquisitions. Likewise, investors seeking to acquire our public utility subsidiaries or acquire ownership interests in our securities sufficient to give them control over us and our public utility subsidiaries may require prior FERC approval to do so. Such approval could result in transaction delays or uncertainties. Public utilities under the FPA are required to obtain FERC acceptance of their rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity and to comply with various regulations. The FERC has granted SG2 and Lost Hills the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates, and has granted them certain regulatory waivers, such as waivers from compliance with FERC’s accounting regulations. These FERC orders reserve the right to revoke or revise market-based sales authority if the FERC subsequently determines that SG2 and Lost Hills or their affiliates can exercise market power in the sale of generation products, the provision of transmission services, or if it finds that any of them can create barriers to entry by competitors. In addition, if they fail to comply with certain reporting obligations, the FERC may revoke their power sales tariffs. Finally, if they were deemed to have engaged in manipulative or deceptive practices concerning their power sales transactions, they would be subject to potential fines, disgorgement of profits, and/or suspension or revocation of their market-based rate authority. If our indirect subsidiaries were to lose their market-based rate authority, such companies would be required to obtain the FERC’s acceptance of a cost-of-service rate schedule and could become subject to the accounting, record-keeping, and reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate schedules, which would impose cost and compliance burdens on us and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition to the risks described above, we would be subject to additional regulatory regimes at the state and foreign levels to the extent we own and operate PV power plants in the future in other states or foreign jurisdictions, such as our 1.4 MW DC plant in Kitakyushu-shi, Japan.  Risks Related to our Operations, Manufacturing, and TechnologyOur operating history to date may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations.Our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance, and prospects. We may be unable to achieve similar growth, or grow at all, in future periods. Our ability to achieve similar growth in future periods is also affected by current economic conditions. Our past results occurred in an environment where, among other things, capital was at times more accessible to our customers to finance the cost of developing solar projects and economic incentives for solar power in certain markets (such as the German FiT) were more favorable. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior period as an indication of our future performance.We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules, as well as thin-film solar modules and solar thermal and concentrated PV systems; if global supply exceeds global demand, it could lead to a reduction in the average selling price for PV modules, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations.The solar energy and renewable energy industries are highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. Within the global PV industry, we face competition from crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers, other thin-film solar module manufacturers and companies developing solar thermal and concentrated PV technologies. Existing or future solar manufacturers might be acquired by larger companies with significant capital resources, thereby intensifying competition with us. In addition, the introduction of a low cost disruptive technology, such as commercially viable energy storage, could adversely affect our ability to compete, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Even if demand for solar modules continues to grow, the rapid manufacturing capacity expansion undertaken by many solar module manufacturers, particularly manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules, has created and may continue to cause periods of structural imbalance during which supply exceeds demand. See “An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may continue to cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” In addition, we believe any significant decrease in  26Table of Contentsthe cost of silicon feedstock could provide further reductions in the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules and lead to further pricing pressure for solar modules and potentially the oversupply of solar modules. During any such period, our competitors could decide to reduce their sales prices in response to competition, even below their manufacturing costs, in order to generate sales. Other competitors may have direct or indirect access to sovereign capital, which could enable such competitors to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time. As a result, we may be unable to sell our solar modules or systems at attractive prices, or for a profit, during any period of excess supply of solar modules, which would reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Also, we may decide to lower our average selling price to certain customers in certain markets in response to competition.Thin-film solar technology has a limited field history. As a result, and despite our efforts, our solar modules and systems may perform below expectations; problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur significant and/or unexpected warranty and related expenses, damage our market reputation, and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share.We perform a variety of module quality and life tests under different conditions upon which we base our assessments and warranty of module performance over its expected useful life. However, if our thin-film technology, high efficiency crystalline technology, and solar modules perform below expectations, we could lose customers, face substantial warranty expense, and face potential liability under certain EPC and O&M contracts for damages related to loss of revenue from energy production below expectation. With respect to our modules, we provide a limited warranty against defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for 10 years following delivery to the owners of our solar modules. We also typically warrant to our owners that solar modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications will produce at least 97% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing to 0.7% every year thereafter throughout the 25 year performance warranty. Prior to 2014, we typically warranted to our owners that solar modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications would produce at least 90% of their labeled power output rating during the first 10 years following their installation and at least 80% of their labeled power output rating during the following 15 years. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our solar modules and recognized net sales. As an alternative to our module power output warranty, we have offered a system level module performance warranty for a limited number of our recent sales. As of December 31, 2014, our accrued warranty liability was $223.1 million, of which $69.7 million was classified as current and $153.4 million was classified as noncurrent.We have historically estimated our product warranty liability for power output and defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions to have an estimated warranty return rate of approximately 3% of modules covered under warranty. A 1% change in the estimated warranty return rate would change our estimated product warranty liability by approximately $60.4 million.If any of our assumptions used in estimating the above referenced warranty or manufacturing excursion costs prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses, which could adversely impact our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Although we have taken significant corrective actions to avoid a manufacturing excursion from occurring, any future manufacturing excursions including any commitments made by us to take remediation actions in respect of affected modules beyond our limited warranty, could adversely impact our business reputation, financial position, operating results, and cash flows. Although our power output warranty extends for 25 years, our oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification of our pilot production line have only been in use since 2001. As a result, our warranty is based on a variety of quality and life tests that enable predictions of durability and future performance. These predictions, however, could prove to be materially different from the actual performance over the full life of our solar modules, causing us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules in the future. For example, our glass-on-glass solar modules could suffer various failure modes including breakage, delamination, corrosion, or experience power degradation in excess of expectations, and our manufacturing operations or supply chain could be subject to materials or process variations that could cause affected modules to fail or underperform compared to our expectations. These risks could be amplified as we implement design and process changes in connection with our efforts to improve our product, accelerate module conversion efficiency, energy density, and manufacturing production throughput improvements as part of our Long Term Strategic Plan. In addition, as we increase the number of installations in extreme climates, in accordance with our Long Term Strategic Plan, we may experience increased failure rates due to deployment into such field conditions. Any widespread product failures may damage our market reputation, cause our sales to decline, require us to repair or replace the defective modules, and cause us to take voluntary remedial measures beyond those required by our standard warranty terms to enhance customer satisfaction, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.Additionally, we now offer a standard tracker mounting system warranty for a duration of 1 - 5 years. As with our modules, our tracker system warranty is based on a variety of quality and life tests that enable predictions of durability and future performance.  27Table of ContentsThese predictions, however, could prove to be materially different from the actual performance over the full life or our tracker mounting systems, causing us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective structures in the future.In addition to our solar module and tracker system warranty described above, for solar power plants built by our systems business, we typically provide a limited warranty on the balance of the system against defects in engineering design, installation, and workmanship for a period of one to two years following the substantial completion of a phase or the entire solar power plant. Failures of solar power plants built by us could result in significant increases to warranty expense, damage our market reputation, or cause our sales to decline, cause us to incur unexpected costs to remedy defects or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, as part of our systems business, we conduct performance testing of the solar power plant prior to substantial completion to confirm the power plant meets operational and capacity expectations noted in the EPC agreement. In addition, we may provide an energy generation performance test during the first year of the solar power plant’s operation. Such a test is designed to demonstrate that the actual energy generation for the first year meets or exceeds the modeled energy expectation, after certain adjustments and exclusions. If there is an underperformance event, determined at the end of the first year after substantial completion, we may incur liquidated damages as a percentage of the EPC contract price. In some instances, a bonus payment may be received at the end of the first year if the power plant performs above a certain level. In limited cases, a similar energy generation test is offered as part of our operations and maintenance service, up to a maximum of five years. In such a case, liquidated damages are incurred at the lost energy price noted in the PPA. If our estimates regarding the future cost of collecting and recycling solar CdTe modules covered by our collection and recycling program are incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and face a significant unplanned cash burden.Prior to 2013, we have historically pre-funded, and may need to continue to pre-fund in certain circumstances, our estimated future obligation for collecting and recycling CdTe solar modules covered by our collection and recycling program based on the present value of the expected future cost of collecting and recycling the CdTe solar modules, which includes estimates for the cost of packaging the CdTe solar modules for transport, the cost of freight from the CdTe solar module installation sites to a recycling center, the material, labor, capital costs and scale of recycling centers, and an estimated third-party profit margin and return on risk for collection and recycling services. We base our estimate on our experience collecting and recycling CdTe solar modules that do not pass our quality control tests and CdTe solar modules returned under our warranty, and on our expectations about future developments in recycling technologies and processes and economic conditions at the time the CdTe solar modules are expected to be collected and recycled. If our estimates prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and could also face a significant unplanned cash burden at the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or end-users return their CdTe solar modules, which could harm our operating results. In addition, participating end-users can return their CdTe solar modules covered under the collection and recycling program at any time. As a result, we could be required to collect and recycle covered CdTe solar modules earlier than we expect.Our failure to further refine our technology, reduce module manufacturing and BoS costs and develop and introduce improved PV products could render our solar modules or systems uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share.We need to continue to invest significant financial resources in research and development to continue to improve our module conversion efficiency, lower the LCOE of our PV systems, and otherwise keep pace with technological advances in the solar energy industry. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we could encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. We seek to continuously improve our products and processes, and the resulting changes carry potential risks in the form of delays, additional costs, or other unintended contingencies. In addition, our significant expenditures on research and development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other companies are developing a variety of competing PV technologies, including advanced multi-crystalline silicon cells, PERC or advanced p-type crystalline silicon cells, high efficiency n-type crystalline silicon cells, copper indium gallium diselenide, and amorphous silicon thin films, which could produce solar modules or systems that prove more cost-effective or have better performance than our solar modules or systems. In addition, other companies could potentially develop a highly reliable renewable energy system that mitigates the intermittent power production drawback of many renewable energy systems, or offers other value-added improvements from the perspective of utilities and other system owners, in which case such companies could compete with us even if the LCOE associated with such new system is higher than that of our systems. As a result, our solar modules or systems may be negatively differentiated or rendered obsolete by the technological advances of our competitors, which would reduce our net sales, profitability and/or market share. 28Table of ContentsIn addition, we often forward price our products and services in anticipation of future cost reductions and technology improvements, and thus an inability to further refine our technology and execute our conversion efficiency roadmap and our long-term manufacturing cost, BoS cost and LCOE reduction objectives could adversely affect our margins and operating results.Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly.Protection of our proprietary processes, methods, and other technology is critical to our business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. We regularly file patent applications to protect inventions arising from our research and development, and are currently pursuing such patent applications in various countries in accordance with our strategy for intellectual property in that jurisdiction. Our existing patents and future patents could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or rendered unenforceable. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not be sufficient to provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies.We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation, and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our associates and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in duration and could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology, trade secrets, and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods, and compounds could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, especially any developing countries into which we may expand our operations. In some countries we have not applied for patent, trademark, or copyright protection. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation may impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects, and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against such litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties.Some of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of third-party suppliers and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver solar modules to customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price that is profitable to us.Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity, and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules or increase our manufacturing cost. Some of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of third-party suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair our operations. In addition, some of our suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for raw materials and components as we continue to expand rapidly. We may be unable to identify new suppliers or qualify their products for use on our production lines in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. A constraint on our production may cause us to be unable to meet our capacity ramp plan and/or our obligations under our customer contracts, which would have an adverse impact on our financial results.  29Table of ContentsA disruption in our supply chain for cadmium telluride, our CdTe semiconductor material, could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture solar modules and could adversely impact our profitability and long-term growth prospects.A key raw material we use in our CdTe module production process is a cadmium telluride compound. Tellurium, one of the main components of cadmium telluride, is mainly produced as a by-product of copper refining and, therefore, its supply is largely dependent upon demand for copper. Our supply of cadmium telluride could be limited if any of our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers are unable to acquire an adequate supply of tellurium in a timely manner or at commercially reasonable prices. If our competitors begin to use or increase their demand for cadmium telluride, supply could be reduced and prices could increase. If our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers cannot obtain sufficient tellurium, they could substantially increase prices or be unable to perform under their contracts. We may be unable to pass increases in the cost of our raw materials through to our customers. A substantial increase in tellurium prices could adversely impact our profitability and long-term growth objectives. Our TetraSun module offering may not be able to achieve profitable commercial scale, which could adversely impact our operating results and our future growth strategy with respect to PV solar in restricted spaces.In 2013, we acquired TetraSun, Inc., a development stage company with high efficiency crystalline silicon technology. We expect our high-power density TetraSun modules to offer advantages relative to our CdTe modules in commercial & industrial, rooftop and other space constrained applications. Although we began manufacturing TetraSun modules during the fourth quarter of 2014, we are not experienced with crystalline silicon module manufacturing compared to many of our competitors, and accordingly we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Many of these risks are inherent in PV module manufacturing generally, or otherwise similar to risks involved in our CdTe PV module manufacturing operations, and are discussed elsewhere in Item 1A: “Risk Factors.”Additionally, scaling of high-volume TetraSun module manufacturing could present supply chain, timing and other challenges. Contrasted with our largely automated CdTe manufacturing lines, our TetraSun module manufacturing operations involve a batch process and will not be fully-integrated from initial feedstock to final module, potentially resulting in timing, cost, supply and other constraints. We will be outsourcing module assembly to a third party, and any constraints such party faces in meeting our volume or quality requirements would negatively impact our ability to deliver modules to our customers. TetraSun cells will be manufactured using n-type mono-crystalline wafers. We currently do not have polysilicon contracts in place and will rely on our wafer suppliers to contract feedstock in sufficient volumes to meet our demand. Market-driven increases in polysilicon prices realized by our wafer suppliers or increases in wafer prices generally would increase First Solar's manufacturing costs and negatively impact margins on TetraSun modules.If we are able to achieve high-volume manufacturing of TetraSun modules, we may not have an adequate sales channel for such modules and/or the prevailing average selling price or conversion efficiency of PV modules in general may have changed in such a manner as to make our TetraSun modules uncompetitive. If our TetraSun modules are unable to achieve profitable commercial scale, we may have to write down all or a portion of the assets related to this business area, and our future growth strategy with respect to PV solar in restricted spaces could be adversely impacted, which outcomes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand and, when necessary, continue to build new manufacturing plants over time in response to such demand and add production lines in a cost-effective manner, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties.Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand and increase both our manufacturing capacity and production throughput over time in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we cannot do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease our manufacturing cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy our contractual obligations, or sustain profitability. See “An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may continue to cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Our ability to expand production capacity is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the following:•making changes to our production process that are not properly qualified or that may cause problems with the quality of our solar modules;•delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as our inability to secure successful contracts with equipment vendors;•our custom-built equipment taking longer and costing more to manufacture than expected and not operating as designed; 30Table of Contents•delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities;•being unable to hire qualified staff; •failure to execute our expansion plans effectively;•manufacturing concentration risk resulting from a majority of production lines worldwide being located in one geographic area, Malaysia, and the possible inability to meet customer demand in the event of compromises to shipping processes, supply chain or other aspects of such facility;•difficulty in balancing market demand and manufacturing production in an efficient and timely manner, potentially causing us to be manufacturing capacity constrained in some future periods or over-supplied in others; and•incurring manufacturing asset write-downs, write-offs and other charges and costs, which may be significant, during those periods in which we idle, slow down or shut down manufacturing capacity. If any future production lines that we may build in the future are not built in line with our committed schedules it may impair any future growth plans. If any future production lines do not achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers.If we are unable to systematically replicate our production lines as necessary over time and achieve and sustain similar operating metrics in our future production lines as we have achieved at our existing production lines, our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained, our manufacturing costs per watt could increase, and this may impair our growth plans and/or cause us to lose customers, resulting in lower net sales, higher liabilities, and lower net income than we anticipate. For instance, future production lines could produce solar modules that have lower conversion efficiencies, higher failure rates, and higher rates of degradation than solar modules from our existing production lines, and we could be unable to determine the cause of the lower operating metrics or develop and implement solutions to improve performance. Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced. If our manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our contractual requirements.Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our production lines based on designs or specifications that we provide to the equipment manufacturer, which then undertakes a specialized process to manufacture the custom equipment. As a result, the equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. If any piece of equipment fails, production along the entire production line could be interrupted. In addition, the failure of our equipment suppliers to supply equipment in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our expansion plans and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our manufacturing costs, all of which would adversely impact our financial results.We may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations effectively.We expect to continue to expand our business in order to provide utility-scale PV generation to existing and new geographic markets and to maintain or increase market share. To manage the continued expansion of our operations, we will be required to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train, manage and retain our growing associate base. Our management will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers, and other third parties and attract new customers and suppliers. In addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, and internal controls and procedures might be inadequate to support our future growth. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures could be adversely impacted as we transfer more business functions to lower cost geographies as part of our cost reduction initiatives. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. 31Table of ContentsOur substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, and tax conditions in foreign countries.We have significant marketing, distribution, and manufacturing operations both within and outside the United States. We expect to continue to expand our operations worldwide; as a result, we will be subject to the legal, political, social, tax, and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following:•difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems;•difficulty in forming appropriate legal entities to conduct business in foreign countries in the required time frame and the associated costs of forming those legal entities;•varying degrees of protection afforded to foreign investments in the countries in which we operate, and irregular interpretations and enforcement of laws and regulations in these jurisdictions;•foreign countries may impose additional income and withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign operations, impose tariffs, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls;•fluctuations in exchange rates may affect demand for our products and services and may adversely affect our profitability and cash flow in U.S. dollars to the extent that our equity investments, revenues or our costs are denominated in a foreign currency and the cost associated with hedging the dollar equivalent of such exposures is prohibitive; the longer the duration of such foreign currency exposure, the greater the risk;•anti-corruption compliance issues, including the costs related to the mitigation of such risk;•inability to obtain, maintain, or enforce intellectual property rights;•risk of nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises;•changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate, including changes in the government incentives we are relying on;•unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties, and quotas;•opaque approval processes in which the lack of transparency may cause delays and increase the uncertainty of project approvals;•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;•difficulty in repatriating earnings;•difficulty in negotiating a successful collective bargaining agreement in applicable foreign jurisdictions;•trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes, local content requirements, anti-dumping regulations and requirements, and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the price of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some countries; and•difficulty of, and costs relating to, compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas countries in which we offer and sell our solar modules. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social, and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. 32Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Systems BusinessProject development or construction activities may not be successful and projects under development may not receive required permits, real property rights, PPAs, interconnection and transmission arrangements or financing or construction may not commence or proceed as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments.The development and construction of solar power electric generation facilities and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for land and interconnection rights, preliminary engineering, permitting, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things:•obtaining financeable land rights, including land rights for the project site, transmission lines, and environmental mitigation;•receipt from governmental agencies of required land use and construction permits and approvals;•negotiation of development agreements, public benefit agreements, and other agreements to compensate local governments for project impacts;•receipt of rights to interconnect the project to the electric grid or to transmit energy;negotiation of satisfactory EPC agreements;•entering into financeable arrangements for the purchase of the electrical output and renewable energy attributes generated by the project;•securing necessary rights of way for access and transmission lines;•securing appropriate title coverage, including coverage for mineral rights, mechanics’ liens, etc.;•obtaining construction financing, including debt, equity and funds associated with the monetization of tax credits and other tax benefits;•payment of PPA, interconnection and other deposits (some of which are non-refundable); and•timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction.Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected, delayed and/or rendered infeasible by numerous factors, including:•delays in obtaining and maintaining required governmental permits and approvals, including appeals of approvals obtained;•potential permit and litigation challenges from project stakeholders, including local residents, environmental organizations, labor organizations, and others who may oppose the project; •in connection with any such permit and litigation challenges, grant of injunctive relief to stop development and/or construction of a project;•unforeseen engineering problems;•construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls;•work stoppages;•cost over-runs;•labor, equipment and materials supply shortages or disruptions; 33Table of Contents•additional complexities when conducting project development or construction activities in foreign jurisdictions (either on a stand-alone basis or in collaboration with local business partners), including operating in accordance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and applicable local laws and customs;•unfavorable tax treatment;•adverse weather conditions; •water shortages;•adverse environmental and geological conditions; and•force majeure and other events out of our control.If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power facility, we fail to meet one or more agreed target construction milestone dates, any agreed upon system-level capacity or energy output guarantees or warranties (including, for some projects, twenty-five year energy performance or system-level module degradation warranties), or other contract terms, or our projects cause grid interference or other damage, we may be subject to forfeiture of significant deposits under PPAs or interconnection agreements or termination of such agreements, significant liquidated damages, penalties and/or other obligations under the EPC agreement or other agreements relating to the project (including obligations to repair, replace and/or supplement additional modules and balance of system materials for the project), particularly if our liabilities are not capped under the terms of such agreement, and we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project. Some of these penalties might require us to repurchase the project from the buyer or to down-size the project, under certain circumstances. If we were required to repurchase a project, we may have insufficient cash or capital resources necessary to make the repurchase payment or we may be unable to resell the project in a timely manner or on terms commercially satisfactory to us, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Some of these investments are included as assets on our consolidated balance sheet under the line item “Project assets.” If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power project, we may write-down or write-off some or all of these capitalized investments, which would have an adverse impact on our net income in the period in which the loss is recognized. In 2015, we expect to invest a significant amount of capital to develop projects owned by us or third parties, which may limit the availability of capital to use for other purposes, such as contract damages or repurchase payments. We may enter into fixed-price EPC contracts in which we act as the general contractor for our customers in connection with the installation of their solar power systems. All essential costs are estimated at the time of entering into the EPC contract for a particular project, and these are reflected in the overall fixed-price that we charge our customers for the project. These cost estimates are preliminary and may or may not be covered by contracts between us or the subcontractors, suppliers, and other parties to the project. In addition, we require qualified, licensed subcontractors to install most of our systems. Shortages of such skilled labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. Should miscalculations in planning a project occur (including those due to unexpected increases in inflation, commodity prices or labor costs) or delays in execution occur and we are unable to increase commensurately the EPC sales price, we may not achieve our expected margins or we may be required to record a loss in the relevant fiscal period.We may be unable to acquire or lease land, obtain necessary interconnection and transmission rights, and/or obtain the approvals, licenses, permits and electric transmission grid interconnection and transmission rights necessary to build and operate PV power plants in a timely and cost effective manner, and regulatory agencies, local communities, labor unions or other third parties may delay, prevent, or increase the cost of construction and operation of the PV plants we intend to build.In order to construct and operate our PV plants, we need to acquire or lease land and rights of way, obtain interconnection rights, and obtain all necessary local, county, state, federal, and foreign approvals, licenses, and permits, as well as rights to interconnect the plants to the transmission grid and transmit energy generated from the plant. We may be unable to acquire the land or lease interests needed, may not obtain satisfactory interconnection rights, may not receive or retain the requisite approvals, permits, licenses and interconnection and transmission rights, or may encounter other problems which could delay or prevent us from successfully constructing and operating PV plants.  Many of our proposed PV plants are located on or require access through public lands administered by federal and state agencies pursuant to competitive public leasing and right-of-way procedures and processes. The authorization for the use, construction, and operation of PV plants and associated transmission facilities on federal, state, and private lands will also require the assessment and evaluation of mineral rights, private rights-of-way, and other easements; environmental, agricultural, cultural, recreational, and aesthetic impacts; and the likely mitigation of adverse impacts to these and other resources and uses. The inability to obtain the required permits and, potentially, excessive delay in obtaining such permits due, for example, to litigation or third- 34Table of Contentsparty appeals, could prevent us from successfully constructing and operating PV plants in a timely manner and could result in a potential forfeiture of any deposit we have made with respect to a given project. Moreover, project approvals subject to project modifications and conditions, including mitigation requirements and costs, could affect the financial success of a given project.In addition, local labor unions may increase the cost of, and/or lower the productivity of, project development in California and elsewhere. We may also be subject to labor unavailability and/or increased union labor requirements due to multiple simultaneous projects in a geographic region.Lack of transmission capacity availability, potential upgrade costs to the transmission grid, and other systems constraints could significantly impact our ability to build PV plants and generate solar electricity power sales. In order to deliver electricity from our PV plants to our customers, our projects generally need to connect to the transmission grid. The lack of available capacity on the transmission grid could substantially impact our projects and cause reductions in project size, delays in project implementation, increases in costs from transmission upgrades, and potential forfeitures of any deposit we have made with respect to a given project. These transmission issues, as well as issues relating to the availability of large systems such as transformers and switch gear, could significantly impact our ability to build PV plants and generate solar electricity sales. Our systems business is largely dependent on us and third parties arranging financing from various sources, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms or in insufficient amounts. The construction of the large utility-scale solar power projects under development by us is expected in many cases to require project financing, including non-recourse project debt financing in the bank loan market and institutional debt capital markets. Uncertainties exist as to whether our projects will be able to access the debt markets in a magnitude sufficient to finance their construction. If we are unable to arrange such financing or if it is only available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to fully execute our systems business plan. In addition, we generally expect to sell our projects by raising project equity capital from tax- oriented, strategic industry, and other equity investors. Such equity sources may not be available or may only be available in insufficient amounts, in which case our ability to sell our projects may be delayed or limited and our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. Even if such financing sources are available, the counterparty to many of our fixed-price EPC contracts, which own the project we are constructing, are often special purpose vehicles that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the project and have pledged all or substantially all of these assets to secure the project-related debt and certain other sources of financing. If the owner defaults on its payment or other obligations to us, we may face difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended or committed to be expended to purchase equipment or supplies (including intercompany purchases of PV modules), or for termination payments we are entitled to under the terms of the related EPC contract. If we are unable to collect the amounts owed to us, or are unable to complete the project because of an owner default, we may be required to record a charge against earnings related to the project, which could result in a material loss. In addition, for projects to which we provide EPC services but are not the project developer, our EPC activities are in many cases dependent on the ability of third parties to finance their PV plant projects, which, in turn, is dependent on their ability to obtain financing for such purchases on acceptable terms. Depending on prevailing conditions in the credit markets, interest rates and other factors, such financing may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms or in insufficient amounts. If third parties are limited in their ability to access financing to support their purchase of PV power plant construction services from us, we may not realize the cash flows that we expect from such sales, and this could adversely affect our ability to invest in our business and/or generate revenue. See also the risk factor above entitled “An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for PV modules.”  Developing solar power projects may require significant upfront investment prior to the signing of an EPC contract and commencing construction, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the identification of land and the commercial operation of a PV power plant project, vary substantially and can take many months or years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles, we may need to make significant upfront investments of resources (including, for example, payments for land rights, large transmission and PPA deposits or other payments, which may be non-refundable) in advance of the signing of EPC contracts and commencing construction and the receipt of any revenue, much of which is not recognized for several additional months or years following contract signing. Our potential inability to enter into sales contracts with potential customers after making such upfront investments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we may become  35Table of Contentsconstrained in our ability to simultaneously fund our other business operations and these systems investments through our long project development cycles.Our liquidity may be adversely affected to the extent the project sale market weakens and we are unable to sell our solar projects on pricing, terms and timing commercially acceptable to us. In such a scenario, we may choose to continue to own and operate certain solar power plants for a period of time, after which the project assets may be sold to third parties. In such cases, the delayed disposition of projects could require us to recognize a gain on the sale of assets instead of recognizing revenue.We may not be able to obtain long-term contracts for the sale of power produced by our projects at prices and on other terms favorable to attract financing and other investments.Obtaining long-term contracts for the sale of power produced by the projects at prices and on other terms favorable to us is essential for obtaining financing and commencing construction of our projects. We must compete for PPAs against other developers of solar and renewable energy projects. Further, other sources of power, such as natural gas-fired power plants, have historically been cheaper than the cost of solar power and power from certain types of projects, such as natural gas-fired power plants, can be delivered on a firm basis. The inability to compete successfully against other power producers or otherwise enter into PPAs favorable to us would negatively affect our ability to develop and finance our projects and negatively impact our revenue. In addition, the availability of PPAs is a function of a number of economic, regulatory, tax and public policy factors. In addition, certain of our projects may be scheduled for substantial completion prior to the commencement of a long-term PPA with a major off-taker, in which case we would be required to enter into a stub-period PPA for the intervening time period or sell down the project. We may not be able to do either on terms that are commercially attractive to us. We may be subject to unforeseen costs, liabilities or obligations when providing O&M services.We may provide ongoing O&M services to system owners under fixed-price long-term service agreements, pursuant to which we generally perform all scheduled and unscheduled maintenance for the system, perform operating and other asset management services for the system and provide an availability guarantee for the system. Our costs to perform these services are estimated at the time of entering into the O&M agreement for a particular project, and these are reflected in the fixed-price that we charge our customers under the O&M agreement. We do not have extensive experience in performing O&M services for PV solar power plants in foreign jurisdictions in which we plan to offer PV systems solutions as part of our Long Term Strategic Plan (i.e., outside of the United States, Canada, and Australia), including estimating actual costs for such jurisdictions under our O&M agreements relative to the price that we charge our customers. Should miscalculations in estimating these costs occur (including those due to unexpected increases in inflation or labor or BoS costs), our growth strategy and results of operations could be adversely affected. Because of the long-term nature of these O&M agreements, the adverse impacts on results of operations could be significant, particularly if our liabilities are not capped or subject to an above-market liability cap under the terms of the O&M agreement. We also could be subject to substantial costs, liabilities or obligations in the event our solar systems do not meet any agreed-upon system-level availability or performance warranties. Our systems business is subject to regulatory oversight and liability if we fail to operate our solar systems in compliance with electric reliability rules.The ongoing O&M services that we provide for system owners may subject us to regulation by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”), or its designated regional representative, as a “generator operator,” or “GOP,” under electric reliability rules filed with FERC. Our failure to comply with the reliability rules applicable to GOPs could subject us to substantial fines by NERC, subject to FERC’s review. In addition, the system owners that receive our O&M services may be regulated by NERC as “generator owners,” or “GOs” and we may incur liability for GO violations and fines levied by NERC, subject to FERC’s review, based on the terms of our O&M agreements. Finally, as a systems owner and operator, we may in the future be subject to regulation by NERC as a GO.  36Table of ContentsOther RisksWe may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future business combinations or transactions, and integration of these business combinations may disrupt our business and management.We have made several acquisitions in the last several years, and in the future we may acquire additional companies, project pipelines, products, or technologies or enter into joint ventures or other strategic initiatives, such as the potential joint venture YieldCo transaction described under Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Certain Trends and Uncertainties – YieldCo”. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of a business combination, and each transaction has numerous risks. These risks include the following:•difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired or partner company;•difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies;•difficulty in achieving profitable commercial scale from acquired technologies;•difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures, and policies during the transition and integration;•disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and associates from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues;•difficulty integrating the acquired or partner company’s accounting, management information, and other administrative systems;•inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business;•inability to retain key customers, vendors, and other business partners of the acquired business;•inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses, as a result of insufficient capital resources or otherwise;•incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results;•potential impairment of our relationships with our associates, customers, partners, distributors, or third-party providers of technology or products;•potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, legal and financial liabilities, among other things;•potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective;•potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and•potential delay in customer purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings.Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.We may be unable to successfully form the previously announced YieldCo vehicle; the proposed initial public offering of the YieldCo vehicle may not occur on favorable terms or at all; and even if the proposed initial public offering is completed, we may not achieve the expected benefits.On February 23, 2015, we announced that we were in advanced negotiations with SunPower Corporation (“SunPower”) to form a joint venture YieldCo vehicle (the “YieldCo”) into which we and SunPower each expect to contribute a portfolio of selected solar generation assets from our existing portfolios of assets. Upon execution of a master formation agreement, we and SunPower  37Table of Contentsintend to file a registration statement with the SEC for an initial public offering of limited partner interests in the YieldCo (the “IPO”). We and SunPower may not successfully form the YieldCo, which is subject to each party’s board and regulatory approval and execution of definitive documentation as well as the completion of the proposed IPO. In addition, the completion of the proposed IPO is itself subject to numerous conditions, including market conditions, and may not occur on favorable terms or at all.Our stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to developments relating to the proposed IPO or other action or market speculation regarding the proposed IPO. In addition, the IPO process will divert the attention of management and will result in a substantial increase in general and administrative expense for third-party consultants and advisors (including legal counsel and accountants). If the proposed IPO is not completed, we will have expended management's time and incurred significant expenses for which we will not receive any benefit.If the proposed IPO is completed, we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the proposed YieldCo, on a timely basis or at all. We believe that the viability of the YieldCo strategy will depend, among other things, on our ability to continue to develop revenue-generating solar assets, which is subject to the same project-level, business, and industry risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Furthermore, if the IPO is completed, the value of our investment in the YieldCo will fluctuate and may decline. As a result, we may never recover the value of the assets we expect to contribute to the YieldCo, and we may realize less of a return on such contribution than if we had retained or operated these assets. If we are unable to complete the proposed IPO or if we are unable to achieve the strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the proposed IPO, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key associates and to successfully integrate them into our management team.We are dependent on the services of our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of these key associates or any other member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to retain or replace these key associates, and we may not have adequate succession plans in place. Several of our current key associates including our executive officers are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice and the enforceability of the non-competition provisions in certain jurisdictions is uncertain.If we are unable to attract, train, and retain key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected.Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train, and retain management, operations, sales, training and technical personnel, including in foreign jurisdictions as we continue to execute on our Long Term Strategic Plan. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the PV industry across a variety of technologies, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel and while we continue to benchmark our organization against the broad spectrum of business in our market space to remain economically competitive, there can be no assurances that we will be able to attract and retain our technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates, or otherwise experience unexpected labor disruptions within our business, we may be materially and adversely affected.Labor used on some of our job sites that are completed or under construction are subject to the Davis-Bacon Act. The Davis-Bacon Act requires that personnel assigned to the project be paid at least the prevailing wage and fringe benefits, as established by and in accordance with the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”). We have an established policy pursuant to which we evaluate Davis-Bacon Act requirements in conjunction with our subcontractors on the project and ensure our collective compliance with these requirements. If it was ultimately determined that any person working under Davis-Bacon requirements on First Solar projects was not properly classified, was being paid the incorrect prevailing wage, or had not been paid fringe benefits to which he was entitled, we could incur additional liability with respect to such worker. For example, the Agua Caliente project we recently concluded in southwestern Arizona has been undergoing a DOL Davis-Bacon Act compliance review. The ultimate outcome of that compliance review is uncertain at this time. Any such liability incurred above our anticipated costs for these services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technology.Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents  38Table of Contentsinvolve complex scientific, legal, and factual considerations and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our solar module, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our solar modules until the resolution of such litigation.Currency translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales, and gross margins and could result in exchange losses.Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. As a result, we are subject to currency translation and transaction risk. For example, 5% and 4% of our net sales were denominated in euros for 2014 and 2013, respectively, and we expect more than a minor percentage of our net sales to be outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies in the future. In addition, our operating expenses for our manufacturing plants located outside the U.S. and our operations for our systems business in foreign countries will generally be denominated in the local currency. Joint ventures or other business arrangements with strategic partners outside of the United States have and are expected in the future to involve significant investments denominated in the local currency. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect our net sales, cost of sales, and equity investments and could result in exchange gains or losses. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations.We could also expand our business into emerging markets, many of which have an uncertain regulatory environment relating to currency policy. Conducting business in such emerging markets could cause our exposure to changes in exchange rates to increase, due to the relatively high volatility associated with emerging market currencies and potentially longer payment terms for our proceeds.Our ability to hedge foreign currency exposure is dependent on our credit profile with the banks that are willing and able to do business with us. Deterioration in our credit position or a significant tightening of the credit market conditions could limit our ability to hedge our foreign currency exposure; and therefore, result in exchange gains or losses.Sustained declines in worldwide oil prices could adversely affect trading prices of our common shares.Worldwide oil prices have recently declined. Oil is used as a fuel for electricity generation in only a small percentage of applications worldwide, compared to natural gas or coal-fired electricity generation and other forms of electricity generation, and accordingly, fluctuations in oil prices generally do not have a significant direct causal effect on prevailing competitive electricity prices, including electricity from solar sources. Nonetheless, there can be an observed market correlation effect between declining oil prices and depressed equity valuations of solar companies. If oil prices remain low or continue to decline, the trading price of our common shares may suffer.Global sovereign debt issues could adversely impact our business.Potential sovereign debt issues in Europe, emerging markets, and other regions and their impact on the balance sheets and lending practices of global banks in particular could negatively impact our access to, and cost of, capital, and therefore could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. It could also similarly affect our customers and therefore limit the sales of our modules and demand for our systems business as well. Sovereign debt problems may also cause governments to reduce, eliminate or allow to expire government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy, which could limit our growth or cause our net sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We are subject to litigation risks, including securities class actions and stockholder derivative actions, which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. From time to time, we are subject to legal claims, with and without merit, that may be costly and which may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. In addition, our projects may be subject to litigation or other adverse proceedings that may adversely impact our ability to proceed with construction or sell a given project, which would adversely affect our ability to recognize revenue with respect to such project. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover,  39Table of Contentsmany of the complaints filed against us do not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek, and we therefore are unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. Certain of these lawsuits assert types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial damages, and an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits, or any future lawsuits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Even if these lawsuits, or any future lawsuits, are not resolved against us, the costs of defending such lawsuits, may be costly, and may not be covered by our insurance policies. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurance that additional securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. For more information on our legal proceedings, including our securities class action and derivative actions, see “Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies,” under the heading “Legal Proceedings” of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our largest stockholder has significant influence over us and its interests may conflict with or differ from interests of other stockholders.Our largest stockholder, consisting collectively of JCL FSLR Holdings, LLC and its beneficiaries and JTW Trust No. 1 UAD 9/19/02 and its beneficiaries, each affiliated in the past with the former Estate of John T. Walton (collectively, the “Significant Stockholder”), owned approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock at December 31, 2014. As a result, the Significant Stockholder has substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of the Significant Stockholder could conflict with or differ from interests of other stockholders. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Significant Stockholder could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination which a majority of stockholders may view favorably.If our goodwill and other intangible assets or project assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements should we determine that our goodwill, other intangible assets (e.g., in process research and development (“IPR&D”)) or project assets are impaired. Such a charge might have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations.  As required by accounting rules, we review our goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit that has goodwill is less than its carrying value. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill might not be recoverable include a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in projections of future cash flows and lower future growth rates in our industry. We review IPR&D for impairment on a quarterly basis to determine if the project has been abandoned. If the project has been determined to be abandoned or not recoverable, we would be required to impair the respective IPR&D project. We review project assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We consider a project commercially viable and recoverable if it is anticipated to be sellable for a profit once it is either fully developed or fully constructed. If our projects are not considered commercially viable, we would be required to impair the respective project assets. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of a new U.S. tax legislation, or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding, and other items in inter-company transactions. We are subject to potential tax examinations in these various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our inter-company charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other tax positions and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these potential examinations, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of examinations could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income, and cash flows. In addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, loss of our Malaysian tax holiday, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with tax holidays or differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. A number of proposals for broad reform of the corporate tax system in the U.S. are under evaluation by various legislative and administrative bodies, but it is not possible to determine accurately the overall impact of such proposals on our effective tax rate at this time. 40Table of ContentsCyber attacks or other breaches of our information systems, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our operations rely on our computer systems, hardware, software and networks, as well as those of the third parties with which we do business, to securely process, store and transmit proprietary, confidential and other information, including intellectual property. Such information systems may be compromised by cyber attacks, computer viruses and other events that put the security of our information, and that of the third parties with which we do business, at risk of misappropriation or destruction. Such cyber incidents have become increasingly frequent and sophisticated, targeting or otherwise affecting a wide range of companies, in recent years. While we have instituted security measures to minimize the likelihood and impact of a cyber incident, there is no assurance that these measures, or those of the third parties with which we do business, will be adequate in the future. If these measures fail, valuable information may be lost, our manufacturing, construction, O&M and other operations may be disrupted and our reputation may suffer. We may also be subject to litigation, regulatory action, remedial expenses and financial losses beyond the scope or limits of our insurance coverage. These consequences of a failure of security measures could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business.We may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, and obtain additional financing, if needed, because our Revolving Credit Facility and our Malaysian facility agreements contain, and any of our other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things:•incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees;•create liens;•enter into certain transactions with our affiliates;•sell certain assets; and•declare or pay dividends, make other distributions to stockholders, or make other restricted payments.Under our Revolving Credit Facility and our Malaysian facility agreements, we are also subject to certain financial covenants. Our ability to comply with covenants under our credit agreements is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements and any of our other future debt agreements, which if not cured or waived, could permit the holders thereof to accelerate such debt and could cause cross-defaults under our other facility agreements and the possible acceleration of debt under such other facility agreements, as well as cross-defaults under certain of our key project and operational agreements and could also result in requirements to post additional security instruments to secure future obligations. In addition, we cannot assure you that events that occur within the Company, or in the industry or the economy as a whole, will not constitute material adverse effects under these agreements. If it is determined that a material adverse effect has occurred, the lenders can, under certain circumstances, restrict future borrowings or accelerate the due date of outstanding loan balances. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may in the future not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, and we may experience cross-defaults under our other debt agreements or project and key operational agreements, which could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Item 1B