Item 1A: Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties
    described under this section.


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1:  

    
    Business





 


    We design and manufacture solar modules using a proprietary thin
    film semiconductor technology that has allowed us to reduce our
    average solar module manufacturing costs to among the lowest in
    the world. In 2008, our average manufacturing costs were $1.08
    per watt, which we believe is significantly less than those of
    traditional crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers. By
    continuing to expand production and improve our technology and
    manufacturing process, we believe that we can further reduce our
    manufacturing costs per watt and maintain our cost advantage
    over traditional crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers.


 


    We manufacture our solar modules on high-throughput production
    lines and perform all manufacturing steps ourselves in an
    automated, proprietary, continuous process. Our solar modules
    employ a thin layer of cadmium telluride semiconductor material
    to convert sunlight into electricity. In less than three hours,
    we transform a 2ft × 4ft (60cm × 120cm) sheet of glass
    into a complete solar module, using approximately 1% of the
    semiconductor material used by other manufacturers to produce
    crystalline silicon solar modules. Our manufacturing process
    eliminates the multiple supply chain operators and expensive and
    time consuming batch processing steps that are used to produce a
    crystalline silicon solar module.


 


    We have long-term solar module supply contracts (the “Long
    Term Supply Contracts”) with one U.S. and fifteen
    European project developers, system integrators and operators
    that in the aggregate allow for approximately $5.8 billion
    (4.9 billion denominated in euro at an assumed exchange
    rate of $1.15/€1.00 and 0.2 billion denominated in
    USD) in sales from 2009 to 2013. During 2008, we amended a Long
    Term Supply Contract with one customer, which reduced the volume
    of solar modules delivered to such customer in 2008  and also
    reduced the volume of solar modules to be delivered over the
    remaining term of the agreement to such customer. During
    February 2009 we amended our Long Term Supply Contracts
    with two customers to accelerate the decline in the sales price
    per watt under such contracts in 2009 and 2010 in exchange for
    increases in the volume of solar modules to be delivered under
    such contracts. We are currently in discussions with several
    other customers about making similar amendments to their Long
    Term Supply Contracts.



    
    3



Table of Contents




    Our customers typically develop, own and operate solar power
    plants or sell turnkey solar power plants to end-users that
    include owners of land, owners of agricultural buildings, owners
    of commercial warehouses, offices and industrial buildings,
    public agencies, municipal government authorities, utility
    companies and financial investors that desire to own large scale
    solar power plant projects.


 


    In order to satisfy our contractual requirements, we expanded
    our manufacturing capacity with the construction of four
    plants — each with four production lines —
    at our Malaysian manufacturing center. In August 2006, we
    expanded our Ohio plant from one to three production lines. In
    April 2007, we started initial production at a four line
    manufacturing plant in Germany, which reached its full capacity
    in the third quarter of 2007. Also in April 2007, we began
    construction of plant one of our Malaysian manufacturing center.
    In the third and fourth quarters of 2007, we began construction
    of plants two and three, respectively; and in the first quarter
    of 2008, we began construction of plant four. We completed the
    qualification of plants one and two of our Malaysian
    manufacturing center for full volume production in the second
    half of 2008. We expect plants three and four of our Malaysian
    manufacturing center to reach full capacity in the first half of
    2009. Further, in October 2008, we commenced construction of our
    Ohio plant expansion, which is expected to include an additional
    production line and approximately 500,000 square feet of
    manufacturing, research and development and office space. We
    expect to complete plant construction in the first half of 2009,
    with full volume production expected by the second quarter of
    2010. After plant four of our Malaysian manufacturing center and
    the Ohio expansion reach full capacity, we expect to have 24
    production lines and an annual global manufacturing capacity of
    approximately 1145MW by the end of 2010 (based on the fourth
    quarter of 2008 average per line run rate at our existing
    plants).


 



    Acquisition
    of Turner Renewable Energy, LLC


 


    On November 30, 2007, we completed the acquisition of
    Turner Renewable Energy, LLC, a privately held company which
    designed and deployed commercial solar power system projects for
    utilities and Fortune 500 companies in the United States.
    We have integrated the operations from this acquisition into our
    solar power systems and project development business. This
    business sells solar power systems directly to system owners.
    These systems include both our solar modules and balance of
    system components that we procure from third parties. We also
    sell integrated services related to the development of
    commercial solar projects in the United States, such as system
    design, engineering, procurement of permits and balance of
    system components, construction management, monitoring and
    maintenance as part of a system solution delivery. This
    acquisition has created a platform for our systems business in
    North America to deliver solar electricity solutions to utility
    companies.


 



    Products


 



    Solar
    Modules


 


    Each solar module is approximately 2ft × 4ft (60cm ×
    120cm) and had an average rated power of approximately 73 watts,
    70 watts and 64 watts for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our
    solar module is a single-junction polycrystalline thin film
    structure that uses cadmium telluride as the absorption layer
    and cadmium sulfide as the window layer. Cadmium telluride has
    absorption properties that are highly matched to the solar
    spectrum and has the potential to deliver competitive conversion
    efficiencies with approximately 1% of the semiconductor material
    used by traditional crystalline silicon solar modules. Our thin
    film technology also has relatively high energy performance in
    low light and high temperature environments compared with
    traditional crystalline silicon solar modules.


 



    Certifications


 


    We have participated, or are currently participating, in
    laboratory and field tests with the National Renewable Energy
    Laboratory, the Arizona State University Photovoltaic Testing
    Laboratory, the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy, TÜV
    Immissionsschutz und Energiesysteme GmbH and the Institute
    für Solar Energieversorgungstechnik. Currently, we have
    approximately 10,000 solar modules installed worldwide at test
    sites designed to collect data for field performance validation.
    Using data logging equipment, we also monitor more than one
    million solar modules, representing approximately 69MW of
    installed photovoltaic systems, in use by end-users that have
    purchased



    
    4



Table of Contents




    systems using our solar modules. The modules in these monitored
    systems represent approximately 11% of all the solar modules we
    shipped from 2002 through 2008.


 


    We maintain all certifications required to sell solar modules in
    the markets we serve or expect to serve, including UL 1703, IEC
    61646, Safety Class II and CE.


 



    Solar
    Module Warranty


 


    We provide a limited warranty against defects in materials and
    workmanship under normal use and service conditions for five
    years following delivery to the owners of our solar modules. We
    also warrant to the owner of our solar modules that solar
    modules installed in accordance with
    agreed-upon
    specifications will produce at least 90% of their power output
    rating during the first 10 years following their
    installation and at least 80% of their power output rating
    during the following 15 years. In resolving claims under
    both the defects and power output warranties, we have the option
    of either repairing or replacing the covered solar module or,
    under the power output warranty, providing additional solar
    modules to remedy the power shortfall. Our warranties are
    automatically transferred from the original purchaser of our
    solar modules to a subsequent purchaser. As of December 27,
    2008, our accrued warranty liability was $11.9 million; of
    which, $4.0 million was classified as current and
    $7.9 million was classified as non-current.


 



    Collection
    and Recycling Program


 


    End-users can return their solar modules to us at any time for
    collection and recycling at no cost. We pre-fund the estimated
    collection and recycling cost at the time of sale, assuming for
    this purpose a minimum service life of approximately
    20 years for our solar modules. In addition to achieving
    substantial environmental benefits, our solar module collection
    and recycling program may provide us the opportunity to resell
    or redistribute working modules or recover certain raw materials
    and components for reuse in our manufacturing process. We have
    developed a recycling process for manufacturing scrap, warranty
    returns and end of life modules that produces glass suitable for
    use in the production of new glass products and extracts metals
    that will be further processed by a third party supplier to
    produce semiconductor materials for reuse in our solar modules.


 



    Services


 


    Our solar power systems and project development business
    provides a variety of integrated services to our customers as
    part of a system solution delivery. These services include solar
    power system design, procurement of permits and balance of
    system components, construction management, monitoring and
    maintenance.


 



    Manufacturing


 



    Manufacturing
    Process


 


    We have integrated our manufacturing processes into a
    continuous, integrated production line with the following three
    stages: the “deposition” stage, the “cell
    definition” stage, and the “assembly and test”
    stage. In the deposition stage, panels of treated glass are
    robotically loaded onto the production line where they are
    cleaned, heated and coated with a layer of cadmium sulfide
    followed by a layer of cadmium telluride using our proprietary
    vapor transport deposition technology, after which the
    semiconductor-coated plates are cooled rapidly to increase
    strength. In our cell definition stage, we use high speed lasers
    to transform the large single semiconductor-coated plate into a
    series of interconnected cells that deliver the desired current
    and voltage output. Our proprietary laser scribing technology is
    capable of accomplishing accurate and complex scribes at high
    speeds. Finally, in the assembly and test stage, we apply
    busbars, laminate, a rear glass cover sheet and termination
    wires, seal the joint box and subject each solar module to a
    solar simulator and current leakage test. The final assembly
    stage is the only stage in our production line that requires
    manual processing.


 


    Historically, all of our solar modules were produced at our
    Perrysburg, Ohio facility, which has received both an ISO
    9001:2000 quality system certification and ISO 14001:2004
    environmental system certification. In April 2007, we started
    initial production at our manufacturing facility in
    Frankfurt/Oder, Germany which has received all applicable
    licenses and permits to operate in accordance with German law
    and has received both an ISO 9001:2000



    
    5



Table of Contents




    quality system certification and ISO 14001:2004 environmental
    system certification. In April 2008, we started initial
    production at plant one of our manufacturing center in Kulim,
    Malaysia which has received an ISO 9001:2000 quality system
    certification and we anticipate the Malaysian manufacturing
    center will obtain an ISO 14001:2004 environmental system
    certification in the second quarter of 2009.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Our manufacturing process uses approximately 20 types of raw
    materials and components to construct a complete solar module.
    Of these raw materials and components, the following nine are
    critical to our manufacturing process: TCO coated front glass,
    cadmium sulfide, cadmium telluride, photo resist, laminate,
    tempered back glass, cord plate/cord plate cap, lead wire (UL
    and TÜV) and solar connectors. Before we use these
    materials and components in our manufacturing process, a
    supplier must undergo a qualification process that can last up
    to 12 months, depending on the type of raw material or
    component. Although we continually evaluate new suppliers and
    currently are qualifying several new suppliers, a few of our
    critical materials or components are sole sourced and most
    others are supplied by a limited number of suppliers. One
    critical raw material in our production process is cadmium
    telluride.


 



    Customers


 


    We have Long Term Supply Contracts with sixteen principal
    customers for the sale of solar modules. These customers include
    solar power system project developers, system integrators and
    operators of renewable energy projects that are headquartered
    throughout the European Union and the United States. The Long
    Term Supply Contracts in the aggregate allow for approximately
    $5.8 billion (4.9 billion denominated in euro at an
    assumed exchange rate of $1.15/€1.00 and 0.2 billion
    denominated in USD) in sales from 2009 to 2013. During 2008, we
    amended a Long Term Supply Contract with one customer, which
    reduced the volume of solar modules delivered to such customer
    in 2008 and also reduced the volume of solar modules to be
    delivered over the remaining term of the agreement to such
    customer. During February 2009 we amended our Long Term
    Supply Contracts with two customers to accelerate the decline in
    the sales price per watt under such contracts in 2009 and 2010
    in exchange for increases in the volume of solar modules to be
    delivered under such contracts. We are currently in discussions
    with several other customers about making similar amendments to
    their Long Term Supply Contracts.


 


    During 2008, our principal customers were Blitzstrom GmbH,
    Colexon Energy AG (previously Reinecke + Pohl), Conergy AG, Juwi
    Solar GmbH and Phoenix Solar AG. During 2008, each of these five
    customers individually accounted for between 11% and 19% of our
    net sales. All of our other customers individually accounted for
    less than 10% of our net sales during 2008. The loss of any of
    our major customers could have an adverse effect on our
    business. As we expand our manufacturing capacity, we are
    seeking to develop additional customer relationships in other
    markets and regions, which would reduce our customer and
    geographic concentration and dependence.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    Since 2003, our focus has been on grid-connected ground or large
    roof mounted solar power systems in Germany and other European
    Union countries with feed-in tariff subsidies that enable solar
    power system owners to earn a reasonable rate of return on their
    capital. Several of our principal customers were authorized in
    2007 and 2008 to sell our solar modules in the United States. In
    November 2007, we completed the acquisition of Turner Renewable
    Energy, LLC, which has become the basis for developing solar
    electricity solutions for utility companies in the United States
    that are seeking cost-effective renewable energy solutions for
    the purpose of meeting renewable portfolio standard requirements.


 



    Economic
    Incentives


 


    Government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for
    solar electricity generation generally include feed-in tariffs,
    net metering programs, renewable portfolio standards, rebates,
    tax incentives and low interest loans.


 


    Under a feed-in tariff subsidy, the government sets prices that
    regulated utilities are required to pay for renewable
    electricity generated by end-users. The prices are set above
    market rates and may differ based on system



    
    6



Table of Contents




    size or application. Net metering programs enable end-users to
    sell excess solar electricity to their local utility in exchange
    for a credit against their utility bills. The policies governing
    net metering vary by state and utility. Some utilities pay the
    end-user upfront, while others credit the end-user’s bill.
    Under a renewable portfolio standard, the government requires
    regulated utilities to supply a portion of their total
    electricity in the form of renewable electricity. Some programs
    further specify that a portion of the renewable energy quota
    must be from solar electricity, while others provide no specific
    technology requirement for renewable electricity generation.


 


    Tax incentive programs exist in the United States at both the
    federal and state level and can take the form of investment tax
    credits, accelerated depreciation, sales and property tax
    exemptions. At the United States federal level, investment tax
    credits for business and residential solar systems have gone
    through several cycles of enactment and expiration since the
    1980’s. Several state governments also facilitate low
    interest loans for photovoltaic systems, either through direct
    lending, credit enhancement or other programs.


 


    Regulations and policies relating to electricity pricing and
    interconnection also encourage distributive generation with
    photovoltaic systems. Photovoltaic systems generate most of
    their electricity during
    mid-day and
    the early afternoon hours when the demand for and cost of
    electricity is highest. As a result, electricity generated by
    photovoltaic systems mainly competes with expensive peak hour
    electricity, rather than the lower average price of electricity.
    Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities,
    such as to a flat rate, would require photovoltaic systems to
    achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of
    electricity. In addition, interconnection policies often enable
    the owner of a photovoltaic system to feed solar electricity
    into the power grid without interconnection costs or standby
    fees.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering


 


    We continue to devote a substantial amount of resources to
    research and development with the objective of lowering the per
    watt price of solar electricity generated by photovoltaic
    systems. With the objective of reducing the per watt
    manufacturing cost of electricity generated by photovoltaic
    systems using our solar modules, we focus our research and
    development on the following areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increase the conversion efficiency of our solar
    modules.  We believe the most promising ways of
    increasing the conversion efficiency of our solar modules are
    maximizing the number of photons that reach the absorption layer
    of the semiconductor material so that they can be converted into
    electrons, maximizing the number of electrons that reach the
    surface of the semiconductor and minimizing the electrical
    losses between the semiconductor layer and the back metal
    conductor.




 



     
        • 

    
    System optimization.  We are also working to
    reduce the cost and optimize the effectiveness of the other
    components in a photovoltaic system. We maintain a substantial
    effort to collect and analyze actual field performance data from
    photovoltaic systems that use our modules. We continuously
    collect data from test sites comprising approximately 10,000
    modules installed in varying climates and applications. We also
    monitor more than one million solar modules, representing
    approximately 69MW of installed photovoltaic systems, in use by
    end-users that have purchased photovoltaic systems using our
    modules. We use the data collected from these sources to
    correlate field performance to various manufacturing and
    laboratory level metrics, identify opportunities for module and
    process improvement and improve the performance of systems that
    use our modules. In addition, we use this data to enhance
    predictive models and simulations for end-users.





 


    Research and development expenses for the years ended
    December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and
    December 30, 2006 were $33.5 million,
    $15.1 million and $6.4 million, respectively.


 


    We typically qualify process and product improvements for full
    production at our Ohio plant and then use our “Copy
    Smart” process to propagate them to our other production
    lines. Our scientists and engineers collaborate across all
    manufacturing plants to drive improvements. We typically
    implement, validate and qualify improvements at the Ohio plant
    before we deploy them to all of our production lines. We believe
    that this systematic approach to research and development will
    provide continuous improvements and ensure uniform adoption
    across our production lines. In addition, our production lines
    are replicas of each other using our “Copy Smart”
    process, and as a result, a process or production improvement on
    one line can be rapidly deployed to other production lines.



    
    7



Table of Contents




    We maintain active collaborations with the National Renewable
    Energy Laboratory (a division of the United States Department of
    Energy), Brookhaven National Laboratory and several universities.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and
    protect our proprietary technology and to conduct our business
    without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely
    primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks and trade
    secrets, as well as employee and third party confidentiality
    agreements, to safeguard our intellectual property. As of
    December 27, 2008, we held 23 patents in the United States,
    which will expire at various times between 2009 and 2026, and
    had 37 patent applications pending. We also held 17 patents and
    had over 70 patent applications pending in foreign
    jurisdictions. Our patent applications and any future patent
    applications might not result in a patent being issued with the
    scope of the claims we seek, or at all, and any patents we may
    receive may be challenged, invalidated or declared
    unenforceable. We continually assess appropriate occasions for
    seeking patent protection for those aspects of our technology,
    designs and methodologies and processes that we believe provide
    significant competitive advantages.


 


    As of December 27, 2008, we held two trademarks,
    “First Solar” and “First Solar and Design,”
    in the United States. We have also registered our
    “First Solar and Design” mark in China, India, Japan,
    Korea and the European Union and we are seeking registration in
    other countries.


 


    With respect to proprietary know-how that is not patentable and
    processes for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely
    on, among other things, trade secret protection and
    confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We
    believe that many elements of our photovoltaic manufacturing
    process involve proprietary know-how, technology or data that
    are not covered by patents or patent applications, including
    technical processes, equipment designs, algorithms and
    procedures. We have taken security measures to protect these
    elements. All of our research and development personnel have
    entered into confidentiality and proprietary information
    agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual
    property protection issues and require our associates to assign
    to us all of the inventions, designs and technologies they
    develop during the course of employment with us. We also require
    our customers and business partners to enter into
    confidentiality agreements before we disclose any sensitive
    aspects of our solar cells, technology or business plans.


 


    We have not been subject to any material intellectual property
    claims.


 



    Competition


 


    The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly
    competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to
    distinguish themselves within their markets and compete within
    the larger electric power industry. Within the renewable energy
    industry, we compete with other renewable energy technologies
    including hydro, wind, geothermal, bio-mass and tidal. Within
    the solar energy industry, we believe that our main sources of
    competition are crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers,
    other thin film solar module manufacturers and companies
    developing solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic
    technologies. Among photovoltaic module and cell manufacturers,
    the principal methods of competition are price per watt,
    production capacity, conversion efficiency and reliability.


 


    At the end of 2008, the global photovoltaic industry consisted
    of more than 150 manufacturers of solar cells and modules.
    Within the photovoltaic industry, we face competition from
    numerous crystalline silicon solar cell and module
    manufacturers. We also face competition from thin film solar
    module manufacturers.


 


    In addition, we expect to compete with future entrants to the
    photovoltaic industry that offer new technological solutions. We
    may also face competition from semiconductor manufacturers and
    semiconductor equipment manufacturers or their customers,
    several of which have already announced their intention to start
    production of photovoltaic cells, solar modules or turnkey
    production lines. Some of these competitors are larger and have
    greater financial resources, larger production capacities and
    greater brand name recognition than we do and may, as a result,
    be better positioned to adapt to changes in the industry or the
    economy as a whole.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    We also face competition from companies that are developing
    various solar thermal solutions for utility scale power plant
    applications. In addition to manufacturers of solar photovoltaic
    equipment, we face competition from companies developing
    concentrating photovoltaic systems and other renewable energy
    technologies.


 


    Our solar power products and services also compete against other
    power generation sources supplied by utilities that burn
    conventional fossil fuels.


 


    As we develop our solar power systems and development business
    and begin to offer solar electricity solutions to utilities, we
    expect to face competition from other providers of renewable
    energy solutions, including developers of photovoltaic, solar
    thermal and concentrated solar power systems and from developers
    of alternate forms of renewable energy projects.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Our manufacturing operations include the use, handling, storage,
    transportation, generation and disposal of hazardous materials.
    We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws
    and regulations relating to the protection of the environment,
    including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the
    air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous
    materials and wastes, occupational health and safety and the
    cleanup of contaminated sites. Therefore, we could incur
    substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or
    criminal sanctions and costs arising from third party property
    damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of
    or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with
    environmental permits required at our facilities. We believe we
    are currently in substantial compliance with applicable
    environmental requirements and do not expect to incur material
    capital expenditures for environmental controls in the
    foreseeable future. However, future developments such as more
    aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more
    stringent laws and regulations or the discovery of unknown
    environmental conditions may require expenditures that could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations
    and/or
    financial condition. See “Item 1A: Risk
    Factors — Environmental obligations and liabilities
    could have a substantial negative impact on our financial
    condition, cash flows and profitability.”


 



    Associates


 


    As of December 27, 2008, we had 3,524 associates (our term
    for full and part-time employees), including 2,912 in
    manufacturing. The remainder of our associates are in research
    and development, sales and marketing and general and
    administrative positions. None of our associates are represented
    by labor unions or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
    As we expand domestically and internationally, however, we may
    encounter associates who desire union representation. We believe
    that our relations with our associates are good.


 



    Information
    About Geographic Areas


 


    We have significant marketing, distribution and manufacturing
    operations both within and outside the United States. In
    2008, 94% of our net sales were generated from customers
    headquartered in the European Union. In the future, we expect to
    expand our operations in other European and Asian countries, and
    as a result, we will be subject to the legal, tax, political,
    social and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of
    many jurisdictions. The international nature of our operations
    subject us to a number of risks, including fluctuations in
    exchange rates, adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory
    requirements, and tariffs, taxes and other trade restrictions.
    See “Item 1A: Risk Factors — Our substantial
    international operations subject us to a number of risks,
    including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax
    conditions in foreign countries.” See also Note 23,
    “Segment and Geographical Information,” to our
    consolidated financial statements referenced in Item 15 of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for information about our net sales by geographic region for the
    years ended December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and
    December 30, 2006, and see our Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in
    Item 7 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for other information about our operations and activities in
    various geographic regions.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    Available
    Information


 


    We maintain a website at
    http://www.firstsolar.com.
    We make available free of charge on our website our annual
    reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or
    furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
    Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to,
    the SEC. The information contained in or connected to our
    website is not incorporated by reference into this report.


 


    The public may also read and copy any materials that we file
    with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The
    public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
    Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports
    and other information regarding issuers, such as First Solar,
    that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet
    website is located at
    http://www.sec.gov.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Our executive officers and their ages and positions as of
    December 27, 2008 are as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    Michael J. Ahearn



 

 


    52

 


 


    Chief Executive Officer, Chairman





    Bruce Sohn



 

 


    47

 


 


    President, Director





    Jens Meyerhoff



 

 


    44

 


 


    Chief Financial Officer





    John T. Gaffney



 

 


    48

 


 


    Executive Vice President and Corporate Secretary





    Mary Beth Gustafsson



 

 


    48

 


 


    Vice President, General Counsel





    John Carrington



 

 


    42

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Global Marketing and Business
    Development








 


    Michael J. Ahearn has served as the CEO and Chairman of First
    Solar since August 2000. Mr. Ahearn also served as
    President of First Solar from August 2000 to March 2007. From
    1996 until November 2006, he was a Partner and President of the
    equity investment firm JWMA Partners, LLC, or JWMA (formerly
    True North Partners, LLC). Prior to joining JWMA,
    Mr. Ahearn practiced law as a partner in the firm of
    Gallagher & Kennedy. He received both a B.A. in
    Finance and a J.D. from Arizona State University.


 


    Bruce Sohn was elected a director of First Solar in July 2003
    and has served as President of First Solar since March 2007.
    Prior to joining First Solar as President, Mr. Sohn worked
    at Intel Corporation for 24 years. He is a senior member of
    IEEE and a certified Jonah. Mr. Sohn has been a guest
    lecturer at several universities, including the Massachusetts
    Institute of Technology and Stanford University. He graduated
    from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degree in
    Materials Science and Engineering.


 


    Jens Meyerhoff joined First Solar in May 2006 as Chief Financial
    Officer. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Meyerhoff was
    the Chief Financial Officer of Virage Logic Corporation, a
    provider of embedded memory intellectual property for the design
    of integrated circuits, from January 2006 to May 2006.
    Mr. Meyerhoff was employed by FormFactor, Inc., a
    manufacturer of advanced wafer probe cards, as Chief Operating
    Officer from April 2004 to July 2005, Senior Vice President of
    Operations from January 2003 to April 2004 and Chief Financial
    Officer from August 2000 to March 2005. Mr. Meyerhoff holds
    a German Wirtschaftsinformatiker degree, which is the equivalent
    of a Finance and Information Technology degree, from Daimler
    Benz’s Executive Training Program.


 


    John T. Gaffney joined First Solar in January 2008 as Executive
    Vice President and Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining First
    Solar, Mr. Gaffney practiced law at the firm of Cravath,
    Swaine & Moore LLP, where he was a partner since 1993.
    During his time at Cravath, Mr. Gaffney served as a key
    advisor to First Solar and advised numerous corporate and
    financial institution clients on merger, acquisition and capital
    markets transactions. Mr. Gaffney holds a B.A. from The
    George Washington University and an M.B.A. and J.D. from
    New York University.


 


    Mary Beth Gustafsson joined First Solar in October 2008 as Vice
    President, General Counsel. Prior to joining First Solar,
    Ms. Gustafsson was the Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary of Trane Inc. (formerly American Standard
    Companies Inc.) from January 2005 through June 2008. From June
    2008 through September



    
    10



Table of Contents




    2008, Ms. Gustafsson was Vice President and Deputy General
    Counsel of Ingersoll-Rand Ltd., following Ingersoll-Rand’s
    acquisition of Trane. From 2001 through 2005,
    Ms. Gustafsson held positions of increasing responsibility
    at American Standard Companies Inc., including Chief Corporate
    Counsel and General Counsel for the company’s global air
    conditioning business. Ms. Gustafsson holds a B.A. in
    English Literature from Boston University, and a J.D. from The
    University of Michigan Law School.


 


    John Carrington joined First Solar in May 2008 as Executive Vice
    President, Global Marketing & Business Development.
    Mr. Carrington brings extensive global marketing experience
    from his leadership positions with General Electric spanning
    more than 15 years. Mr. Carrington previously served
    as general manager and chief marketing officer of General
    Electric Plastics (recently sold and re-named SABIC Innovative
    Plastics). While at GE, he also served as General Manager of
    automotive marketing in Tokyo, Japan; Pacific Marketing Director
    in Tokyo; and Commercial Director for GE’s Noryl resin
    business in Selkirk, New York. Mr. Carrington holds a B.A.
    in Economics and Marketing from the University of Colorado.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    An investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You
    should carefully consider the following information, together
    with the other information in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    before buying shares of our stock. If any of the following risks
    or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected
    and the trading price of our stock could decline.


 



    An
    increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the
    supply of capital in the global financial markets could make it
    difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and
    could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to a
    reduction in the average selling price for photovoltaic
    modules.


 


    Many of our end-users depend on debt financing to fund the
    initial capital expenditure required to purchase and install a
    PV system. As a result, an increase in interest rates or lending
    rates could make it difficult for our end-users to secure the
    financing necessary to purchase and install a PV system on
    favorable terms, or at all and thus lower demand for our solar
    modules and reduce our net sales. Due to the overall economic
    outlook, our end-users may change their decision or change the
    timing of their decision to purchase and install a PV system. In
    addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our
    end-users install PV systems as an investment, funding the
    initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and
    debt. An increase in interest rates and/or lending rates could
    lower an investor’s return on investment in a PV system, or
    make alternative investments more attractive relative to
    PV systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users
    to seek alternative investments. A reduction in the supply of
    project debt financing or tax equity investments could reduce
    the number of solar projects that receive financing and thus
    lower demand for solar modules.


 


    We currently sell a substantial portion of our solar modules
    under Long Term Supply Contracts, and we allocate a significant
    amount of our production to satisfy our obligations under these
    contracts. These customers buy our modules with the expectation
    that they will be able to resell them in connection with the
    development of PV systems. As discussed above, many of these
    projects depend on the availability of debt and equity
    financing. A prolonged, material disruption to the supply of
    project finance could adversely affect our customers’
    ability to perform under these agreements. In the event of
    default by one or more of these customers, we may be unable to
    sell these modules at the prices specified in our Long Term
    Supply Contracts, especially if demand for PV systems softens or
    supplies of solar modules increase. Also, we may decide to lower
    our average selling price to certain customers in certain
    markets in response to changes in economic circumstances of our
    customers, their end markets or the capital markets.


 



    We
    currently depend on a limited number of customers, with five
    customers accounting for substantially all of our net sales last
    year. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from,
    any of these customers could significantly reduce our net sales
    and negatively impact our operating results.


 


    We currently sell substantially all of our solar modules to
    customers headquartered throughout the European Union. During
    2008, our five largest customers each accounted for between 11%
    and 19% of our net sales. The loss



    
    11



Table of Contents




    of any of our large customers, their inability to perform under
    their contracts, or their default in payment could significantly
    reduce our net sales and adversely impact our operating results.
    Our customers face significant challenges under current economic
    conditions, including lack of capital to finance solar projects
    and rising costs associated with leasing or otherwise acquiring
    land and rooftops for solar projects. We believe that we can
    mitigate this risk by re-allocating modules to other customers
    if the need arises, but we may be unable, in whole or in part,
    to mitigate the reduced demand for our modules. In the event
    that we determine that our planned production of solar modules
    exceeds the demand we anticipate, we may decide to reduce or
    halt production of solar modules in our manufacturing
    facilities. However, we may be unable to anticipate and respond
    to the oversupply of solar modules because we have limited
    visibility into our customers’ inventories.


 



    Our
    limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to
    judge our future prospects and results of
    operations.


 


    We have a limited operating history. Although we began
    developing our predecessor technology in 1987, we did not launch
    commercial operations until we qualified our pilot production
    line in January 2002. We qualified the first production line at
    our Ohio plant in November 2004, the second and third production
    lines at our Ohio plant in August 2006, our German plant in the
    third quarter of 2007, and portions of our Malaysian plants in
    2008. Because these production lines have only been in operation
    for a limited period of time, our historical operating results
    may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business,
    financial performance and prospects. While our net sales grew
    from $48.1 million in 2005 to $1,246.3 million in
    2008, we may be unable to achieve similar growth, or grow at
    all, in future periods. Our ability to achieve similar growth in
    future periods is also affected by current economic conditions.
    Our past results occurred in an environment where, among other
    things, capital was generally more accessible to our customers
    to finance the cost of developing solar projects. Accordingly,
    you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior
    period as an indication of our future performance.


 



    We
    face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline
    silicon solar modules, thin film solar modules and solar thermal
    and concentrated photovoltaic systems; if global supply exceeds
    global demand, it could lead to a reduction in the average
    selling price for photovoltaic modules.


 


    The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly
    competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to
    distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the
    larger electric power industry. Within the global photovoltaic
    industry, we face competition from crystalline silicon solar
    module manufacturers, other thin film solar module manufacturers
    and companies developing solar thermal and concentrated
    photovoltaic technologies.


 


    Even if demand for solar modules continues to grow, the rapid
    expansion plans of many solar cell and module manufacturers
    could create periods where supply exceeds demand. In addition,
    we believe the significant decrease in the cost of silicon
    feedstock will provide significant reductions in the
    manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules and lead
    to pricing pressure for solar modules and potentially the
    oversupply of solar modules, including in key markets such as
    Germany and Spain.


 


    During any such period, our competitors could decide to reduce
    their sales price, even below their manufacturing cost, in order
    to generate sales. As a result, we may be unable to sell our
    solar modules at attractive prices, or for a profit, during any
    period of excess supply of solar modules, which would reduce our
    net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Also,
    we may decide to lower our average selling price to certain
    customers in certain markets in response to competition.


 



    Thin
    film technology has a short history and our thin film technology
    and solar modules may perform below expectations; problems with
    product quality or performance may cause us to incur warranty
    expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from
    maintaining or increasing our market share.


 


    Researchers began developing thin film semiconductor technology
    over 20 years ago, but were unable to integrate the
    technology into a solar module production line until recently.
    Our oldest active production line has only been in operation
    since November 2004 and the oldest solar modules manufactured
    during the qualification of



    
    12



Table of Contents




    our pilot line have only been in use since 2001. As a result,
    our thin film technology and solar modules do not have a
    sufficient operating history to confirm how our solar modules
    will perform over their estimated
    25-year
    useful life. We perform a variety of quality and life tests
    under different conditions. However, if our thin film technology
    and solar modules perform below expectations, we could lose
    customers and face substantial warranty expense.


 


    Our solar modules are sold with a five year materials and
    workmanship warranty for technical defects and a twenty-five
    year warranty against declines of more than 10% of their initial
    rated power in the first 10 years following their
    installation and 20% of initial rated power in the following
    15 years, respectively. As a result, we bear the risk of
    extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our solar
    modules and recognized net sales. As of December 27, 2008,
    our accrued warranty liability was $11.9 million; of which,
    $4.0 million was classified as current and
    $7.9 million was classified as non-current.


 


    While our power output warranty extends for twenty-five years,
    our oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification
    of our pilot production line have only been in use since 2001.
    Because of the limited operating history of our solar modules,
    we have been required to make assumptions regarding the
    durability and reliability of our solar modules. Our assumptions
    could prove to be materially different from the actual
    performance of our solar modules, causing us to incur
    substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules
    in the future. For example, our
    glass-on-glass
    solar modules could break, delaminate or experience power
    degradation in excess of expectations. Any widespread product
    failures may damage our market reputation and cause our sales to
    decline and require us to repair or replace the defective
    modules, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial results.


 



    If our
    estimates regarding the future cost of collecting and recycling
    our solar modules are incorrect, we could be required to accrue
    additional expenses at and from the time we realize our
    estimates are incorrect and face a significant unplanned cash
    burden when our end-users return their solar
    modules.


 


    We pre-fund our estimated future obligation for collecting and
    recycling our solar modules based on the present value of the
    expected future cost of collecting and recycling the modules,
    which, includes the cost of packaging the solar modules for
    transport, the cost of freight from the solar module’s
    installation site to a recycling center, the material, labor and
    capital costs of the recycling process and an estimated
    third-party profit margin and return on risk for collection and
    recycling. We base our estimate on our experience collecting and
    recycling solar modules that do not pass our quality control
    tests and solar modules returned under our warranty and on our
    expectations about future developments in recycling technologies
    and processes and about economic conditions at the time the
    solar modules will be collected and recycled. If our estimates
    prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional
    expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are
    incorrect and also face a significant unplanned cash burden at
    the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or end-users
    return their solar modules, which could harm our operating
    results. In addition, our end-users can return their solar
    modules at any time. As a result, we could be required to
    collect and recycle our solar modules earlier than we expect and
    before recycling technologies and processes improve


 



    Our
    failure to further refine our technology and develop and
    introduce improved photovoltaic products could render our solar
    modules uncompetitive or obsolete and reduce our net sales and
    market share.


 


    We will need to invest significant financial resources in
    research and development to keep pace with technological
    advances in the solar energy industry. However, research and
    development activities are inherently uncertain and we could
    encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research
    results. Our significant expenditures on research and
    development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other
    companies are developing a variety of competing photovoltaic
    technologies, including copper indium gallium diselenide and
    amorphous silicon, which could produce solar modules that prove
    more cost-effective or have better performance than our solar
    modules. As a result, our solar modules may be rendered obsolete
    by the technological advances of our competitors, which could
    reduce our net sales and market share.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    If
    photovoltaic technology is not suitable for widespread adoption,
    or if sufficient demand for solar modules does not develop or
    takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our net sales may
    flatten or decline and we may be unable to sustain
    profitability.


 


    The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of
    development and the extent to which solar modules will be widely
    adopted is uncertain. If photovoltaic technology proves
    unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for solar
    modules fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow
    our business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain
    profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules in our
    targeted markets — including Germany, Spain, France,
    Italy and the United States — may not develop or may
    develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may
    affect the viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic
    technology and demand for solar modules, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    cost-effectiveness of solar modules compared to conventional and
    other non-solar renewable energy sources and products, including
    conventional energy sources such as natural gas that have
    experienced recent price reductions making it more difficult for
    PV plants to compete on a cost per watt basis;




 



     
        • 

    
    performance and reliability of solar modules and thin film
    technology compared to conventional and other non-solar
    renewable energy sources and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability and substance of government subsidies and
    incentives to support the development of the solar energy
    industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such
    as hydroelectric, tidal, wind, geothermal, solar thermal,
    concentrated photovoltaic, and biomass;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the
    price of, and demand for, conventional and non-solar renewable
    energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of
    oil, natural gas and other fossil fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar
    modules, which tend to decrease when the economy slows and
    interest rates increase; and




 



     
        • 

    
    deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader
    energy industry to permit wide spread adoption of solar
    electricity.





 



    Reduced
    growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of
    government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for
    on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for
    our solar modules, lead to a reduction in our net sales and
    adversely impact our operating results.


 


    Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of
    government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for
    on-grid solar electricity may result in the diminished
    competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and
    non-solar renewable sources of energy, and could materially and
    adversely affect the growth of the solar energy industry and our
    net sales. We believe that the near-term growth of the market
    for on-grid applications, where solar energy is used to
    supplement the electricity a consumer purchases from the utility
    network, depends significantly on the availability and size of
    government subsidies and economic incentives. Federal, state and
    local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably
    Germany, Italy, Spain, France, Greece, Portugal, South Korea,
    Japan, Canada and the United States, have provided subsidies in
    the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax incentives and other
    incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and
    manufacturers of photovoltaic products. Many of these government
    incentives expire, phase out over time or require renewal by the
    applicable authority.


 


    For example, the German Renewable Energy Law, or the EEG, has
    recently been modified by the German Government.
    Feed-in-tariffs
    were significantly reduced compared with the former legislation.
    The amended law became effective January 1, 2009. German
    subsidies now decline at a rate of between 8.0% and 10% in 2009
    (based on the type of the photovoltaic system) instead of
    between 5% and 6.5% prior to effective date of the amendment.
    The rate of decrease is subject to change based on the overall
    market growth. For example, the rate of decrease in
    feed-in-tariffs
    in 2010 will be increased by 1% in case the market will be
    larger than 1500 MW or decreased by 1% if it is smaller
    than 1000 MW. The next review of
    feed-in-tariffs
    is scheduled for 2012; however, earlier adjustments



    
    14



Table of Contents




    are possible. If the German government reduces or eliminates the
    subsidies under the EEG, demand for photovoltaic products could
    significantly decline in Germany.


 


    In Spain, which accounted for approximately 6% of our net sales,
    the Spanish government published a new decree for photovoltaics
    on September 27, 2008, which became effective on
    September 28, 2008. The new legislation replaces the
    previous decree, from which it differs in some basic respects.
    It distinguishes between system types, namely between
    roof-mounted and ground-mounted systems, it implements a
    flexible mechanism that links the
    feed-in-tariffs
    to market development along with annual caps and it introduces a
    mechanism of licenses for installations that will be given out
    in four quarterly rounds per annum. The decree fixed an initial
    annual cap of 400 MW, of which 267 MW is reserved for
    roof installations and 133 MW for ground-mounted systems.
    For 2009 and 2010, additional volumes of 100 MW and
    60 MW, respectively, are reserved for ground-mounted
    systems. A decision about a new compensation structure is not
    expected before 2012. With the annual market expansion capped
    for the next three years and
    feed-in-tariffs
    significantly reduced under the revised Spanish Royal Decree,
    demand for photovoltaic products in Spain is expected to decline
    significantly.


 


    In the United States, California has been the State where the
    majority of solar installations have taken place during the past
    five years. Starting January 1, 2007, the California Solar
    Initiative (CSI) has established a goal of installing 3000MW of
    solar generation capacity by 2016 with a State budget of
    $2.2 billion over 10 years. The incentive level
    available to a given project is determined by the currently
    available incentive in each utility territory for each customer
    class. The CSI was designed so that the incentive level
    decreases over ten steps, after which it goes to $0, as the
    total demand for solar energy grows.


 


    In October 2008, the United States Congress extended the 30%
    federal investment tax credit for both residential and
    commercial solar installations for eight years, through
    December 31, 2016. On February 17, 2009, the American
    Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was signed into law. In
    addition to adopting certain fiscal stimulus measures that could
    benefit on-grid solar electricity applications, this act creates
    a new program, through the Department of the Treasury, which
    provides grants equal to 30% of the cost of solar installations
    that are placed into service during 2009 and 2010 or that begin
    construction prior to December 31, 2010 and are placed into
    service by January 1, 2017. This grant is available in lieu
    of receiving the 30% federal investment tax credit. Other
    measures adopted by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
    of 2009 that could benefit on-grid solar electricity generation
    include the following: (1) a Department of Energy loan
    guarantee program for renewable energy projects, renewable
    energy manufacturing facilities and electric power transmission
    projects and (2) a 30% investment credit for assets used to
    manufacture technology for the production of renewable energy.


 


    Emerging subsidy programs, such as the programs in Italy,
    France, Greece, South Korea and Ontario, Canada, may require an
    extended period of time to attain effectiveness because the
    applicable permitting and grid connection processes associated
    with these programs can be lengthy and administratively
    burdensome.


 


    In addition, if any of these statutes or regulations is found to
    be unconstitutional, or is reduced or discontinued for other
    reasons, sales of our solar modules in these countries could
    decline significantly, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business and results of operations. For example,
    the predecessor to the German EEG was challenged in Germany on
    constitutional grounds and in the European Court of Justice as
    impermissible state aid. Although the German Federal High Court
    of Justice dismissed these constitutional concerns and the
    European Court of Justice held that the purchase requirement at
    minimum feed-in tariffs did not constitute impermissible state
    aid, new proceedings challenging the German EEG or comparable
    minimum price regulations in other countries in which we
    currently operate or intend to operate may be initiated.


 


    Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from
    fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources could also lobby
    for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to
    protect their revenue streams. Reduced growth in or the
    reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and
    economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications,
    especially those in our target markets, could cause our net
    sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Many
    of our key raw materials and components are either sole-sourced
    or sourced by a limited number of third-party suppliers and
    their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and
    impair our 



    
    15



Table of Contents




    ability to deliver solar modules to customers in the
    required quality and quantities and at a price that is
    profitable to us.


 


    Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our
    quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could
    interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules
    or increase our manufacturing cost. Many of our key raw
    materials and components are either sole-sourced or sourced by a
    limited number of third-party suppliers. As a result, the
    failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our
    supply chain and impair our operations. In addition, many of our
    suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our
    increasing demand for raw materials and components as we
    implement our planned rapid expansion. We may be unable to
    identify new suppliers or qualify their products for use on our
    production lines in a timely manner and on commercially
    reasonable terms. Raw materials and components from new
    suppliers may also be less suited for our technology and yield
    solar modules with lower conversion efficiencies, higher failure
    rates and higher rates of degradation than solar modules
    manufactured with the raw materials from our current suppliers.
    A constraint on our production may cause us to be unable to meet
    our obligations under our Long Term Supply Contracts, which
    would have an adverse impact on our financial results.


 



    A
    disruption in our supply chain for cadmium telluride, our
    semiconductor material, could interrupt or impair our ability to
    manufacture solar modules.


 


    A key raw material we use in our production process is a cadmium
    telluride compound. Tellurium is mainly produced as a by-product
    of copper refining and its supply is therefore dependent upon
    demand for copper. Currently, we purchase these raw materials
    from a limited number of suppliers. If our current suppliers or
    any of our future suppliers are unable to perform under their
    contracts or purchase orders, our operations could be
    interrupted or impaired. In addition, because our suppliers must
    undergo a lengthy qualification process, we may be unable to
    replace a lost supplier in a timely manner and on commercially
    reasonable terms. Our supply of cadmium telluride could also be
    limited if any of our current suppliers or any of our future
    suppliers is unable to acquire an adequate supply of tellurium
    in a timely manner or at commercially reasonable prices. If our
    competitors begin to use or increase their demand for cadmium
    telluride, supply could be reduced and prices could increase. If
    our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers cannot
    obtain sufficient tellurium, they could substantially increase
    prices or be unable to perform under their contracts. We may be
    unable to pass increases in the cost of our raw materials
    through to our customers because our customer contracts do not
    adjust for raw material price increases and are generally for a
    longer term than our raw material supply contracts. A reduction
    in our production could result in our inability to meet our
    commitments under our Long Term Supply Contracts, all of which
    would have an adverse impact on our financial results.


 



    Our
    future success depends on our ability to build new manufacturing
    plants and add production lines in a cost-effective manner, both
    of which are subject to risks and uncertainties.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to significantly
    increase both our manufacturing capacity and production
    throughput in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we
    cannot do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease
    our cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy
    our contractual obligations or sustain profitability. Our
    ability to expand production capacity is subject to significant
    risks and uncertainties, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    making changes to our production process that are not properly
    qualified or that may cause problems with the quality of our
    solar modules;




 



     
        • 

    
    delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors,
    many of which may be beyond our control, such as our inability
    to secure successful contracts with equipment vendors;




 



     
        • 

    
    our custom-built equipment may take longer and cost more to
    manufacture than expected and may not operate as designed;




 



     
        • 

    
    delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government
    authorities;






    
    16



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    being unable to hire qualified staff; and




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to execute our expansion plans effectively.





 



    If our
    future production lines are not built in line with our committed
    schedules or do not achieve operating metrics similar to our
    existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below
    expectations and cause us to lose customers.


 


    Currently, our production lines have a limited history of
    operating at full capacity. Future production lines could
    produce solar modules that have lower efficiencies, higher
    failure rates and higher rates of degradation than solar modules
    from our existing production lines, and we could be unable to
    determine the cause of the lower operating metrics or develop
    and implement solutions to improve performance. The second and
    third production lines at our Ohio plant, completed in August
    2006, represent a “standard building block” that we
    replicated twice to build the four production lines at our
    German plant. We are using the same systematic replication
    process to build our Malaysian manufacturing center and future
    production facilities, including expansion of our existing
    production facilities. Our replication risk in connection with
    building production lines at our Malaysian manufacturing center
    and other future manufacturing plants could be higher than our
    replication risk was in expanding the Ohio plant because these
    new production lines are located internationally, which could
    entail other factors that will lower their operating metrics. If
    we are unable to systematically replicate our production lines
    to meet our committed schedules and achieve and sustain similar
    operating metrics in our Malaysian manufacturing center and
    future production lines as we have achieved at our existing
    production lines, our manufacturing capacity could be
    substantially constrained, our manufacturing costs per watt
    could increase, and we could lose customers, causing lower net
    sales, higher liabilities and lower net income than we
    anticipate. In addition, we might be unable to produce enough
    solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our
    Long Term Supply Contracts.


 



    Some
    of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced.
    If our manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment
    suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could
    experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our
    contractual requirements.


 


    Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our
    production lines based on designs or specifications that we
    provide to the equipment manufacturer, which then undertakes a
    specialized process to manufacture the custom equipment. As a
    result, the equipment is not readily available from multiple
    vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were
    to become damaged or stop working. If any piece of equipment
    fails, production along the entire production line could be
    interrupted and we could be unable to produce enough solar
    modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our Long
    Term Supply Contracts. In addition, the failure of our equipment
    suppliers to supply equipment in a timely manner or on
    commercially reasonable terms could delay our expansion plans
    and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our
    manufacturing costs, all of which would adversely impact our
    financial results.


 



    If we
    are unable to further increase the number of sellable watts per
    solar module and reduce our manufacturing cost per watt, we will
    be in default under certain of our Long Term Supply Contracts
    and our profitability could decline.


 


    Our Long Term Supply Contracts either (1) require us to
    increase the minimum average number of watts per module over the
    term of the contract or (2) have a price adjustment for
    increases or decreases in the number of watts per module
    relative to a base number of watts per module. Our failure to
    achieve these metrics could reduce our profitability or allow
    some of our customers to terminate their contracts. In addition,
    all of our Long Term Supply Contracts specify a sales price per
    watt that declines by approximately 6.5% at the beginning of
    each year through the expiration date of each contract in 2012.
    Our profitability could decline if we are unable to reduce our
    manufacturing cost per watt by at least the same rate at which
    our contractual prices decrease. Furthermore, our failure to
    reduce cost per watt by increasing our efficiency may impair our
    ability to enter new markets that we believe will require lower
    cost per watt for us to be competitive and may impair our growth
    plans.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    Existing
    regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and
    policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers
    to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products, which may
    significantly reduce demand for our solar modules.


 


    The market for electricity generation products is heavily
    influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government
    regulations and policies concerning the electric utility
    industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities.
    These regulations and policies often relate to electricity
    pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned
    electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of
    other countries, these regulations and policies have been
    modified in the past and may be modified again in the future.
    These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of
    photovoltaic products and investment in the research and
    development of photovoltaic technology. For example, without a
    mandated regulatory exception for photovoltaic systems, utility
    customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for
    putting distributed power generation on the electric utility
    grid. These fees could increase the cost to our end-users of
    using photovoltaic systems and make them less desirable, thereby
    harming our business, prospects, results of operations and
    financial condition. In addition, electricity generated by
    photovoltaic systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour
    electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of
    electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of
    utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require photovoltaic
    systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the
    price of electricity from other sources.


 


    We anticipate that our solar modules and their installation will
    be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with
    national and local ordinances relating to building codes,
    safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and
    metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the
    requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply
    with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or
    utility policies pertaining to our solar modules may result in
    significant additional expenses to us, our resellers and their
    customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction
    in demand for our solar modules.


 



    Environmental
    obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative
    impact on our financial condition, cash flows and
    profitability.


 


    Our operations involve the use, handling, generation,
    processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous
    materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and
    regulations at the national, state, local and international
    level. These environmental laws and regulations include those
    governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water,
    the use, management and disposal of hazardous materials and
    wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and occupational
    health and safety. We have incurred and will continue to incur
    significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with
    these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or
    liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in
    restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our
    being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal
    proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury
    claims, cleanup costs or other costs. While we believe we are
    currently in substantial compliance with applicable
    environmental requirements, future developments such as more
    aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more
    stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently
    unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    In addition, our products contain cadmium telluride and cadmium
    sulfide. Elemental cadmium and certain of its compounds are
    regulated as hazardous due to the adverse health effects that
    may arise from human exposure. Although the risks of exposure to
    cadmium telluride are not believed to be as serious as those
    relating to exposure to elemental cadmium, the chemical,
    physical and toxicological properties of cadmium telluride have
    not been thoroughly investigated and reported. We maintain
    engineering controls to minimize our associate’s exposure
    to cadmium or cadmium compounds and require our associates who
    handle cadmium compounds to follow certain safety procedures,
    including the use of personal protective equipment such as
    respirators, chemical goggles and protective clothing. In
    addition, we believe the risk of exposure to cadmium or cadmium
    compounds from our end-products is limited by the fully
    encapsulated nature of these materials in our products, the
    physical properties of cadmium compounds used in our products as
    well as the implementation in 2005 of our end of life collection
    and recycling program for our solar modules. While we believe
    that these factors and procedures are sufficient to protect our
    associates, end-users and the general public from cadmium
    exposure, we cannot assure that human or



    
    18



Table of Contents




    environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in
    our products will not occur. Any such exposure could result in
    future third-party claims against us, as well as damage to our
    reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our products,
    which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute
    our products. The occurrence of future events such as these
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition or results of operations.


 


    The use of cadmium in various products is also coming under
    increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Future
    regulation in this area could impact the manufacture, sale,
    collection and recycling of cadmium-containing solar modules and
    could require us to make unforeseen environmental expenditures
    or limit our ability to sell and distribute our products. For
    example, the European Union Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste
    Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or the “WEEE
    Directive,” requires manufacturers of certain electrical
    and electronic equipment to be financially responsible for the
    collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of specified
    products sold in the European Union. In addition, European Union
    Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous
    Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, or the
    “RoHS Directive,” restricts the use of certain
    hazardous substances, including cadmium, in specified products.
    Other jurisdictions are considering adopting similar
    legislation. Currently, photovoltaic solar modules in general
    are not subject to the WEEE or RoHS Directives; however, these
    directives allow for future amendments subjecting additional
    products to their requirements and the scope, applicability and
    the products included in the WEEE and RoHS Directives may
    change. In December 2008, the European Commission issued
    its planned revisions of both the WEEE and RoHS Directives. The
    revisions did not include photovoltaic solar modules in the
    scope of either directive. The revisions will now be considered
    by both the European Parliament and the EU Members States as
    part of the normal European Union legislative process, which is
    likely to take one to two years. If, in the future, our solar
    modules become subject to requirements of the WEEE and RoHS
    Directives, we may be required to apply for an exemption. If we
    were unable to obtain an exemption, we would be required to
    redesign our solar modules in order to continue to offer them
    for sale within the European Union, which would be impractical.
    Failure to comply with these directives could result in the
    imposition of fines and penalties, the inability to sell our
    solar modules in the European Union, competitive disadvantages
    and loss of net sales, all of which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    We may
    not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future
    acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt
    our business and management.


 


    In November 2007, we acquired Turner Renewable Energy, LLC and
    in the future, we may acquire additional companies, products or
    technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an
    acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks
    include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the
    acquired company;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies
    or products with our current products and technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies
    during the transition and integration;




 



     
        • 

    
    disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our
    management and employees from other opportunities and challenges
    due to integration issues;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting,
    management information and other administrative systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of
    the acquired business;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to retain key customers, vendors and other business
    partners of the acquired business;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the
    acquired and combined businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for
    acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating
    results;






    
    19



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    potential impairment of our relationships with employees,
    customers, partners, distributors or third party providers of
    technology or products;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify
    significant issues with product quality, architecture and
    development or legal and financial liabilities, among other
    things;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential inability to assert that internal controls over
    financial reporting are effective;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner,
    approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or
    prevent such acquisitions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    potential delay in customer purchasing decisions due to
    uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings.





 


    Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and
    ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired
    businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not
    realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the
    extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition or results of operations.


 



    We may
    be unable to manage the expansion of our operations
    effectively.


 


    We expect to expand our business significantly in order to meet
    our contractual obligations, satisfy demand for our solar
    modules and increase market share. In August 2006, we expanded
    our Ohio plant from one to three production lines. In April
    2007, we started initial production at our four line
    manufacturing plant in Germany, which reached full capacity in
    the third quarter of 2007. Also in April 2007, we began
    construction of plant one of our Malaysian manufacturing center.
    In the third and fourth quarters of 2007, we began construction
    of plants two and three respectively, and in the first quarter
    of 2008, we began construction of plant four. In the second half
    of 2008 we started construction of a one line expansion at our
    plant in Ohio. Following the completion of plant four of our
    Malaysian manufacturing center and the expansion of our Ohio
    plant, we will have grown from one production line to 24
    production lines with an annual global manufacturing capacity of
    approximately 1145MW in four years (based on the fourth quarter
    of 2008 average per line run rate at our existing plants).


 


    To manage the rapid expansion of our operations, we will be
    required to improve our operational and financial systems,
    procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing
    associate base. Our management will also be required to maintain
    and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and other
    third parties and attract new customers and suppliers. In
    addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, systems
    and internal procedures and controls might be inadequate to
    support our future growth. If we cannot manage our growth
    effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market
    opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to
    competitive pressures.


 



    Our
    substantial international operations subject us to a number of
    risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and
    tax conditions in foreign countries.


 


    We have significant marketing, distribution and manufacturing
    operations both within and outside the United States. In
    2008, 94% of our net sales were generated from customers
    headquartered in the European Union. In the future, we expect to
    expand our operations in other European and Asian countries; and
    as a result, we will be subject to the legal, political, social
    and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of many
    jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations,
    include, but are not limited to, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or
    otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other
    restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency
    exchange controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may
    adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars to the
    extent the price of our solar modules and cost of raw materials,
    labor and equipment is denominated in a foreign currency;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property
    rights;






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    risk of nationalization of private enterprises;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in general economic and political conditions in the
    countries in which we operate, including changes in the
    government incentives we are relying on;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory
    requirements, including those with respect to environmental
    protection, export duties and quotas;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and
    other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the price
    of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some
    countries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the
    different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas
    markets in which we offer and sell our solar modules.





 


    Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid
    changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall
    success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to
    succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and
    political conditions. We may not be able to develop and
    implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each
    location where we do business.


 



    Our
    future success depends on our ability to retain our key
    associates and to successfully integrate them into our
    management team.


 


    We are dependent on the services of Michael J. Ahearn, our Chief
    Executive Officer, Bruce Sohn, our President, Jens Meyerhoff,
    our Chief Financial Officer, John Carrington, our Executive Vice
    President Global Marketing and Business Development, John T.
    Gaffney, our Executive Vice President, and other members of our
    senior management team. The loss of Messrs. Ahearn, Sohn,
    Meyerhoff, Carrington, Gaffney, or any other member of our
    senior management team could have a material adverse effect on
    us. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain or
    replace these key associates. Several of our current key
    associates, including Messrs. Ahearn, Sohn, Meyerhoff,
    Carrington and Gaffney are subject to employment conditions or
    arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition
    provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to
    terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract, train and retain key personnel, our
    business may be materially and adversely affected.


 


    Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our
    ability to attract, train and retain management, operations and
    technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel,
    particularly those with expertise in the photovoltaic industry
    and thin film technology, are vital to our success. There is
    substantial competition for qualified technical personnel and we
    cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain our
    technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain
    qualified associates, our business may be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    Our
    failure to protect our intellectual property rights may
    undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our
    intellectual property rights or defend against third-party
    allegations of infringement may be costly.


 


    Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other
    technology, especially our proprietary vapor transport
    deposition process and laser scribing process, is critical to
    our business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our
    existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss
    of valuable technologies. We rely primarily on patents,
    trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other contractual
    restrictions to protect our intellectual property. As of
    December 27, 2008, we held 23 patents in the United States,
    which will expire at various times between 2009 and 2026, and
    had 37 patent applications pending. We also held 17 patents and
    had over 70 patent applications pending in foreign
    jurisdictions. Our existing patents and future patents could be
    challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable.
    We have pending patent applications in the United States and in
    foreign jurisdictions. Our pending patent applications may not
    result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such



    
    21



Table of Contents




    patents may not be sufficient to provide meaningful protection
    against competitors or against competitive technologies.


 


    We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing
    expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade
    secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While
    we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    associates and third parties to protect our intellectual
    property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in
    duration and could be breached and may not provide meaningful
    protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing
    expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event
    of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and
    manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain
    knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development
    or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality
    agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology,
    trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods
    and compounds could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright
    and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in
    some foreign countries, especially any developing countries into
    which we may expand our operations. In some countries we have
    not applied for patent, trademark or copyright protection.


 


    Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary
    technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of
    proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also,
    litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property
    rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and
    scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you
    that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our
    favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management
    attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse
    determination in any such litigation will impair our
    intellectual property rights and may harm our business,
    prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance
    coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all
    costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable
    to recover them from other parties.


 



    We may
    be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third
    parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to
    pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from the
    manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our
    technology.


 


    Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop
    our technology and know-how without infringing or
    misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third
    parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to
    photovoltaic technology patents involve complex scientific,
    legal and factual considerations and analysis and, therefore,
    may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation
    involving claims of patent infringement or violation of
    intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and
    prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition
    proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can
    be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert
    the efforts and resources of our technical and management
    personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or
    proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to
    significant liability to third parties, require us to seek
    licenses from third parties, which may not be available on
    reasonable terms, or at all, or pay ongoing royalties, require
    us to redesign our solar module, or subject us to injunctions
    prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the
    use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result
    in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting
    their purchase or use of our solar modules until the resolution
    of such litigation.


 



    Currency
    translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our net
    sales, cost of sales and gross margins and could result in
    exchange losses.


 


    Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we
    conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of
    most countries in which we operate. As a result, we are subject
    to currency translation and transaction risk. For example, 95%
    and 98.8% of our net sales were outside the United States and
    denominated in euro for the fiscal years ended December 27,
    2008 and December 29, 2007, respectively, and we expect a
    large percentage of our net sales to be outside the United
    States and denominated in foreign currencies in the future. In
    addition, with the expansion of our manufacturing operations
    into Germany and Malaysia, our operating expenses for the plants
    in these countries will be denominated in the local currency.
    Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the
    U.S. dollar could affect our net sales and cost of sales
    and could result in exchange gains or losses. For



    
    22



Table of Contents




    example, the strengthening euro contributed $68.9 million
    to our net sales during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007.
    In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of
    our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a
    sales transaction using a different currency from our reporting
    currency. For example, our Long Term Supply Contracts specify
    fixed pricing in euro through 2012 and do not adjust for changes
    in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. We cannot
    accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate
    fluctuations on our results of operations.


 


    We could also expand our business into emerging markets, many of
    which have an uncertain regulatory environment relating to
    currency policy. Conducting business in such emerging markets
    could cause our exposure to changes in exchange rates to
    increase.


 



    The
    Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have significant
    control over us and their interests may conflict with or differ
    from interests of other stockholder.


 


    Our current majority stockholder, the Estate of John T. Walton
    and its affiliates, including JCL Holdings, LLC, owned 40.6% of
    our outstanding common stock at December 27, 2008. As a
    result, the Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have
    substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder
    approval, including the election of our directors and the
    approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers,
    tender offers and the sale of all or substantially all of our
    assets. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of
    incorporation and by-laws provide that unless and until the
    Estate of John T. Walton, JCL Holdings, LLC, John T.
    Walton’s surviving spouse, descendants, any entity
    (including a trust) that is for the benefit of John T.
    Walton’s surviving spouse or descendants or any entity
    (including a trust) over which any of John T. Walton’s
    surviving spouse, descendants or siblings has voting or
    dispositive power (collectively, the “Estate”)
    collectively owns less than 40% of our common stock then
    outstanding, stockholders holding 40% or more of our common
    stock then outstanding may call a special meeting of the
    stockholders, at which our stockholders could replace our board
    of directors. In addition, unless and until the Estate
    collectively owns less than 40% of our common stock then
    outstanding, stockholder action may be taken by written consent.
    The interests of the Estate could conflict with or differ from
    interests of other stockholders. For example, the concentration
    of ownership held by the Estate could delay, defer or prevent a
    change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or
    other business combination which a majority of stockholders may
    view favorably.


 



    If our
    goodwill or investment in related party becomes impaired we may
    be required to record a significant charge to
    earnings.


 


    We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in
    our financial statements during the period in which any
    impairment of our goodwill or investment in a related party is
    determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations.


 


    Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United
    States of America, we review our amortizable intangible assets
    and investment in related party for impairment when events or
    changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be
    recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at
    least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in
    circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill
    or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include
    a decline in stock price and market capitalization, a decline in
    projections of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our
    industry. Goodwill recorded in connection with the acquisition
    of Turner Renewable Energy, LLC in November 2007 was
    $33.4 million.


 


    In October 2008, we made an equity investment in a company based
    in the United States that supplies solar power plants to
    commercial and residential customers at a total cost of
    $25.0 million. This investment represents an ownership of
    approximately 12% of the voting interest in this company and is
    our only equity interest in that entity. Since our ownership
    interest in this company is less than 20% and we do not exercise
    significant influence over it, we account for this investment
    using the cost method of accounting.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B