Item 1A: Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this
    Form 10-K.
    You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties
    described under this section.


 



    PART I



 



    Item 1:  Business


 


    We design and manufacture solar modules using a proprietary thin
    film semiconductor technology that has allowed us to reduce our
    average solar module manufacturing costs to among the lowest in
    the world. In 2006, our average manufacturing costs were
    $1.40 per watt, which we believe is significantly less than
    those of traditional crystalline silicon solar module
    manufacturers. By continuing to expand production and improve
    our technology and manufacturing process, we believe that we can
    further reduce our manufacturing costs per watt and improve our
    cost advantage over traditional crystalline silicon solar module
    manufacturers.


 


    We manufacture our solar modules on high-throughput production
    lines and perform all manufacturing steps ourselves in an
    automated, continuous process. Our solar modules employ a thin
    layer of cadmium telluride semiconductor material to convert
    sunlight into electricity. We are the first company to integrate
    non-silicon thin film technology into high volume low-cost
    production. In less than three hours, we transform an
    inexpensive 2ft × 4ft
    (60cm × 120cm) sheet of glass into a complete
    solar module, using approximately 1% of the semiconductor
    material used to produce crystalline silicon solar modules. Our
    manufacturing process eliminates the multiple supply chain
    operators and expensive and time consuming batch processing
    steps that are used to produce a crystalline silicon solar
    module. Producing low cost solar modules without crystalline
    silicon has allowed us to grow rapidly to meet market demand
    during a period of time when silicon feedstock supply shortages
    and price volatility are limiting the growth of many of our
    competitors.


 


    Our net sales grew from $13.5 million in 2004 to
    $135.0 million in 2006. Strong market demand, a positive
    customer response to our solar modules and our ability to expand
    production without raw material constraints present us with the
    opportunity to expand sales rapidly and increase market share.
    During 2006, we entered into long-term solar module supply
    contracts (the “Long Term Supply Contracts”) with six
    European project developers and system integrators, which
    initially allowed for approximately €1.2 billion
    ($1.6 billion at an assumed exchanged rate of
    $1.30/€1.00)
    in sales from 2006 to 2011 for the manufacture and sale of a
    total of 795 MW of solar modules. In December 2006, we
    exercised our option under each of our Long Term Supply
    Contracts to increase the sales volumes and extend each contract
    through 2012. We also amended the contracts with four of our
    customers in January 2007 to further increase the sales volumes
    over the duration of each contract. As a result of the



    
    3



Table of Contents




    option exercises and amendments as of January 9, 2007, our
    long term supply contracts allowed for approximately
    €2.3 billion ($3.0 billion at an assumed exchange
    rate of
    $1.30/€1.00)
    in sales from 2006 to 2012 for the manufacture and sale of a
    total of 1,554MW of solar modules, of which 50MW was sold in
    2006. The information in this paragraph is designed to summarize
    the financial terms of the Long Term Supply Contracts and is not
    intended to provide guidance about our future operating results,
    including revenues or profitability.


 


    In order to satisfy our contractual requirements and address
    additional market demand, we are in the process of expanding our
    manufacturing name plate capacity to 175MW annually by the
    second half of 2007. In August 2006, we completed our Ohio
    expansion, adding two 25MW production lines to our existing 25MW
    base plant. We describe our production capacity with a
    “nameplate” rating which means minimum expected annual
    production. Currently, we assign each production line a 25 MW
    nameplate rating. In reality, we expect actual annual production
    per line to exceed 25 MW over time as a result of continuous
    improvement in module throughput and watts per module (or
    conversion efficiency). With the completion of our Ohio
    expansion, we have an annual manufacturing capacity of 75MW and
    are the largest thin film solar manufacturer in the world. We
    are also building a four line 100MW plant in Germany. After our
    German plant reaches full capacity, which we expect to occur
    during the second half of 2007, we will have an annual
    manufacturing capacity of 175MW. On January 25, 2007, we
    announced that we will begin building a 100MW plant in Malaysia
    that is scheduled to begin production in the second half of
    2008. When the Malaysian plant is completed, we expect to have
    annual manufacturing capacity of 275 MW. To complete each
    new production line, we will continue to use a systematic
    replication process that is designed to enable us to add
    production lines rapidly and efficiently and achieve operating
    metrics in new plants that are comparable to the performance of
    our base plant.


 



    Products


 



    Solar
    Modules


 


    Each solar module is approximately 2ft × 4ft
    (60cm × 120cm) and had an average rated power of
    approximately 64 watts for 2006. Our solar module is a
    single-junction polycrystalline thin film structure that employs
    cadmium telluride as the absorption layer and cadmium sulfide as
    the window layer. Cadmium telluride has absorption properties
    that are highly matched to the solar spectrum and has the
    potential to deliver competitive conversion efficiencies with
    approximately 1% of the semiconductor material used by
    traditional crystalline silicon solar modules. Our thin film
    technology also has relatively high energy performance in low
    light and high temperature environments compared to traditional
    crystalline silicon solar modules.


 



    Certifications


 


    We have participated, or are currently participating, in
    laboratory and field tests with the National Renewable Energy
    Laboratory, the Arizona State University Photovoltaic Testing
    Laboratory, the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy, TÜV
    Immissionsschutz und Energiesysteme GmbH and the Institute
    für Solar Energieversorgungstechnik. Currently, we have
    approximately 10,000 solar modules installed worldwide at test
    sites designed to collect data for field performance validation.
    Using data logging equipment, we also monitor approximately
    172,000 solar modules, representing approximately 10MW of
    installed photovoltaic systems, in use by the end-users that
    have purchased systems using our solar modules. The modules in
    these monitored systems represent approximately 10% of all solar
    modules shipped by us from 2002 through 2006.


 


    We maintain all certifications required to sell solar modules in
    the markets we serve or expect to serve, including UL 1703, IEC
    61646, TÜV Safety Class II and CE.


 



    Solar
    Module Warranty


 


    We provide a limited warranty to the owner of our solar modules
    for five years following delivery for defects in materials and
    workmanship under normal use and service conditions. We also
    warrant to the owner of our solar modules that solar modules
    installed in accordance with
    agreed-upon
    specifications will produce at least 90% of their power output
    rating during the first 10 years following their
    installation and at least 80% of their power output rating
    during the following 15 years. In resolving claims under
    both the defects and power output warranties, we have the option
    of either repairing or replacing the covered solar module or,
    under the power output warranty,



    
    4



Table of Contents




    providing additional solar modules to remedy the power
    shortfall. Our warranties may be transferred from the original
    purchaser of our solar modules to a subsequent purchaser. As of
    December 30, 2006, our accrued warranty expense was
    $2.8 million.


 



    Recycling
    Program


 


    We believe we are the first company in the photovoltaic industry
    to implement a reclamation and recycling program for our solar
    modules that will provide full product life cycle stewardship.
    Under the Long Term Supply Contracts and other customer
    contracts that we enter into with project developer and system
    integrator customers, we agree to enter into a solar module
    reclamation and recycling agreement with each end-user and our
    customers agree to transfer the solar module reclamation and
    recycling agreement to the end-user and provide us with contact
    information for each end-user. If our customers resell our solar
    modules, we enter into the solar module reclamation and
    recycling agreement directly with the end-user.


 


    End-users can return their solar modules to us for reclamation
    and recycling at no cost at any time. We pre-fund the estimated
    recycling cost at the time of sale, assuming for this purpose a
    service life of approximately 20 years for our solar
    modules. In addition to achieving substantial environmental
    benefits, our solar module recycling program may provide us the
    opportunity to recover certain raw materials and components for
    reuse in our manufacturing process.


 



    Customers


 


    During 2006, we entered into Long Term Supply Contracts with our
    six principal customers for the manufacture and sale of solar
    modules. These customers are Blitzstrom GmbH, Conergy AG,
    Gehrlicher Umweltschonende Energiesysteme GmbH, Juwi Solar GmbH,
    Phönix Sonnenstrom AG and Reinecke + Pohl Sun
    Energy AG. These customers are project developers and system
    integrators and are headquartered in Germany. The contracts
    initially allowed for approximately €1.2 billion
    ($1.6 billion at an assumed exchanged rate of
    $1.30/€1.00
    in effect as of December 30, 2006) in sales from 2006 to
    2011 for the manufacture and sale of a total of 795 MW of solar
    modules. In December 2006, we exercised our option under each of
    our Long Term Supply Contracts to increase the sales volumes and
    extend each contract through 2012. We also amended the contracts
    with four of our customers in January 2007 to further increase
    the sales volumes over the duration of each contract. As a
    result of the option exercises and amendments as of
    January 9, 2007, our long term supply contracts allowed for
    approximately €2.3 billion ($3.0 billion at an
    assumed exchange rate of
    $1.30/€1.00)
    in sales from 2006 to 2012 for the manufacture and sale of a
    total of 1,554MW of solar modules, of which 50MW was sold in
    2006. The information in this paragraph is intended to summarize
    the financial terms of the Long Term Supply Contracts and is not
    intended to provide guidance about our future operating results,
    including revenues or profitability.


 


    In 2005 and 2006, our principal customers were Blitzstrom GmbH,
    Conergy AG, Gehrlicher Umweltschonende Energiesystem GmbH, Juwi
    Solar GmbH, Phönix Sonnenstrom AG and Reinecke + Pohl Sun
    Energy AG. During 2006, five of our customers each accounted for
    between 16% to 19% of our net sales; all other customers
    individually accounted for less than 10% of our net sales. The
    loss of any of our major customers could have an adverse effect
    on our business. As we expand our manufacturing capacity, we
    anticipate developing additional customer relationships in
    Germany and in other markets and regions, which will reduce our
    customer and geographic concentration and dependence.


 


    Our customers sell turnkey solar systems to end-users that
    include owners of land designated as former agricultural land,
    waste land or conversion land individual owners of agricultural
    buildings, owners of commercial warehouses, offices and
    industrial buildings, public agencies and municipal government
    authorities that own buildings suitable for solar system
    deployment and financial investors that desire to own large
    scale solar projects.


 



    Manufacturing


 



    Manufacturing
    Process


 


    We have integrated our manufacturing processes into a single
    production line with the following three stages: the
    “deposition” stage; the “cell definition”
    stage; and the “assembly and test” stage. Except for
    operators



    
    5



Table of Contents




    performing quality control and monitoring functions, the only
    stage requiring manual processing is the final assembly and test
    stage. As a result of our automated production process, we
    employ 20 people per production line for each of our four
    shifts, or a total of 80 people per production line for
    24 hours per day, seven days per week production.


 


    The deposition process begins with the robotic loading of
    2ft × 4ft (60cm × 120cm) panels of
    low-cost tin oxide-coated soda lime glass on to the production
    line where they are cleaned and chamfered to produce the strong,
    defect free edges necessary for subsequent processing steps.
    Following cleaning, the glass panels move automatically into a
    vacuum chamber where they are heated to near the softening point
    and coated with a layer of cadmium sulfide followed by a layer
    of cadmium telluride using our proprietary vapor transport
    deposition technology. Each layer takes less than 45 seconds to
    deposit and uses approximately 1% of the semiconductor material
    used in crystalline silicon solar modules. Our ability to
    deposit the semiconductor materials quickly and uniformly is
    critical to producing low cost, high quality solar modules.
    Next, we cool the semiconductor-coated plate rapidly to increase
    its strength. The deposition stage concludes with a
    re-crystallization step that reduces defects within the crystals
    and minimizes the recombination that occurs between grain
    boundaries.


 


    In our cell definition stage, we use a series of lasers to
    transform the large single semiconductor-coated plate into a
    series of interconnected cells that deliver the desired current
    and voltage output. Our proprietary laser scribing technology is
    capable of accomplishing accurate and complex scribes at high
    speeds.


 


    Finally, in the assembly and test stage, we apply busbars, EVA
    (Ethyl Vinyl Acetate) laminate, a rear glass cover sheet and
    termination wires, seal the joint box and subject each solar
    module to a solar simulator and current leakage tests. The final
    assembly stage is the only stage in our production line that
    requires manual processing.


 


    All of our solar modules are produced at our Perrysburg, Ohio
    facility, which has received both an
    ISO 9001:2000
    quality system certification and
    ISO:14001
    environmental system certification.


 



    Manufacturing
    Capacity Expansion


 


    We are in the process of expanding our name plate manufacturing
    capacity to 175MW by the end of 2007. In August 2006, we
    completed our Ohio expansion by adding two 25MW production lines
    to our existing 25MW base plant, which increased our annual
    manufacturing capacity to 75MW. We are also building a four line
    100MW manufacturing plant in Germany. After our German plant
    reaches full capacity, which we expect to occur by the end of
    2007, we will have an annual manufacturing capacity of 175MW. On
    January 24, 2007 we entered into a land lease for a site in
    the Kulim Hi-Tech Park in the State of Kadah, Malaysia that can
    accommodate up to two 100MW plants and includes an option
    exercisable over 6 years for an adjacent land site that
    could accommodate up to another eight lines and we expect
    construction of the 100MW Malaysia plant to begin in the second
    quarter of 2007. To complete each new production line, we plan
    to use a systematic replication process designed to enable us to
    add production lines rapidly and efficiently and achieve
    operating metrics in new plants that are comparable to the
    performance of our base plant.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Our manufacturing process uses approximately twenty raw
    materials to construct a complete solar module. Of those raw
    materials, the following nine are critical to our manufacturing
    process: TCO coated front glass, cadmium sulfide, cadmium
    telluride, photo resist, EVA laminate, tempered back glass, cord
    plate/cord plate cap, lead wire (UL and TÜV) and solar
    connectors. Before we use these materials in our manufacturing
    process, a supplier must undergo a qualification process that
    can last from one to twelve months, depending on the type of raw
    material. Although we continually evaluate new suppliers and
    currently are qualifying several new suppliers, most of our
    critical materials are supplied by only one or two sources.


 


    The most critical raw material in our production process is
    cadmium telluride. Presently, we purchase all of our cadmium
    telluride in compounded form from one manufacturer. We have a
    three year written contract with one of our suppliers, that
    provides for quarterly price adjustments based on the cost of
    tellurium. As other suppliers become qualified, we will purchase
    cadmium telluride from our other supplier under quarterly
    purchase orders. We acquire the remainder of our raw materials
    under quarterly purchase orders, at prices based on annual
    volumes.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    Because the sales prices in our Long Term Supply Contracts with
    our customers do not adjust for raw material price increases and
    these contracts are for a longer term than our raw material
    supply contracts, we may be unable to pass on any increases in
    the cost of our raw materials to these customers.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering


 


    We continue to devote a substantial amount of resources to
    research and development with the objective of lowering the per
    watt cost of solar electricity generated by photovoltaic systems
    using our solar modules to a level that competes on a
    non-subsidized basis with the price of retail electricity in key
    markets in the United States, Europe and Asia by 2010. To reduce
    the per watt cost of electricity generated by photovoltaic
    systems using our solar modules, we focus our research and
    development on the following areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increase the conversion efficiency of our solar
    modules.  We believe the most promising ways of
    increasing the conversion efficiency of our solar modules are
    maximizing the number of photons that reach the absorption layer
    of the semiconductor material so that they can be converted into
    electrons, maximizing the number of electrons that reach the
    surface of the cadmium telluride and minimizing the electrical
    losses between the semiconductor layer and the back metal
    conductor. We have already developed small-scale solar cells
    using our technology with conversion efficiencies as high as
    14.5%, compared to our module’s average conversion
    efficiency of approximately 9.5% achieved in full production
    during 2006.





 


    We believe that our ability to achieve higher module
    efficiencies is primarily a function of transferring technology
    that we have demonstrated in the laboratory and in pilot
    production into high-throughput module production by making
    incremental improvements to the solar module and the
    manufacturing process. Our process development activities
    encompass laboratory level research and development, device
    modeling, process optimization and the qualification of process
    improvements in high-throughput production. During 2007, we plan
    to add more equipment for further process developments at our
    Perrysburg, Ohio facility. In addition, we reserve a portion of
    the production capacity of our base plant to conduct structured
    experiments related to our process development.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    System optimization.  We also are working to
    reduce the cost and optimize the effectiveness of the other
    components in a photovoltaic system. We maintain a substantial
    effort to collect and analyze actual field performance data from
    photovoltaic systems that use our modules. We collect “real
    time” data from internal test sites comprising
    approximately 10,000 modules installed in varying climates and
    applications. We also monitor approximately 172,000 solar
    modules, representing approximately 10MW of installed
    photovoltaic systems, in use by the end-users that have
    purchased photovoltaic systems using our modules. We use the
    data collected from these sources to correlate field performance
    to various manufacturing and laboratory level metrics, identify
    opportunities for module and process improvement and improve the
    performance of systems that use our modules. In addition, we use
    this data to enhance predictive models and simulations for the
    end-users.





 


    We intend to qualify process and product improvements for full
    production on our Ohio expansion production lines and then
    integrate them into our other production lines. Our scientists
    and engineers will collaborate across all manufacturing plants
    to drive improvement. We intend to implement, validate and
    qualify such improvements at the Ohio expansion before we deploy
    them to all of our production lines. We believe that this
    systematic approach to research and development will provide
    continuous improvements and ensure uniform adoption across our
    production lines.


 


    We maintain active collaborations with the National Renewable
    Energy Laboratory (a division of the U.S. Department of
    Energy), Brookhaven National Laboratory and several
    universities. Since 2004, we have invested in excess of
    $12.7 million into our research and development expenses
    and received $2.8 million of grant funding.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We launched the marketing and sale of our solar modules in
    Germany in 2003 because Germany has attractive feed-in tariffs,
    a high forecasted growth rate for renewable energy and market
    segments that we believe are well



    
    7



Table of Contents




    served by our product. Since 2003, our focus has remained on
    grid-connected ground or roof mounted photovoltaic systems in
    Germany because, similar to other solar module manufacturers, we
    currently cannot compete with conventional sources of
    electricity on a cost basis unless end-users receive government
    subsidies. While our goal is to reduce the cost of solar
    electricity to levels that can compete with fossil fuels and
    other conventional sources of electricity, we believe that most
    of our distribution in the immediate future will be for use in
    grid-connected photovoltaic systems with some form of government
    subsidies.


 



    Government
    Subsidies


 


    Countries in Europe, Canada and Asia and several states in the
    United States have adopted a variety of government subsidies to
    allow renewable sources of electricity to compete with
    conventional sources of electricity, such as fossil fuels.
    Government subsidies and incentives generally focus on
    grid-connected systems and take several forms, including feed-in
    tariffs, net metering programs, renewable portfolio standards,
    rebates, tax incentives and low interest loans.


 


    Under a feed-in tariff subsidy, the government sets prices that
    regulated utilities are required to pay for renewable
    electricity generated by end-users. The prices are set above
    market rates and may differ based on system size or application.
    Net metering programs enable end-users to sell excess solar
    electricity to their local utility in exchange for a credit
    against their utility bills. Net metering allows end-users to
    get “full value” for the electricity generated by
    renewable sources, rather than receiving a less desirable rate.
    The policies governing net metering vary by state and utility;
    some utilities pay the end-user upfront, while others credit the
    end-user’s bill. Net metering is currently offered in
    40 states and the District of Columbia. Under a renewable
    portfolio standard, the government requires regulated utilities
    to supply a portion of their total electricity in the form of
    renewable electricity. Some programs further specify that a
    portion of the renewable energy quota must be from solar
    electricity.


 


    Tax incentive programs exist in the United States at both the
    federal and state level and can take the form of investment tax
    credits, accelerated depreciation and property tax exemptions.
    Several governments also facilitate low interest loans for
    photovoltaic systems, either through direct lending, credit
    enhancement, or other programs.


 


    Regulations and policies relating to electricity pricing and
    interconnection also encourage distributive generation with
    photovoltaic systems. Photovoltaic systems generate most of
    their electricity during the afternoon hours when the demand for
    and cost of electricity is highest. As a result, electricity
    generated by photovoltaic systems mainly competes with expensive
    peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average
    price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing
    policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require
    photovoltaic systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete
    with the price of electricity. In addition, interconnection
    policies often enable the owner of a photovoltaic system to feed
    solar electricity into the power grid without interconnection
    costs or standby fees.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Our operations include the use, handling, storage,
    transportation, generation and disposal of hazardous materials.
    We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws
    and regulations relating to the protection of the environment,
    including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the
    air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous
    materials and wastes, occupational health and safety and the
    cleanup of contaminated sites. Therefore, we could incur
    substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or
    criminal sanctions and costs arising from third party property
    damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of
    or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with
    environmental permits required at our facilities. We believe we
    are currently in substantial compliance with applicable
    environmental requirements and do not expect to incur material
    capital expenditures for environmental controls in this or the
    succeeding fiscal year. However, future developments such as
    more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new,
    more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of unknown
    environmental conditions may require expenditures that could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations
    and/or
    financial condition. See Item 1A: Risk Factors —
    “Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a
    substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash
    flows and profitability”.



    
    8



Table of Contents



 



    Competition


 


    The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly
    competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to
    distinguish themselves within their markets and compete within
    the larger electric power industry. Within the renewable energy
    industry, we believe that our main sources of competition are
    crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers, other thin film
    solar module manufacturers and companies developing solar
    thermal and concentrated photovoltaic technologies. Among
    photovoltaic module and cell manufacturers, the principal
    methods of competition are price per watt, production capacity,
    conversion efficiency and reliability. We believe that we
    compete favorably with respect to these factors.


 


    At the end of 2006, the global photovoltaic industry consisted
    of over 100 manufacturers of photovoltaic cells and solar
    modules. Within the PV industry, we face competition from
    crystalline silicon photovoltaic cell and solar module
    manufacturers, including BP Solar, Evergreen Solar, Kyocera,
    Motech, Q-Cells, Renewable Energy Corporation, Sanyo, Schott
    Solar, Sharp, SolarWorld, Sunpower and Suntech. We also face
    competition from thin film solar module manufacturers, including
    Antec, Kaneka, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Shell Solar and
    United Solar. Finally, our solar module comes in one size
    measuring 2ft × 4ft
    (60cm × 120cm). In contrast, some of our thin
    film competitors have developed solar products that can be
    tailored to a customer’s specifications.


 


    In addition, we expect to compete with future entrants to the
    photovoltaic industry that offer new technological solutions. We
    may also face competition from semiconductor manufacturers and
    semiconductor equipment manufacturers, or their customers,
    several of which have already announced their intention to start
    production of photovoltaic cells, solar modules, or turnkey
    production lines. Some of our competitors are larger and have
    greater financial resources, larger production capacities and
    greater brand name recognition than we do and may, as a result,
    be better positioned to adapt to changes in the industry or the
    economy as a whole. One of our customers, Conergy AG, commenced
    construction of a plant in Germany that will manufacture
    traditional crystalline silicone photovoltaic solar cells and
    modules.


 


    In addition to manufacturers of PV cells and solar modules, we
    face competition from companies developing solar thermal and
    concentrated PV technologies.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and
    protect our proprietary technology and to conduct our business
    without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely
    primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks and trade
    secrets, as well as employee and third party confidentiality
    agreements to safeguard our intellectual property. As of
    December 30, 2006, in the United States we held 26 patents,
    which will expire at various times between 2007 and 2023 and had
    18 patent applications pending. We also held 16 patents and had
    37 patent applications pending in foreign jurisdictions. Our
    patent applications and any future patent applications, might
    not result in a patent being issued with the scope of the claims
    we seek, or at all and any patents we may receive may be
    challenged, invalidated, or declared unenforceable. We
    continually assess appropriate occasions for seeking patent
    protection for those aspects of our technology, designs and
    methodologies and processes that we believe provide significant
    competitive advantages. A majority of our patents relate to our
    vapor transport deposition process in which semiconductor
    material is deposited on glass substrates and our laser scribing
    process of transforming a large semiconductor-coated plate into
    a series of interconnected cells.


 


    As of December 30, 2006, we held 2 trademarks, “First
    Solar” and “First Solar and Design”, in the
    United States. We have also registered our “First
    Solar and Design” mark in China, Japan and the European
    Union and we are seeking registration in India.


 


    With respect to, among other things, proprietary know-how that
    is not patentable and processes for which patents are difficult
    to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and
    confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We
    believe that many elements of our photovoltaic manufacturing
    process involve proprietary know-how, technology, or data that
    are not covered by patents or patent applications, including
    technical processes, equipment designs, algorithms and
    procedures. We have taken security measures to protect these
    elements. All of our research and development personnel have
    entered into confidentiality and proprietary information
    agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual
    property protection issues and require our employees to assign
    to us all of the



    
    9



Table of Contents




    inventions, designs and technologies they develop during the
    course of employment with us. We also require our customers and
    business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements
    before we disclose any sensitive aspects of our solar cells,
    technology, or business plans.


 


    We have not been subject to any material intellectual property
    claims.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 30, 2006, we had 723 employees, including
    545 in manufacturing and the rest in research and development,
    sales and marketing, and general and administration positions.
    None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered
    by a collective bargaining agreement. As we expand domestically
    and internationally, however, we may encounter employees who
    desire union representation. We believe that relations with our
    employees are good.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We maintain a website at http://www.firstsolar.com. We make
    available free of charge on our website our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    proxy statement and any amendments to those reports filed or
    furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
    Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to,
    the SEC. The information contained in or connected to our
    website is not incorporated by reference into this report.


 


    The public may also read and copy any materials that we file
    with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
    Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain
    information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by
    calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports
    and other information regarding issuers, such as First Solar,
    that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet
    website is located at http://www.sec.gov.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Our executive officers and their ages and positions are as
    follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    Michael J. Ahearn
    



 




    50
    




 


    President, Chief Executive
    Officer, Chairman
    





    Bruce Sohn(1)
    



 




    45
    




 


    President, Director
    





    George A. (“Chip”) Hambro
    



 




    43
    




 


    Chief Operating Officer
    





    Jens Meyerhoff
    



 




    42
    




 


    Chief Financial Officer
    





    Kenneth M. Schultz
    



 




    44
    




 


    Vice President, Sales &
    Marketing
    





    I. Paul Kacir
    



 




    41
    




 


    Vice President, General Counsel
    








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    On March 1, 2007, First Solar announced the appointment of
    Bruce Sohn as President of First Solar.




 


    Michael J. Ahearn has served as the President, CEO and Chairman
    of First Solar since August 2000. Since 1996, he has been
    Partner and President of the equity investment firm, JWMA
    (formerly True North Partners, L.L.C.), the majority stockholder
    of First Solar. Prior to joining JWMA, Mr. Ahearn practiced
    law as a partner in the firm of Gallagher & Kennedy. He
    received both a B.A. in Finance and a J.D. from Arizona State
    University. On March 12, 2007 Mr. Ahearn no longer served
    as President of the Company, having transferred that title to
    Mr. Sohn.


 


    Bruce Sohn was elected a director of First Solar in July 2003.
    On March 1, 2007, First Solar, Inc. announced the
    appointment of Mr. Sohn as President of First Solar. He was with
    Intel Corporation for 24 years where he most recently served as
    Plant Manager. Mr. Sohn serves on the boards of the
    International Symposium on Semiconductor Manufacturing, the
    IEEE-Electron Devices Society Manufacturing Technology Committee
    and the New Mexico Museum of Natural History Foundation. He is a
    senior member of IEEE and a certified Jonah. Mr. Sohn has
    been a guest lecturer at several universities, including the
    Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Stanford. He graduated
    from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degree in
    Materials Science and Engineering.



    
    10



Table of Contents



 


    George A. (“Chip”) Hambro joined First Solar in June
    2001 as Vice President of Engineering, was named Vice President
    and General Manager in February 2003 and assumed the role of
    Chief Operating Officer in February 2005. Prior to joining First
    Solar, he held the positions of Vice President of
    Engineering & Business Development for Goodrich
    Aerospace from May 1999 to June 2001 and Vice President of
    Operations for ITT Industries from February 1997 to May 1999.
    Mr. Hambro graduated from the University of California at
    Berkeley with a B.A. in Physical Science (Applied Physics).


 


    Jens Meyerhoff joined First Solar in May 2006 as Chief Financial
    Officer. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Meyerhoff was
    the Chief Financial Officer of Virage Logic Corporation, a
    provider of embedded memory intellectual property for the design
    of integrated circuits, from January 2006 to May 2006.
    Mr. Meyerhoff was employed by FormFactor, Inc., a
    manufacturer of advanced wafer probe cards, as Chief Operating
    Officer from April 2004 to July 2005, Senior Vice President of
    Operations from January 2003 to April 2004 and Chief Financial
    Officer from August 2000 to March 2005. Prior to joining
    FormFactor, Inc., Mr. Meyerhoff was the Chief Financial
    Officer and Senior Vice President of Materials at Siliconix
    Incorporated, a manufacturer of power and analog semiconductor
    devices, from March 1998 to August 2000. Mr. Meyerhoff
    holds a German Wirtschaftsinformatiker degree, which is the
    equivalent of a Finance and Information Technology degree, from
    Daimler Benz’s Executive Training Program.


 


    Kenneth M. Schultz joined First Solar in November 2002 as Vice
    President of Sales & Marketing. Prior to joining First
    Solar, he was a Vice President at Intersil Corporation, an
    analog semiconductor company, where he was responsible for
    commercializing various communications technologies, from
    October 2000 to June 2002. Mr. Schultz was Vice President
    and General Manager at SiCOM, Inc. prior to the acquisition of
    SiCOM by Intersil Corporation in 2000. He holds a B.S. in
    electrical engineering from the University of Pittsburgh and
    received his M.B.A. degree from Robert Morris University.


 


    I. Paul Kacir joined First Solar in October 2006 as Vice
    President, General Counsel. Prior to joining First Solar,
    Mr. Kacir was a partner with the law firm of Gowling
    Lafleur Hender LLP in 2006. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Kacir
    was general counsel for Creo Inc., a manufacturer of digital
    pre-press equipment. Before joining Creo, Mr. Kacir
    practiced with Lang Michener Lawrence and Shaw. Mr. Kacir
    holds a B.A. in economics from the University of Western
    Ontario, an L.L.B. (equivalent to a J.D. in the U.S.) from the
    University of New Brunswick and his M.B.A. from the University
    of British Columbia.


 



    Item 1A:  Risk
    Factors


 


    An investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You
    should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as
    the other information in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    in evaluating First Solar and our business. If any of the
    following risks actually occur, our business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be materially and
    adversely affected. Accordingly, the trading price of our common
    stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your
    investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties
    described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks
    that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe
    to be immaterial may also impair our business operations.


 



    Our
    limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to
    judge our future prospects and results of
    operations.


 


    We have a limited operating history. Although we began
    developing our predecessor technology in 1987, we did not
    complete the qualification of our pilot manufacturing line until
    January 2002 and our base plant until November 2004. From our
    launch of commercial operations in January 2002 through the end
    of 2006, we sold approximately 84MW of solar modules. Relative
    to the entire solar energy industry, which had a worldwide
    installed capacity of 5GW, or 5,000MW, at the end of 2005, we
    have sold only a small percentage of the installed solar
    modules. As such, our historical operating results may not
    provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business,
    financial performance and prospects. While our net sales grew
    from $13.5 million in 2004 to $135.0 million in 2006,
    we may be unable to achieve similar growth, or to grow at all,
    in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our
    results of operations for any prior period as an indication of
    our future performance.



    
    11



Table of Contents



 



    We
    have incurred losses since our inception and may be unable to
    generate sufficient net sales in the future to sustain
    profitability.


 


    We incurred a net loss of $16.8 million in 2004 and
    $6.5 million in 2005. Although we had net income of
    $4.0 million in 2006, we still had an accumulated deficit
    of $145.4 million at December 30, 2006 and we may
    incur losses in the future. In addition, we expect our operating
    expenses to increase as we expand our operations. Our ability to
    sustain profitability depends on a number of factors, including
    the growth rate of the solar energy industry, the continued
    market acceptance of solar modules, the competitiveness of our
    solar modules and services and our ability to increase
    production volumes. If we are unable to generate sufficient net
    sales to sustain profitability and positive cash flows, we could
    be unable to satisfy our commitments and may have to discontinue
    operations.


 



    Thin
    film technology has a short history and our thin film technology
    and solar modules may perform below expectations.


 


    Researchers began developing thin film semiconductor technology
    over 20 years ago, but were unable to integrate the
    technology into a production line until recently. In addition,
    the oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification
    of our pilot line have only been in use since 2001. As a result,
    our thin film technology and solar modules do not have a
    sufficient operating history to confirm how our solar modules
    will perform over their estimated 25 year useful life. If
    our thin film technology and solar modules perform below
    expectations, we could lose customers and face substantial
    warranty expense.


 



    Our
    failure to further refine our technology and develop and
    introduce improved photovoltaic products could render our solar
    modules uncompetitive or obsolete and reduce our net sales and
    market share.


 


    We will need to invest significant financial resources in
    research and development to keep pace with technological
    advances in the solar energy industry. However, research and
    development activities are inherently uncertain and we could
    encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research
    results. Our significant expenditures on research and
    development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other
    companies are developing a variety of competing photovoltaic
    technologies, including copper indium gallium diselenide and
    amorphous silicon, that could produce solar modules that prove
    more cost-effective or have better performance than our solar
    modules. As a result, our solar modules may be rendered obsolete
    by the technological advances of others, which could reduce our
    net sales and market share.


 



    If
    photovoltaic technology is not suitable for widespread adoption,
    or if sufficient demand for solar modules does not develop or
    takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our net sales may
    flatten or decline and we may be unable to sustain
    profitability.


 


    The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of
    development and the extent to which solar modules will be widely
    adopted is uncertain. If photovoltaic technology proves
    unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for solar
    modules fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow
    our business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain
    profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules in our
    targeted markets, including Germany, may not develop or may
    develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may
    affect the viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic
    technology and demand for solar modules, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    cost-effectiveness of solar modules compared to conventional and
    other non-solar renewable energy sources and products;



 


     
        • 

    
    performance and reliability of solar modules and thin film
    technology compared to conventional and other non-solar
    renewable energy sources and products;



 


     
        • 

    
    availability and substance of government subsidies and
    incentives to support the development of the solar energy
    industry;



 


     
        • 

    
    success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such
    as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated
    photovoltaic and biomass;



 


     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the
    viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy
    sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and
    other fossil fuels;






    
    12



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar
    modules, which tend to decrease when the economy slows and
    interest rates increase; and



 


     
        • 

    
    deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader
    energy industry.





 



    Our
    future success depends on our ability to build new manufacturing
    plants and add production lines in a cost-effective manner, both
    of which are subject to risks and uncertainties.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to significantly
    increase both our manufacturing capacity and production
    throughput in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we
    cannot do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease
    our cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy
    our contractual obligations, or sustain profitability. Our
    ability to expand production capacity is subject to significant
    risks and uncertainties, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the need to raise significant additional funds to build
    additional manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to
    obtain on reasonable terms or at all;



 


     
        • 

    
    delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors,
    many of which may be beyond our control, such as our inability
    to secure successful contracts with equipment vendors;



 


     
        • 

    
    our custom-built equipment may take longer and cost more to
    engineer than expected and may never operate as designed;



 


     
        • 

    
    delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government
    authorities;



 


     
        • 

    
    diversion of significant management attention and other
    resources; and



 


     
        • 

    
    failure to execute our expansion plans effectively.





 



    If our
    future production lines do not achieve operating metrics similar
    to our base plant, our solar modules could perform below
    expectations and cause us to lose customers.


 


    Currently, our 25MW base plant is our only production line that
    has a meaningful history of operating at full capacity. We added
    two 25MW production lines in our Ohio expansion in August 2006;
    however, they do not have a sufficient operating history for us
    to determine whether we were successful in replicating the base
    plant. The production lines in our Ohio expansion and future
    production lines could produce solar modules that have lower
    efficiencies, higher failure rates and higher rates of
    degradation than solar modules from our base plant and we could
    be unable to determine the cause of the lower operating metrics
    or develop and implement solutions to achieve similar operating
    metrics as our base plant. The Ohio expansion represents a
    “standard building block” that we intend to replicate
    in future production facilities and expansions of our existing
    production facilities, including the German plant and the
    Malaysian plant. Our replication risk in connection with
    building the German plant, the Malaysian plant and other future
    manufacturing plants could be higher than our replication risk
    in the Ohio expansion because we expect the new lines to be
    located internationally, which could entail other factors that
    will lower the operating metrics. If we are unable to
    systematically replicate our production lines and achieve and
    sustain similar operating metrics in our Ohio expansion and
    future production lines as our base plant, our manufacturing
    capacity could be substantially constrained, our manufacturing
    costs per watt could increase and we could lose customers,
    causing lower net sales and net income than we anticipate.


 



    Some
    of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced.
    If our manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment
    suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could
    experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our
    contractual requirements.


 


    Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our
    production line based on designs or specifications that we
    provide the equipment manufacturer, who then undertakes a
    specialized production process to manufacture the custom
    equipment. As a result, the equipment is not readily available
    from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or
    replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. If any
    piece of equipment fails, production along the entire production
    line could be interrupted and we could be unable to produce
    enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements. In
    addition, the failure of our equipment suppliers to supply



    
    13



Table of Contents




    equipment in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms
    could delay our expansion plans and otherwise disrupt our
    production schedule or increase our manufacturing costs.


 



    We may
    be unable to manage the expansion of our operations
    effectively.


 


    We expect to expand our business significantly in order to meet
    our contractual obligations, satisfy demand for our solar
    modules and increase market share. In August 2006, we expanded
    our manufacturing capacity from the existing 25MW at our base
    plant to an aggregate of 75MW with the completion of our Ohio
    expansion. We expect to continue expanding our manufacturing
    capacity to an aggregate of 175MW by the second half of 2007,
    upon the anticipated qualification of our German plant and
    275 MW by the second half of 2008, upon the anticipated
    completion of our Malaysian plant. To manage the expansion of
    our operations, we will be required to improve our operational
    and financial systems, procedures and controls; increase
    manufacturing capacity and throughput; and expand, train and
    manage our growing employee base. Our management will also be
    required to maintain and expand our relationships with
    customers, suppliers and other third parties and attract new
    customers and suppliers. In addition, our current and planned
    operations, personnel, systems and internal procedures and
    controls might be inadequate to support our future growth. If we
    cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take
    advantage of market opportunities, execute our business
    strategies, or respond to competitive pressures.


 



    We
    depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for key raw
    materials and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing
    delays and impair our ability to deliver solar modules to
    customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price
    that is profitable to us.


 


    Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our
    quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could
    interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules
    or increase our manufacturing cost. Most of our key raw
    materials are either sole-sourced or sourced by a limited number
    of third-party suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our
    suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair
    our operations. In addition, many of our suppliers are small
    companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for
    raw materials as we implement our planned rapid expansion. We
    may be unable to identify new suppliers or qualify their
    products for use on our production lines in a timely manner and
    on commercially reasonable terms. Raw materials from new
    suppliers may also be less suited for our technology and yield
    solar modules with lower conversion efficiencies than solar
    modules manufactured with the raw materials from our current
    suppliers.


 



    A
    disruption in our supply chain for cadmium telluride, the key
    component of our semiconductor layer, could interrupt or impair
    our ability to manufacture solar modules.


 


    The key raw material we use in our production process in the
    active semiconductor layer is a cadmium telluride compound, with
    the tellurium component of cadmium telluride compound being the
    most critical. Currently, we purchase all of our cadmium
    telluride in manufactured form from one manufacturer. If any of
    our current or future suppliers is unable to perform under its
    contracts or purchase orders, our operations could be
    interrupted or impaired. In addition, because each supplier must
    undergo a lengthy qualification process, we may be unable to
    replace a lost supplier in a timely manner and on commercially
    reasonable terms. Our supply of cadmium telluride could also be
    limited if our suppliers are unable to acquire an adequate
    supply of tellurium in a timely manner or at commercially
    reasonable prices. If our suppliers cannot obtain sufficient
    tellurium, they could substantially increase their prices or be
    unable to perform under their contracts. We may be unable to
    pass increases in the cost of our raw materials through to our
    customers because our customer contracts do not adjust for raw
    material price increases and are generally for a longer term
    than our raw material supply contracts.


 



    We
    currently depend on six customers for substantially all of our
    net sales. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders
    from, any of these customers could significantly reduce our net
    sales and harm our operating results.


 


    We currently sell substantially all of our solar modules to six
    customers headquartered in Germany. In 2005, sales to our
    largest customer accounted for approximately 45% of our total
    net sales. During 2006, our largest customers accounted for
    between 16% and 19% of our net sales. The loss of any of our
    customers or their default in payment could significantly reduce
    our net sales and adversely impact our operating results. In
    addition, our Long



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Term Supply Contracts extend through 2012 and we expect them to
    allocate a significant majority of our production capacity to a
    limited number of customers. As a result, we do not expect to
    have a significant amount of excess production capacity to
    identify and then build relationships with new customers that
    could replace any lost customers. We anticipate that our
    dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for
    the foreseeable future because we have pre-sold approximately
    two-thirds of the planned capacity of our base plant, Ohio
    expansion, German plant and Malaysian plant through 2012. As a
    result, we will have to rely on future expansions to attract and
    service new customers. In addition, our customer relationships
    have been developed over a relatively short period of time and
    we cannot guarantee that we will have good relations with our
    customers in the future. Several of our competitors have more
    established relationships with our customers and may gain a
    larger share of our customers’ business over time.


 



    If we
    are unable to further increase the number of sellable watts per
    solar module and reduce our manufacturing cost per watt, we will
    be in default under our Long Term Supply Contracts and our gross
    profit and gross margin could decrease.


 


    Our Long Term Supply Contracts require us to deliver solar
    modules that, in total, meet or exceed a specified minimum
    average number of watts per module for the year. Beginning in
    2007, we are required to increase the minimum average number of
    watts per module by approximately 5% annually between 2007 and
    2009, and then by an additional 3% for modules delivered in
    2012. If we are unable to meet the minimum average annual number
    of watts per module in a given year, we will be in default under
    the agreements, entitling our customers to certain remedies,
    potentially including the right to terminate the contracts. In
    addition, our Long Term Supply Contracts specify a sales price
    per watt that declines approximately 6.5% each year through the
    expiration date of the contract in 2012. Our gross profit and
    gross margin could decline if we are unable to reduce our
    manufacturing cost per watt by at least the same rate at which
    our contractual prices decrease.


 



    The
    reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic
    incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could
    reduce demand for our solar modules, lead to a reduction in our
    net sales and adversely impact our operating
    results.


 


    The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government
    subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity
    may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy
    relative to conventional and non-solar renewable sources of
    energy and could materially and adversely affect the growth of
    the solar energy industry and our net sales. We believe that the
    near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where
    solar energy is used to supplement the electricity a consumer
    purchases from the utility network, depends significantly on the
    availability and size of government and economic incentives.
    Currently, the cost of solar electricity substantially exceeds
    the retail price of electricity in every significant market in
    the world. As a result, federal, state and local governmental
    bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain,
    France, South Korea, Japan, Canada and the United States, have
    provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax
    write-offs and other incentives to end-users, distributors,
    systems integrators and manufacturers of photovoltaic products.
    For example, Germany, which accounted for 95.0% of our net sales
    in 2006, has been a strong supporter of photovoltaic products
    and systems and political changes in Germany could result in
    significant reductions or the elimination of incentives. Many of
    these government incentives expire, phase out over time, exhaust
    the allocated funding, or require renewal by the applicable
    authority. For example, German subsidies decline at a rate of
    5.0% to 6.5% per year (based on the type and size of the
    photovoltaic system) and discussions are currently underway
    about modifying the German Renewable Energy Law (EEG). If the
    German government reduces or eliminates the subsidies under the
    EEG, demand for photovoltaic products could significantly
    decline in Germany. In addition, the Emerging Renewables Program
    in California has finite funds that may not last through the
    current program period. California subsidies declined from $2.80
    to $2.50 per Watt in March 2006 and will continue to
    decline as cumulative installations exceed stated thresholds.
    Net metering policies in California, which currently only
    require each investor owned utility to provide net metering up
    to 2.5% of its aggregate customer peak demand, could also limit
    the amount of solar power installed within California.


 


    In addition, if any of these statutes or regulations is found to
    be unconstitutional, or is reduced or discontinued for other
    reasons, sales of our solar modules in these countries could
    decline significantly, which could have a



    
    15



Table of Contents




    material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations. For example, the predecessor to the German EEG was
    challenged in Germany on constitutional grounds and in the
    European Court of Justice as impermissible state aid. Although
    the German Federal High Court of Justice dismissed these
    constitutional concerns and the European Court of Justice held
    that the purchase requirement at minimum feed-in tariffs did not
    constitute impermissible state aid, new proceedings challenging
    the Renewable Energies Act or comparable minimum price
    regulations in other countries in which we currently operate or
    intend to operate may be initiated.


 


    Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from
    fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources could also lobby
    for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to
    protect their revenue streams. The reduction or elimination of
    government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar
    energy applications, especially those in our target markets,
    could cause our net sales to decline and materially and
    adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Currency
    translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our net
    sales, cost of sales and gross margins and could result in
    exchange losses.


 


    Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we
    conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of
    most countries in which we operate. As a result, we are subject
    to currency translation risk. For example, 99.6% and 95.0% of
    our net sales were outside the United States and denominated in
    euros for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
    December 30, 2006, respectively and we expect a large
    percentage of our net sales to be outside the United States and
    denominated in foreign currencies in the future. Changes in
    exchange rates between foreign currencies and the
    U.S. dollar could affect our net sales and cost of sales
    and could result in exchange losses. In addition, we incur
    currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating
    subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales
    transaction using a different currency from our reporting
    currency. For example, our Long Term Supply Contracts specify
    fixed pricing in euros through 2012 and do not adjust for
    changes in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. We cannot
    accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate
    fluctuations on our results of operations. As of
    December 30, 2006, we did not engage in any exchange rate
    hedging activities and, as a result, any volatility in currency
    exchange rates may have an immediate adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


     We could also expand our business into emerging markets, many
    of which have an uncertain regulatory environment relating to
    currency policy. Conducting business in such emerging markets
    could cause our exposure to changes in exchange rates to
    increase.


 



    An
    increase in interest rates could make it difficult for end-users
    to finance the cost of a photovoltaic system and could reduce
    the demand for our solar modules.


 


    Many of our end-users depend on debt financing to fund the
    initial capital expenditure required to purchase and install a
    photovoltaic system. As a result, an increase in interest rates
    could make it difficult for our end-users to secure the
    financing necessary to purchase and install a photovoltaic
    system on favorable terms, or at all and thus lower demand for
    our solar modules and reduce our net sales. In addition, we
    believe that a significant percentage of our end-users install
    photovoltaic systems as an investment, funding the initial
    capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An
    increase in interest rates could lower an investor’s return
    on investment in a photovoltaic system or make alternative
    investments more attractive relative to photovoltaic systems
    and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek
    alternative investments.


 



    We
    face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline
    silicon solar modules, thin film solar modules and solar thermal
    and concentrated photovoltaic systems.


 


    The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly
    competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to
    distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the
    larger electric power industry. We believe that our main sources
    of competition are crystalline silicon solar module
    manufacturers, other thin film solar module manufacturers and
    companies developing solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic
    technologies.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 


    At the end of 2006, the global photovoltaic industry consisted
    of over 100 manufacturers of photovoltaic cells and solar
    modules. Within the photovoltaic industry, we face competition
    from crystalline silicon photovoltaic cell and solar module
    manufacturers, including BP Solar, Evergreen Solar, Kyocera,
    Motech, Q-Cells, Renewable Energy Corporation, Sanyo, Schott
    Solar, Sharp, SolarWorld, Sunpower and Suntech. We also face
    competition from thin film solar module manufacturers, including
    Antec, Kaneka, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Shell Solar, United
    Solar and several crystalline silicon manufacturers who are
    developing thin film technologies. We may also face competition
    from semiconductor manufacturers and semiconductor equipment
    manufacturers, or their customers, several of which have already
    announced their intention to start production of photovoltaic
    cells, solar modules, or turnkey production lines. One of our
    customers, Conergy AG, commenced construction of a plant in
    Germany that will manufacture traditional crystalline silicone
    photovoltaic solar cells and modules. In addition to
    manufacturers of photovoltaic cells and solar modules, we face
    competition from companies developing solar thermal and
    concentrated photovoltaic technologies.


 


    Many of our existing and potential competitors have
    substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and
    other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size
    in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage because
    they can realize economies of scale and purchase certain raw
    materials at lower prices. Many of our competitors also have
    greater brand name recognition, more established distribution
    networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our
    competitors have well-established relationships with our current
    and potential distributors and have extensive knowledge of our
    target markets. As a result of their greater size, some of our
    competitors may be able to devote more resources to the
    research, development, promotion and sale of their products or
    respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes
    in market conditions than we can. In addition, a significant
    increase in the supply of silicon feedstock or a significant
    reduction in the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar
    modules could lead to pricing pressures for solar modules. Our
    failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete
    successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and
    adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Our
    substantial international operations subject us to a number of
    risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and
    tax conditions in foreign countries.


 


    We have significant marketing and distribution operations
    outside the United States and expect to continue to have
    significant manufacturing operations outside the United States
    in the near future. In 2006, 95.0% of our net sales were
    generated from customers headquartered in Germany. In the
    future, we expect to have operations in other European
    countries, Malaysia and other Asian countries and, as a result,
    we will be subject to the legal, political, social and
    regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many
    jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations,
    include, but are not limited to, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems;



 


     
        • 

    
    foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or
    otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs, or adopt other
    restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency
    exchange controls;



 


     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may
    adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars to the
    extent the price of our solar modules, cost of raw materials and
    labor and equipment is denominated in a foreign currency;



 


     
        • 

    
    inability to obtain, maintain, or enforce intellectual property
    rights;



 


     
        • 

    
    risk of nationalization of private enterprises;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in general economic and political conditions in the
    countries in which we operate;



 


     
        • 

    
    unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory
    requirements, including those with respect to environmental
    protection, export duties and quotas;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and
    other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices
    of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some
    countries; and






    
    17



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the
    different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas
    markets in which we offer and sell our solar modules.





 


    Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid
    changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall
    success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to
    succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and
    political conditions. We may not be able to develop and
    implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each
    location where we do business. In addition, each of the
    foregoing risks is likely to take on increased significance as
    we implement our plans to expand our foreign manufacturing
    operations.


 



    Problems
    with product quality or performance may cause us to incur
    warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us
    from maintaining or increasing our market share.


 


    Our solar modules are sold with a five year materials and
    workmanship warranty for technical defects and a ten year and
    twenty-five year warranty against declines of more than 10% and
    20% of their initial rated power, respectively. As a result, we
    bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have
    sold our solar modules and recognized net sales. As of
    December 30, 2006, our accrued warranty expense amounted to
    $2.8 million.


 


    Because of the limited operating history of our solar modules,
    we have been required to make assumptions regarding the
    durability and reliability of our solar modules. Our assumptions
    could prove to be materially different from the actual
    performance of our solar modules, causing us to incur
    substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules
    in the future. For example, our
    glass-on-glass
    modules could break, delaminate, or experience power degradation
    in excess of expectations. In addition, once our modules are
    installed and connected, but before they are connected to a
    power grid or there is a load otherwise put on the modules, the
    modules are in an open circuit condition. We are continuing to
    collect data on the long term effects on reliability and service
    life that results from extended periods of the modules being in
    an open circuit condition, particularly in high ambient
    temperature conditions. Although the data available to us to
    date does not suggest significant deterioration in long term
    performance of modules that are left in prolonged open circuit
    condition, it may become apparent with future experience that
    long term performance and service life is affected by the
    modules being kept in an open circuit condition for prolonged
    periods of time. Any widespread product failures may damage our
    market reputation and cause our sales to decline and require us
    to repair or replace the defective modules, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financials results.


 



    If our
    estimates regarding the future cost of reclaiming and recycling
    our solar modules are incorrect, we could be required to accrue
    additional expenses from the time we realize our estimates are
    incorrect and we could also face a significant unplanned cash
    burden from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or
    our end-users return their solar modules.


 


    We pre-fund the estimated future obligation for reclaiming and
    recycling our solar modules based on the present value of the
    expected future cost of the reclaiming and recycling process.
    This cost includes the cost of packaging the solar module for
    transport, the cost of freight from the solar module’s
    installation site to a recycling center and the material, labor
    and capital costs of the recycling process; the related expense
    that we recognize in our financial statements also includes an
    estimated third-party profit margin and risk rate for such
    services. Currently, we base our estimates on our experience
    reclaiming and recycling solar modules that do not pass our
    quality control tests and modules returned under our warranty
    and on our expectations about future developments in recycling
    technologies and processes and about economic conditions at the
    time the solar modules will be reclaimed and recycled. If our
    estimates prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue
    additional expenses from the time we realize our estimates are
    incorrect and also face a significant unplanned cash burden at
    the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or end-users
    return their solar modules, which could harm our operating
    results. In addition, our end-users can return their solar
    modules at any time. As a result, we could be required to
    reclaim and recycle our solar modules earlier than we expect and
    before recycling technologies and processes improve.



    
    18



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    future success depends on our ability to retain our key
    employees and to successfully integrate them into our management
    team.


 


    We are dependent on the services of Michael J. Ahearn, our Chief
    Executive Officer, Bruce Sohn, our President, George A.
    (“Chip”) Hambro, our Chief Operating Officer, Jens
    Meyerhoff, our Chief Financial Officer, Ken Schultz, our
    VP of Sales and Marketing and other members of our senior
    management team. The loss of Messrs. Ahearn, Sohn, Hambro,
    Meyerhoff, Schultz or any other member of our senior management
    team could have a material adverse effect on us. There is a risk
    that we will not be able to retain or replace these key
    employees. Several of our current key employees, including
    Messrs. Ahearn, Hambro, Sohn, Schultz and Meyerhoff, are
    subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain
    post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these
    arrangements permit the employees to terminate their employment
    with us upon little or no notice. We recently added several
    members to our senior management team, including Bruce Sohn, our
    new President. Integrating them into our management team could
    prove disruptive to our daily operations, require a
    disproportionate amount of resources and management attention
    and prove unsuccessful.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract, train and retain technical personnel, our
    business may be materially and adversely affected.


 


    Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our
    ability to attract, train and retain technical personnel.
    Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those
    with expertise in the photovoltaic industry, thin film
    technology and cadmium telluride are vital to our success. There
    is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel and
    we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain
    our technical personnel. In addition, a significant percentage
    of our current technical personnel have stock options that vest
    in 2008 and it may be more difficult to retain these individuals
    after their options vest. If we are unable to attract and retain
    qualified employees, our business may be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    Our
    failure to protect our intellectual property rights may
    undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our
    intellectual property rights or defend against third-party
    allegations of infringement may be costly.


 


    Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other
    technology, especially our proprietary vapor transport
    deposition process and laser scribing process, is critical to
    our business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our
    existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss
    of valuable technologies. We rely primarily on patents,
    trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other contractual
    restrictions to protect our intellectual property. We have
    received patents in the United States and select foreign
    jurisdictions and we have pending applications in such
    jurisdictions as well. Our existing patents and future patents
    could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or rendered
    unenforceable. We have pending patent applications in the United
    States and in foreign jurisdictions. Our pending patent
    applications may not result in issued patents, or if patents are
    issued to us, such patents may not be sufficient to provide
    meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive
    technologies.


 


    We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing
    expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade
    secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While
    we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    employees and third parties to protect our intellectual
    property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in
    duration and could be breached and may not provide meaningful
    protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing
    expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event
    of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and
    manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain
    knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development
    or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality
    agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology,
    trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods
    and compounds could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright
    and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in
    some foreign countries. In some countries we have not applied
    for patent, trademark, or copyright protection.


 


    Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary
    technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of
    proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also,
    litigation may be necessary to



    
    19



Table of Contents




    enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade
    secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary
    rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such
    potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may
    be costly and may divert management attention and other
    resources away from our business. An adverse determination in
    any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights
    and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In
    addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs
    and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to
    the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties.


 



    We may
    be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third
    parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to
    pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from the
    manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our
    technology.


 


    Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop
    our technology and know-how without infringing or
    misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third
    parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to
    photovoltaic technology patents involve complex scientific,
    legal and factual considerations and analysis and, therefore,
    may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation
    involving claims of patent infringement or violation of
    intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and
    prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition
    proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can
    be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert
    the efforts and resources of our technical and management
    personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or
    proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to
    significant liability to third parties, require us to seek
    licenses from third parties (which may not be available on
    reasonable terms, or at all) or pay ongoing royalties, require
    us to redesign our solar modules, or subject us to injunctions
    prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the
    use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result
    in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting
    their purchase or use of our solar modules until resolution of
    the litigation.


 



    Existing
    regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and
    policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers
    to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products, which may
    significantly reduce demand for our solar modules.


 


    The market for electricity generation products is heavily
    influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government
    regulations and policies concerning the electric utility
    industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities.
    These regulations and policies often relate to electricity
    pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned
    electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of
    other countries, these regulations and policies have been
    modified in the past and may be modified again in the future.
    These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of
    photovoltaic products and investment in the research and
    development of photovoltaic technology. For example, without a
    mandated regulatory exception for photovoltaic systems, utility
    customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for
    putting distributed power generation on the electric utility
    grid. These fees could increase the cost to our end-users of
    using photovoltaic systems and make them less desirable, thereby
    harming our business, prospects, results of operations and
    financial condition. In addition, electricity generated by
    photovoltaic systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour
    electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of
    electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of
    utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require photovoltaic
    systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the
    price of electricity.


 


    We anticipate that our solar modules and their installation will
    be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with
    national and local ordinances relating to building codes,
    safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and
    metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the
    requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply
    with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or
    utility policies pertaining to our solar modules may result in
    significant additional expenses to us, our resellers and their
    customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction
    in demand for our solar modules.


 



    Environmental
    obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative
    impact on our financial condition, cash flows and
    profitability.


 


    Our operations involve the use, handling, generation,
    processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous
    materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and
    regulations at the national, state, local



    
    20



Table of Contents




    and international level. These environmental laws and
    regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants
    into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of
    hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated
    sites and occupational health and safety. We have incurred and
    will continue to incur, significant costs and capital
    expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In
    addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental
    laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our
    operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial
    fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property
    damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs, or other costs.
    While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with
    applicable environmental requirements, future developments such
    as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of
    new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of
    presently unknown environmental conditions may require
    expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.


 


    In addition, certain components of our products contain cadmium
    telluride and cadmium sulfide. Elemental cadmium and certain of
    its compounds are regulated as hazardous due to the adverse
    health effects that may arise from human exposure. Although the
    risks of exposure to cadmium telluride are not believed to be as
    serious as those relating to the exposure of elemental cadmium,
    the chemical, physical and toxicological properties of cadmium
    telluride have not been thoroughly investigated and reported. We
    maintain engineering controls to minimize employee exposure to
    cadmium and require our employees who handle cadmium compounds
    to follow certain safety procedures, including the use of
    personal protective equipment such as respirators, chemical
    goggles and protective clothing. In addition, we believe the
    risk of exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds from our
    end-products is limited by the fully encapsulated nature of
    these materials in our products, as well as the implementation
    in 2005 of our end of life recycling program for our solar
    modules. While we believe that these factors and procedures are
    sufficient to protect our employees, end-users and the general
    public from cadmium exposure, we cannot assure you that human or
    environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in
    our products will not occur. Any such exposure could result in
    future third-party claims against us, as well as damage to our
    reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our products,
    which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute
    our products. The occurrence of future events such as these
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    The use of cadmium in various products is also coming under
    increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Future
    regulation in this area could impact the manufacture and sale of
    cadmium-containing solar modules and could require us to make
    unforeseen environmental expenditures or to limit our ability to
    sell and distribute our products. For example, the European
    Union Directive
    2002/96/EC
    on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “WEEE
    Directive”) requires manufacturers of certain electrical
    and electronic equipment to be financially responsible for the
    collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of specified
    products placed on the market in the European Union. In
    addition, European Union Directive
    2002/95/EC
    on the Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in
    electrical and electronic equipment (the “RoHS
    Directive”) restricts the use of certain hazardous
    substances, including cadmium, in specified products. Other
    jurisdictions are considering adopting similar legislation.
    Currently, photovoltaic solar modules in general are not subject
    to the WEEE or RoHS Directives; however, these directives allow
    for future amendments subjecting additional products to their
    requirements and the scope, applicability and the products
    included in the WEEE and RoHS directives are currently being
    considered and may change. If, in the future, our solar modules
    become subject to requirements such as these, we may be required
    to apply for an exemption. If we were unable to obtain an
    exemption, we would be required to redesign our solar modules in
    order to continue to offer them for sale within the European
    Union, which would be impractical. Failure to comply with these
    directives could result in the imposition of fines and
    penalties, the inability to sell our solar modules in the
    European Union, competitive disadvantages and loss of net sales,
    all of which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    We
    have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting
    from product liability claims, business interruptions, or
    natural disasters.


 


    We are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims
    in the event that the use of our solar modules results in
    personal injury or property damage. Our solar modules are
    electricity-producing devices, and it is possible that users
    could be injured or killed by our solar modules due to product
    malfunctions, defects, improper installation, or other causes.
    We commenced commercial shipment of our solar modules in 2002
    and, due to our limited historical



    
    21



Table of Contents




    experience, we are unable to predict whether product liability
    claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of
    any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we
    may not have adequate resources and insurance to satisfy a
    judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The
    successful assertion of product liability claims against us
    could result in potentially significant monetary damages and
    require us to make significant payments. Any business disruption
    or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and
    diversion of resources.


 



    The
    Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates control us and their
    interests may conflict with or differ from your interests as a
    stockholder.


 


    Our current majority stockholder, the Estate of John T. Walton
    and its affiliates, including JCL Holdings, LLC, beneficially
    owns a majority of our outstanding common stock. The Estate of
    John T. Walton and its affiliates have substantial influence
    over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the
    election of our directors and the approval of significant
    corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers and the
    sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our
    amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    provide that unless and until the Estate of John T. Walton, JCL
    Holdings, LLC, John T. Walton’s surviving spouse,
    descendants, any entity (including a trust) that is for the
    benefit of John T. Walton’s surviving spouse or
    descendants, or any entity (including a trust) over which any of
    John T. Walton’s surviving spouse, descendants or siblings
    has voting or dispositive power (collectively, the
    “Estate”) collectively owns less than 40% of our
    common stock then outstanding, stockholders holding 40% or more
    of our common stock then outstanding may call a special meeting
    of the stockholders, at which our stockholders could replace our
    board of directors. In addition, unless and until the Estate
    collectively owns less than 40% of our common stock then
    outstanding, stockholder action may be taken by written consent.
    The interests of the Estate could conflict with or differ from
    your interests as a holder of our common stock. For example, the
    concentration of ownership held by the Estate could delay, defer
    or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a
    merger, takeover, or other business combination which you may
    view favorably.


 



    We are
    a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASD
    rules and, as a result, qualify for exemptions from certain
    corporate governance requirements.


 


    The Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates control a
    majority of our outstanding common stock. Under the NASD rules,
    a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by
    an individual, group, or another company is a “controlled
    company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate
    governance requirements, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the requirement that a majority of the board of directors
    consist of independent directors;



 


     
        • 

    
    the requirement that we have a nominating committee that is
    composed entirely of independent directors with a formal written
    charter or board resolution addressing the committee’s
    purpose and responsibilities, or, if a nominating committee is
    not formed, the independent directors nominate any director
    nominees;



 


     
        • 

    
    the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is
    composed entirely of independent directors with a formal written
    charter or board resolution addressing the committee’s
    purpose and responsibilities; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the
    nominating and compensation committees.





 


    With the appointment of Mr. Sohn as President of the
    Company, he is no longer considered an independent director and
    accordingly we no longer have a majority of our board consisting
    of independent directors. Other than the current composition of
    the Board pending our search for additional independent
    directors, we do not presently intend to use these exemptions.
    However, we could decide to use one or more of these exceptions
    in the future. If we decide to use any of these exceptions, you
    would not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of
    companies that are subject to all of these corporate governance
    requirements.



    
    22



Table of Contents



 



    If our
    stock price fluctuates, you could lose a significant part of
    your investment.


 


    The market price of our stock may be influenced by many factors,
    some of which are beyond our control, including those described
    above and the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or
    changes in financial estimates by analysts;



 


     
        • 

    
    the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who
    follow our common stock;



 


     
        • 

    
    announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts,
    productions, acquisitions, or capital commitments;



 


     
        • 

    
    variations in quarterly operating results;



 


     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    terrorist acts;



 


     
        • 

    
    future sales of our common stock; and



 


     
        • 

    
    investor perception of us and the renewable energy industry.





 


    As a result of these factors, investors in our common stock may
    not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they
    paid for the common stock. These broad market and industry
    factors may materially reduce the market price of our common
    stock, regardless of our operating performance.


 



    Shares
    eligible for future sale may cause the market price of our
    common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is
    doing well.


 


    The market price of our common stock could decline as a result
    of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the
    market or the perception that these sales could occur. These
    sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might
    make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the
    future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.


 



    We are
    incurring and will continue to incur costs as a result of being
    a public company that we did not incur when we were a private
    company.


 


    As a newly public company, we are incurring and will continue to
    incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we
    did not incur when we were a private company. In addition, the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently
    implemented by the SEC and The Nasdaq Global Market, have
    required changes in corporate governance practices of public
    companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our
    legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities
    more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we will incur
    additional costs associated with our public company reporting
    requirements. We also expect these rules and regulations to make
    it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director
    and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept
    reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher
    costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it
    may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified
    persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive
    officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring
    developments with respect to these rules and we cannot predict
    or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the
    timing of such costs.


 



    We
    identified several significant deficiencies in our internal
    controls that were deemed to be material weaknesses. If we are
    unable to successfully address the material weaknesses in our
    internal controls, our ability to report our financial results
    on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely
    affected.


 


    In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the
    years ended December 25, 2004 and December 31, 2005,
    we identified several significant deficiencies in our internal
    controls that were deemed to be “material weaknesses”
    in our internal controls, as defined in standards established by
    The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (“PCAOB”). See Item 9A: —
    “Controls and Procedures” in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.



    
    23



Table of Contents



 


    A material weakness is defined by the PCAOB as a significant
    deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that
    results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
    misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will
    not be prevented or detected.


 


    As of December 31, 2005, we did not maintain effective
    controls over the preparation, review and presentation and
    disclosure of our consolidated financial statements due to a
    lack of personnel with experience in financial reporting and
    control procedures necessary for SEC registrants. This failure
    caused several significant deficiencies, four of which had a
    large enough impact on our operating results to individually
    constitute material weaknesses. These material weaknesses were:
    (i) we did not maintain effective controls to ensure that
    the appropriate labor and overhead expenses were included in the
    cost of our inventory and that intercompany profits in inventory
    were completely and accurately eliminated as part of the
    consolidation process; (ii) we did not maintain effective
    controls to ensure the complete and accurate capitalization of
    interest in connection with our property, plant and equipment
    additions; (iii) we did not maintain effective controls to
    properly accrue for warranty obligations; and (iv) we did
    not maintain effective controls to properly record the formation
    of First Solar US Manufacturing, LLC in 1999 and the subsequent
    liquidation of minority membership units in 2003.


 


    These control deficiencies resulted in the restatement of our
    consolidated financial statements for 2004 and audit adjustments
    to our 2005 consolidated financial statements and to the
    consolidated financial statements of each interim period in
    2005. These control deficiencies could result in more than a
    remote likelihood that a material misstatement to our annual or
    interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected.
    Accordingly, we have concluded that each of these control
    deficiencies constitutes a material weakness.


 


    We are in the process of adopting and implementing several
    measures to improve our internal controls. If the remedial
    procedures we have adopted and implemented are insufficient to
    address our material weakness and significant deficiencies, we
    may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial
    statements may contain material misstatements and our operating
    results may be adversely affected.


 


    We cannot assure you that additional significant deficiencies or
    material weaknesses in our internal control over financial
    reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to
    maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or
    difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result
    in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses,
    cause us to fail to meet our future reporting obligations, or
    cause our financial statements to contain material
    misstatements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the
    results of the periodic management evaluations and annual
    auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting that are required
    under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
    which will become applicable to us beginning with the required
    filing of our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for fiscal 2007 in the first quarter of 2008. Internal control
    deficiencies could also result in a restatement of our financial
    statements in the future or cause investors to lose confidence
    in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in
    our stock price.


 



    Failure
    to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in
    accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could
    have a material adverse effect on our business and stock
    price.


 


    As a public company, we are required to document and test our
    internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements
    of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will
    require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of
    our internal control over financial reporting and a report by
    our independent registered public accounting firm that both
    addresses management’s assessment of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting. During the course
    of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be
    able to remediate in time to meet our deadline for compliance
    with Section 404. Testing and maintaining internal controls
    can divert our management’s attention from other matters
    that are important to our business. We also expect the new
    regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance cost,
    make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified officers
    and members of our board of directors (particularly to serve on
    our audit committee) and make some activities more difficult,
    time consuming and costly. We may not be able to conclude on an
    ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over
    financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our
    independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or
    willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of
    our internal control over financial reporting. If we



    
    24



Table of Contents




    conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is
    not effective, we cannot be certain as to the timing of
    completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or
    their effect on our operations since there is presently no
    precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If
    either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal
    control over financial reporting or our independent auditors are
    unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by
    Section 404, then investors could lose confidence in our
    reported financial information, which could have a negative
    effect on the trading price of our stock. See Item 1A: Risk
    Factors — “We identified several significant
    deficiencies in our internal controls that were deemed to be
    material weaknesses. If we are unable to successfully address
    the material weaknesses in our internal controls, our ability to
    report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may
    be adversely affected.”


 



    Item 1B