: “Risk Factors — Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, including  potential mid-year FiT reductions or other program changes in Germany and certain other core markets, could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results.”Intellectual PropertyOur success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary technology and to conduct our business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as associate and third party confidentiality agreements, to safeguard our intellectual property. We regularly file patent applications to protect inventions arising from our research and development, and are currently pursuing patent applications in the U.S. and worldwide. Our patent applications and any future patent applications might not result in a patent being issued with the scope of the claims we seek, or at all, and any patents we may receive may be challenged, invalidated, or declared unenforceable. In addition, we have registered and/or have applied to register, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and a number of foreign countries for “First Solar” and “First Solar and Design.”With respect to proprietary know-how that is not patentable and processes for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on, among other things, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We believe that many elements of our PV manufacturing process, including our unique materials sourcing, involve proprietary know-how, technology, or data that are not covered by patents or patent applications, including technical processes, equipment designs, algorithms, and procedures. We have taken security measures to protect these elements. All of our research and development personnel have entered into confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual property protection issues and require our associates to assign to us all of the inventions, designs, and technologies they develop during the course of employment with us. We also require our customers and business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspects of our modules, technology, or business plans.We have not been subject to any material intellectual property claims.Environmental, Health, and Safety Matters     Our operations include the use, handling, storage, transportation, generation, and disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous wastes. We are subject to various national, state, local, and international laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, occupational health and safety, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Therefore, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines, and civil or criminal sanctions and costs arising from third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations or non-compliance with environmental permits required for our operations. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety requirements and do not expect to incur material expenditures for environmental and occupational health and safety controls in the foreseeable future. However, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. See : “Risk Factors — Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, and tax conditions in foreign countries.” and "Risk Factors — We may be unable to execute on our Long Term Strategic Plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition." See Note 24. “Segment and Geographical Information,” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009. See also Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for other information about our operations and activities in various geographic regions.Available InformationWe maintain a website at http://www.firstsolar.com. We make available free of charge on our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The information contained in or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. We use our website as one means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under the SEC’s Regulation FD. Such disclosures will typically be included within the Investor Relations section of our website (http://investor.firstsolar.com). Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of our website in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts.The public may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports and other information regarding issuers, such as First Solar, that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet website is located at http://www.sec.gov.Executive Officers of the RegistrantOur executive officers and their ages and positions as of February 29, 2012, were as follows:11Name Age PositionMichael J. Ahearn 55 Interim Chief Executive OfficerMark R. Widmar 46 Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting OfficerJames G. Brown, Jr. 49 President, Global Business DevelopmentMary Beth Gustafsson 52 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryCarol Campbell 60 Executive Vice President, Human ResourcesMaja Wessels 52 Executive Vice President, Global Public AffairsDavid Eaglesham 50 Chief Technology OfficerMichael J. Ahearn, Chairman of the Board of Directors, was appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer in October 2011.  Mr. Ahearn served as Chief Executive Officer from August 2000 through September 2009 and as Executive Chairman from October 2009 through December 2010.  Mr. Ahearn is currently Chairman and Managing Partner of True North Venture Partners, L.P., a venture capital firm he launched in 2011 to invest primarily in early stage companies in the energy, water, agriculture and waste sectors.  Mr. Ahearn currently serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Cox Enterprises, Inc.; a member of the Board of Trustees of Thunderbird School of Global Management; a member of the Board of Trustees of The German Marshall Fund; a member of the Board of Directors of Endeavor Global, Inc.; a member of the Global Advisory Board of Beijing Climate Policy Initiative; and a member of the Advisory Board of BDT Capital Partners. Mr. Ahearn holds a B.A. in Finance and a J.D. from Arizona State University.  Mark R. Widmar joined First Solar in April 2011 as Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Widmar has served as First Solar’s Chief Accounting Officer since February 1, 2012.  Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Widmar served as Chief Financial Officer of GrafTech International Ltd., a leading global manufacturer of advanced carbon and graphite materials, from May 2006 through March 2011, as well as President, Engineered Solutions from January 2011 through March 2011.  Prior to joining GrafTech, Mr. Widmar served as Corporate Controller of NCR Inc. from 2005 to 2006, and was a Business Unit Chief Financial Officer for NCR from November 2002 to his appointment as Controller. He also served as a Division Controller at Dell, Inc. from August 2000 to November 2002 prior to joining NCR.  Mr. Widmar also held various financial and managerial positions with Lucent Technologies Inc., Allied Signal, Inc., and Bristol Myers/Squibb, Inc. Mr. Widmar holds a B.S. in Business Accounting and a Masters of Business Administration from Indiana University.  James G. Brown, Jr. was appointed President, Global Business Development in December 2011. Mr. Brown joined First Solar in 2008 as Vice President, Project Finance, and has been involved in project finance and business development during his tenure. He most recently served as the Company’s President, Utility Systems Business Group. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. Brown worked for 19 years in project and structured finance at Chase Manhattan, Société Générale, WestLB and HSBC, specializing in the power, oil and gas, petrochemical and general industrial sectors. Before that, Mr. Brown was a Captain in the U.S. Army where he was a helicopter pilot and commanded an Air Cavalry Troop. He earned a B.S. degree in Engineering from the United States Military Academy at West Point. Mary Beth Gustafsson joined First Solar in October 2008 as Vice President, General Counsel and was named Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in November 2009. Prior to joining First Solar, Ms. Gustafsson was the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Trane Inc. (formerly American Standard Companies Inc.) from January 2005 through June 2008. From June 2008 through September 2008, Ms. Gustafsson was Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of Ingersoll-Rand Ltd., following Ingersoll-Rand’s acquisition of Trane. From 2001 through 2005, Ms. Gustafsson held positions of increasing responsibility at American Standard Companies Inc., including Chief Corporate Counsel and General Counsel for the company’s global air conditioning business. Ms. Gustafsson holds a B.A. in English Literature from Boston University and a J.D. from The University of Michigan Law School.Carol Campbell joined First Solar in March 2006 as Director of Human Resources and was named Vice President of Human Resources in March 2007. She became the Company’s Executive Vice President of Human Resources in November 2009. Prior to joining First Solar, she was the Regional Director of Human Resources for North America at the Dana Corporation, where she was responsible for all Dana plants in the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Ms. Campbell was with Dana for 20 years, progressing through levels of greater responsibility in the Legal and Human Resource Departments. Ms. Campbell holds a Professional Human Resources certification through the Society of Human Resources Management and has extensive experience successfully developing and running highly effective HR organizations in complex and rapidly changing environments. Ms. Campbell holds a B.A. in Business from Heidelberg College.Maja Wessels joined First Solar in May 2008 as Vice President of Government Affairs for the Europe, Middle East and Africa 12region and was named Executive Vice President, Public Affairs in May 2009.  Prior to joining First Solar, Ms. Wessels served four years as senior vice president, Government Affairs at Honeywell for the EMEA region and three years as President, United Technologies International Operations for Europe. Ms. Wessels chaired the American Electronics Industry Association Europe from 2006 to 2007, and prior to that she was president of the American Chamber of Commerce to the EU from 2003 to 2007. From 1997 to 2000 she was employed by Daimler Chrysler as vice president of Government Affairs in Europe. Ms Wessels holds a B.A. from Dartmouth College and a master’s degree in international economics and European studies from the School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University.David Eaglesham joined First Solar in June 2006 as Vice President, Technology and became Chief Technology Officer in November 2009. Prior to joining First Solar, he was Director of Advanced Technologies at Applied Materials. He also previously worked as Chief Technologist at Lawrence Livermore and as Director of Electronic Device Research at Bell Labs. He was Materials Research Society President in 2005. Mr. Eaglesham has a PhD in Physics from the University of Bristol.Item 1A:  Risk FactorsAn investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information, together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before buying shares of our stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Markets and CustomersAn increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may continue to cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operationsSolar manufacturers have installed production capacity that significantly exceeded global demand in 2011. We believe this structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity significantly exceeds current global demand) will continue for the foreseeable future, and we expect that it will continue to put pressure on pricing.  In light of the increase in global production capacity, we recently decided not to proceed any further with the development of our previously announced 4-line plant in Vietnam, and have also postponed the commissioning of our previously announced 4-line plant in Mesa, Arizona and the construction of our previously announced 2-line plant in France until such time as global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to take further actions to address global production supply and demand in those geographic areas.  Additionally, in 2011, industry average sales prices per watt ("ASPs") declined significantly, as competitors reduced ASPs to sell-through inventories in Europe and elsewhere. If our competitors reduce module pricing to levels near or below their manufacturing costs, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, or if demand for PV modules does not grow sufficiently to justify the current production supply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return, or if sufficient additional demand for solar modules does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our net sales and profit may flatten or decline and we may be unable to sustain profitability.The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development, in comparison to fossil fuel-based electricity generation. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return or if additional demand for solar modules fails to develop sufficiently or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, we may be unable to grow our business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules in our targeted markets, including North America, Europe, India, China, the Middle East, Australia and other foreign jurisdictions, may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for solar systems and modules, including the  following:•cost-effectiveness of the electricity generated by PV power systems compared to conventional energy sources, such as natural gas and coal, and other non-solar renewable energy sources, such as wind;•performance, reliability and availability of energy generated by PV systems compared to conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products;•success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, tidal, wind, geothermal, solar 13thermal, concentrated PV, and biomass;•fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the price of, and demand for, conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of natural gas, coal, oil, and other fossil fuels;•fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar modules, which tend to decrease when the economy slows and when interest rates increase; and•availability, substance, and magnitude of government targets, subsidies, incentives, and renewable portfolio standards to accelerate the development of the solar energy industry.Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, including recently announced mid-year feed-in-tariff reductions or other program changes in Germany and certain other core markets, could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results.Although our Long Term Strategic Plan provides for First Solar to transition over time toward operating in sustainable markets, in the near-term our net sales and profits remain subject to variability based on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Federal, state, and local governmental bodies in many countries have provided subsidies in the form of FiT, rebates, tax incentives, and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators, and manufacturers of PV products. Many of these jurisdictions, including the majority of U.S. states and numerous European Union countries, have adopted renewable portfolio standards in which the government requires jurisdictions or regulated utilities to supply a portion of their total electricity from specified sources of renewable energy, such as solar, wind, and hydroelectric power. Many of these government incentives expire, phase out over time, require renewal by the applicable authority, or may be amended. A summary of recent developments in the major government subsidy programs that can impact our business appears under Item 1: “Business – Support Programs.” To the extent these government incentives are reduced earlier than previously expected, or free-field or conversion land applications are disadvantaged, such changes could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results. Germany, which accounted for approximately  23% of our 2011 net sales, will account for a declining percentage of our net sales over the next three years due to changing levels of policy support and demand.  The German government continues to evaluate changes to the German Renewable Energy Law, or the EEG, and recently proposed significant and accelerated FiT reductions for projects up to 10 MW and an elimination of FiTs for projects over 10 MW.   These proposed FiT changes, if adopted, would particularly impact the competitiveness in Germany of our core offering of large-scale free field PV systems and modules to be installed in such systems.  If these policy changes proposed by the German Environment and Economy Ministers are approved without change by the German Parliament, they will negatively affect long-term demand and price levels for our PV products in Germany, which could adversely impact our results of operations.In France, the government introduced a new market support framework during the first quarter of 2011. The level of this new market support framework is inadequate for us to pursue an expansion strategy in France. As a result, we have postponed the construction of our previously announced 2-line plant in France until global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity.The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) and the 2010 Tax Act provide for certain measures intended to benefit on-grid solar electricity generation and other renewable energy initiatives. The expiration of the Department of Treasury’s Section 1603 cash grant program on December 31, 2011, may adversely affect our ability to arrange financing for utility-scale projects by forcing reliance on less abundant tax equity financing and may otherwise adversely affect the attractiveness of the U.S. solar market. The expiration of the Department of Energy Section 1705 loan guarantee program for renewable energy projects, renewable energy manufacturing facilities and electric power transmission projects may adversely affect our ability to arrange financing in the future for utility-scale projects by increasing our cost of capital, and may also otherwise affect the attractiveness of the U.S. solar market.In Ontario, Canada, a FiT program was introduced in September 2009 and replaced the Renewable Energy Standard Offer Program (RESOP) as the primary subsidy program for renewable energy projects. In order to participate in the Ontario FiT program, certain provisions relating to minimum required domestic content and agricultural land use restrictions for solar installations must be satisfied. The domestic content and land restriction rules do not apply to our solar projects governed by RESOP contracts. However, PV solar power systems incorporating our modules do not presently satisfy the domestic content requirement under the FiT program currently in effect, and thus projects incorporating our modules would not qualify for the Ontario FiT. In the event the Ontario domestic content requirement rules are not eliminated, we will not be able to participate in the Ontario FiT program, 14and thus our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in Ontario, Canada beyond our remaining RESOP projects would be adversely affected. In Australia, the solar industry is driven by several regulatory initiatives that support the installation of solar PV modules in both rooftop and free-field applications, including the federal government’s nationwide Renewable Energy Target, which has set a renewable energy goal for Australia of 20% by 2020. The creation of the Clean Energy Finance Corporation (CEFC) and the establishment of the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) also occurred in 2011 and will begin implementation in 2012. If such programs or other initiatives are not successfully executed in addressing Australia’s renewable energy goals, the size and attractiveness of Australia’s solar market may be limited and we may be unable to sell modules or systems in Australia at an attractive price, limiting one of our anticipated growth markets.In India, the National Solar Mission includes a goal of installing 22 GW of solar by 2022. There is no guarantee that India will maintain this goal or adopt the required policies to meet that goal, without which, the size and attractiveness of India’s solar market may be limited and we may be unable to sell modules or systems in India at an attractive price, limiting one of our anticipated growth markets.In China, governmental authorities recently adopted a national FiT but the specific terms and future of the program are unclear.  It is currently assumed that the term is 25 years and the FiT will be in place in 2012 but not clear if there will be a digression beyond that. The FiT is economically viable given local generation company low return requirements but project costs are depressed given high competition in component manufacturing (i.e. over 400 local module manufacturers are selling into the market). Participation in the Golden Sun Program for distributed generation also includes an implicit requirement for local manufacturing. In the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), several countries have announced sizeable solar targets, although policy mechanisms are not yet firmly established.   Policy promulgation and market development are especially vulnerable to governmental inertia, political instability, geopolitical risk, fossil fuel subsidization, and potentially stringent localization requirements. This vulnerability may adversely affect our ability to expand in or enter into such markets, or may otherwise affect the attractiveness of such solar markets.Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications, could limit our growth or cause our net sales to decline and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We could be adversely affected by any violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and foreign anti-bribery laws. The FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Other countries in which we operate also have anti-bribery laws, some of which prohibit improper payments to government and non-government persons and entities. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We currently operate in, and pursuant to our Long Term Strategic Plan intend to further expand into, many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. In addition, due to the level of regulation in our industry, our entry into new jurisdictions, including India, China, and the Middle East, requires substantial government contact where norms can differ from U.S. standards. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, our employees, subcontractors and agents may take actions in violation of our policies and anti-bribery laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could subject us to criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and reputation. We may be unable to fully execute on our Long Term Strategic Plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  We face numerous difficulties in executing our Long Term Strategic Plan, particularly in new foreign jurisdictions, including each of the risks described in the Risk Factors entitled “Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, and tax conditions in foreign countries.” and “Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, including recently announced mid-year feed-in-tariff reductions or other program changes in Germany and certain other core markets, could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results,” as well as the following:15•difficulty in accurately prioritizing geographic markets which we can most effectively and profitably serve with our utility scale PV offerings, including miscalculations in overestimating or underestimating our addressable market demand;•difficulty in overcoming the inertia involved in changing local electricity ecosystems as necessary to accommodate large-scale PV solar deployment and integration;•protectionist or other adverse public policies in countries we operate in and/or are pursuing, including local content requirements or capital investment requirements; •difficulty in timely identifying, attracting and retaining qualified sales, technical and other personnel in geographies targeted for expansion;•the possibility of having insufficient capital resources necessary to acheive an effective localized business presence in targeted jurisdictions;•difficulty in competing against competitors who may have greater financial resources and/or a more effective or established localized business presence;•difficulty in competing against competitors who may gain in profitability and financial strength over time by successfully participating in the global rooftop PV solar market, which is a segment we intend to de-emphasize as part of our Long Term Strategic Plan;•difficulty in developing any necessary partnerships with local businesses, on commercially acceptable terms; and•difficulty in balancing market demand and manufacturing production in an efficient and timely manner, potentially causing us to be manufacturing capacity constrained in some future periods or over-supplied in others.An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar systems or modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for PV modules.Many of our customers and our systems business depend on debt and/or equity financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to develop, build and purchase a PV system. As a result, an increase in interest rates or lending rates, or a reduction in the supply of project debt financing or tax equity investments, could reduce the number of solar projects that receive financing or otherwise make it difficult for our customers or our systems business to secure the financing necessary to develop, build, purchase or install a PV system on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for our solar modules which could limit our growth or reduce our net sales. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our end-users install PV systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates and/or lending rates could lower an investor’s return on investment in a PV system, increase equity return requirements or make alternative investments more attractive relative to PV systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek alternative investments.  As described above under Item 1: “Business — Support Programs,” the 30% grant in lieu of the federal investment tax credit under the ARRA expired December 31, 2011 and unless extended, will not be available for solar installations that begin construction on or after January 1, 2012. If such program is not extended, total tax equity availability could be reduced which may adversely affect our ability to arrange financing for utility-scale projects and may adversely affect the attractiveness of the U.S. solar market.We currently depend on a limited number of customers within our components business. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers could significantly reduce our net sales and negatively impact our operating results.Within our components business, we continue to sell a sizeable portion of our solar modules to customers headquartered throughout the European Union, although this portion is expected to continue to decline as we execute our Long Term Strategic Plan. During 2011, our two largest customers for our components business each accounted for more than 10%  of our components business’ net sales. Our customer base within our components business is still concentrated to a significant extent in Germany and, therefore, additional German FiT reductions could reduce demand and/or price levels for our modules sold to these customers. The loss of any of our large customers, their inability to perform under their contracts, or their default in payment could significantly reduce our net sales and adversely impact our operating results. Our customers may face significant challenges under current economic conditions, including lack of capital to finance solar projects and rising costs associated with leasing or otherwise acquiring land and rooftops for solar projects. Although we believe that we can mitigate this risk in part by re-allocating modules 16to other customers if the need arises, we may be unable, in whole or in part, to mitigate the reduced demand for our modules. Further, in the event that we determine that our planned production of solar modules exceeds the demand we anticipate, we may decide to reduce or halt production of solar modules in our manufacturing facilities. However, we may incur costs in doing so and we may be unable to anticipate and respond to the oversupply of solar modules because we have limited visibility into our customers’ inventories. Risks Related to RegulationsExisting regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory, and economic barriers to the purchase and use of PV products, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar modules.The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state, and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of PV products and investment in the research and development of PV technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for PV systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. If these interconnection standby fees were applicable to PV systems, it is likely that they would increase the cost of using PV systems to our end-users, which could make them less desirable, thereby adversely affecting our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, with respect to utilities that utilize a peak hour pricing policy or time-of-use pricing methods whereby the price of electricity is adjusted based on electricity supply and demand, electricity generated by PV systems currently benefits from competing primarily with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate for all times of the day, would require PV systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity from other sources.We anticipate that our solar systems and modules will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering, and other matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual jurisdictions and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar modules may result in significant additional expenses to us or our customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar systems and modules.Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows, and profitability.Our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation, and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local, and international levels. These environmental laws and regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, and occupational health and safety. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs, or other costs. Such solutions could also result in substantial delay or termination of projects under construction within our systems business, which could adversely impact our results of operations. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.In addition, our solar modules contain cadmium telluride and cadmium sulfide. Elemental cadmium and certain of its compounds are regulated as hazardous material due to the adverse health effects that may arise from human exposure. Although the risks of exposure to cadmium telluride are not believed to be as serious as those relating to exposure to elemental cadmium, the toxicological properties of cadmium telluride have not been thoroughly investigated and reported. In our manufacturing operations, we maintain engineering controls to minimize our associates’ exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds and require our associates who handle cadmium compounds to follow certain safety procedures, including the use of personal protective equipment such as respirators, chemical goggles, and protective clothing. In addition, we believe the risk of exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds from our end-products is limited by the encapsulated nature of these materials in our products and the physical properties of cadmium compounds used in our products, and further minimized by the voluntary implementation in 2005 of our collection and recycling program for our solar modules. While we believe that these factors and procedures are sufficient 17to protect our associates, end-users, and the general public from adverse health effects that may arise from cadmium exposure, we cannot ensure that human or environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in our products will not occur. Any such exposure could result in future third party claims against us, as well as damage to our reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our products, which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute our products. The occurrence of future events such as these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The use of cadmium in various products is also subject to governmental regulation in several countries. More restrictive regulation in this area and/or expansion of such regulation to additional countries could impact the manufacture, sale, collection, and recycling of solar modules and could require us to make unforeseen environmental expenditures or limit our ability to sell and distribute our products.  Risks Related to our Operations, Manufacturing, and TechnologyOur operating history to date may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations.Our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance, and prospects. We may be unable to achieve similar growth, or grow at all, in future periods. Our ability to achieve similar growth in future periods is also affected by current economic conditions. Our past results occurred in an environment where, among other things, capital was at times more accessible to our customers to finance the cost of developing solar projects and economic incentives for solar power in certain core markets (such as the German FiT) were more favorable. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior period as an indication of our future performance. We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules, as well as thin-film solar modules, and solar thermal and concentrated PV systems; if global supply exceeds global demand, it could lead to a reduction in the average selling price for PV modules, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations.The solar energy and renewable energy industries are highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. Within the global PV industry, we face competition from crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers, other thin-film solar module manufacturers and companies developing solar thermal and concentrated PV technologies. Existing or future solar manufacturers might be acquired by larger companies with significant capital resources, thereby intensifying competition with us.  In addition, the introduction of a low cost disruptive technology could adversely affect our ability to compete, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Even if demand for solar modules continues to grow, the rapid manufacturing capacity expansion undertaken by many solar module manufacturers, particularly manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules, has created and may continue to cause periods of structural imbalance during which supply exceeds demand. See “An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may continue to cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” In addition, we believe a significant decrease in the cost of silicon feedstock would provide significant reductions in the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules and lead to further pricing pressure for solar modules and potentially the oversupply of solar modules. During any such period, our competitors could decide to reduce their sales prices in response to competition, even below their manufacturing costs, in order to generate sales. Other competitors may have direct or indirect access to sovereign capital, which could enable such competitors to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time. As a result, we may be unable to sell our solar modules at attractive prices, or for a profit, during any period of excess supply of solar modules, which would reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Also, we may decide to lower our average selling price to certain customers in certain markets in response to competition.Thin-film technology has a short history, and our thin-film technology and solar modules and systems may perform below expectations; problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur significant and/or unexpected warranty and related expenses, damage our market reputation, and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share.Researchers began developing thin-film semiconductor technology over 25 years ago, but were unable to integrate the technology into a solar module production line until about a decade ago. Our thin-film technology and solar modules may not have a sufficient operating history to confirm how our solar modules will perform over their estimated 25-year useful life. We perform a variety of quality and life tests under different conditions. However, if our thin-film technology and solar modules perform below expectations, we could lose customers and face substantial warranty expense.18We have historically provided a limited warranty against defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for 5 years following delivery to the owners of our solar modules. For solar module sales made subsequent to September 30, 2011, we have increased the limited warranty we provide against defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions from 5 years to 10 years.We also warrant to our owners that solar modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications will produce at least 90% of their power output rating during the first 10 years following their installation and at least 80% of their power output rating during the following 15 years. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our solar modules and recognized net sales. As of December 31, 2011, our accrued warranty liability was $157.7 million, of which, $78.6 million was classified as current and $79.1 million was classified as noncurrent. During the period from June 2008 to June 2009, a manufacturing excursion occurred whereby certain modules manufactured during that time period may experience premature power loss once installed in the field.  The root cause of the manufacturing excursion was identified and addressed in June 2009.  Beginning in 2009, we initiated a voluntary remediation program beyond our standard warranty pursuant to which we made commitments to customers with systems containing modules affected by the manufacturing excursion that we would cover certain costs of remediation efforts. We have expensed $215.7 million total to-date for the estimated costs of remediating systems affected by modules manufactured during the relevant period, including $145.6 million for remediation expenses beyond our limited warranty obligations and $70.1 million in product warranty expense reflecting the net increase in the expected number of replacement modules required in connection with our remediation efforts. This estimate is based on our evaluation and consideration of the currently available information, including the estimated number of affected modules in the field, historical experience related to our remediation efforts, customer-provided data related to potentially affected systems, and the estimated costs of performing the logistical services covered under our remediation program.  In addition to those customers with systems affected by modules manufactured during the relevant period that we have already identified, we are working with a number of additional customers who may have affected modules to complete our analysis of their claims. Based upon our experience to date with our remediation approach, together with the data currently available, we estimate that, if we ultimately remediate these systems under our current remediation program, we could incur additional costs related to our voluntary remediation program of up to approximately $44 million. This includes approximately $24 million beyond our limited warranty obligations in connection with these claims, including the costs of actual remediation and the costs of additional compensation payments to customers under certain circumstances, and approximately $20 million related to additional product warranty liability.    If any of our estimates related to the above referenced manufacturing excursion prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses, which could adversely impact our financial position, operating results and cash flows.  Although we believe we have taken corrective actions to avoid similar manufacturing excursions in the future, we cannot guarantee that our internal quality and testing programs will prevent a future manufacturing excursion from occurring.  Any future manufacturing excursions including any commitments made by us to take remediation actions in respect of affected modules beyond our limited warranty could adversely impact our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Although our power output warranty extends for 25 years, our oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification of our pilot production line have only been in use since 2001.  Because of the limited operating history of our solar modules, we have been required to make assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our solar modules.  Our assumptions could prove to be materially different from the actual performance of our solar modules, causing us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules in the future.  For example, our glass-on-glass solar modules could break, delaminate, or experience power degradation in excess of expectations, and our manufacturing operations could be subject to process variations that could cause affected modules to underperform compared to our expectations.  These risks could be amplified as we implement design and process changes in connection with our efforts to accelerate module conversion efficiency improvement and manufacturing production throughput as part of our Long Term Strategic Plan.  In addition, as we increase the number of installations in non-temperate climates, in accordance with our Long Term Strategic Plan, we may experience increased failure rates due to deployment into such hot climates.  Any widespread product failures may damage our market reputation, cause our sales to decline, require us to repair or replace the defective modules, and cause us to take voluntary remedial measures beyond warranty terms to enhance customer satisfaction, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.In addition to our solar module warranty described above, for solar power plants built by our EPC team, we currently typically provide a limited EPC warranty against defects in workmanship, engineering design, and installation services under normal use and service conditions for a period of one to two years following the substantial completion of a solar power plant or an energized section of a solar power plant. In resolving claims under both the workmanship and design warranties, we have the option of either remedying the defect to the warranted level through repair, refurbishment, or replacement.  Any widespread failures of solar power plants built by us could damage our market reputation, cause our sales to decline, cause us to incur unexpected costs to remedy defects or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. 19If our estimates regarding the future cost of collecting and recycling our solar modules are incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and face a significant unplanned cash burden.We pre-fund our estimated future obligation for collecting and recycling our solar modules based on the present value of the expected future cost of collecting and recycling the modules, which includes the cost of packaging the solar modules for transport, the cost of freight from the solar module’s installation site to a recycling center, the material, labor, and capital costs of the recycling process, and an estimated third party profit margin and return on risk for collection and recycling. We base our estimate on our experience collecting and recycling solar modules that do not pass our quality control tests and solar modules returned under our warranty, and on our expectations about future developments in recycling technologies and processes and economic conditions at the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled. If our estimates prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and also face a significant unplanned cash burden at the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or end-users return their solar modules, which could harm our operating results. In addition, our end-users can return their solar modules at any time. As a result, we could be required to collect and recycle our solar modules earlier than we expect.Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved PV products could render our solar modules or systems uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share.We need to continue to invest significant financial resources in research and development to continue to improve our module conversion efficiency, lower the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) of our PV systems, and otherwise keep pace with technological advances in the solar energy industry. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we could encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. We seek to continuously improve our products and processes, and the resulting changes carry potential risks in the form of delays, additional costs, or other unintended contingencies. In addition, our significant expenditures on research and development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other companies are developing a variety of competing PV technologies, including copper indium gallium diselenide and amorphous silicon, which could produce solar modules or systems that prove more cost-effective or have better performance than our solar modules or systems. In addition, other companies could potentially develop a highly reliable renewable energy system that mitigates the intermittent power production drawback of many renewable energy systems, or offers other value-added improvements from the perspective of utilities and other system owners, in which case such companies could compete with us even if the LCOE associated with such new system is higher than that of our systems. As a result, our solar modules or systems may be negatively differentiated or rendered obsolete by the technological advances of our competitors, which would reduce our net sales, profitability and/or market share.In addition, we often forward price our products and services in anticipation of future cost reductions, and thus an inability to further refine our technology and execute our long-term manufacturing cost and LCOE reduction objectives could adversely affect our margins and operating results.Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly.Protection of our proprietary processes, methods, and other technology is critical to our business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. We regularly file patent applications to protect inventions arising from our research and development, and are currently pursuing such patent applications in the U.S. and worldwide. Our existing patents and future patents could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or rendered unenforceable. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not be sufficient to provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies.We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation, and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our associates and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in duration and could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology, trade secrets, and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods, and compounds could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, especially any developing countries into which we may expand our operations. In some countries we have not applied for patent, trademark, or copyright protection.20 Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation may impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects, and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties.Some of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of third party suppliers and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver solar modules to customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price that is profitable to us.Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity, and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules or increase our manufacturing cost. Some of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of third party suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair our operations. In addition, some of our suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for raw materials and components as we continue to expand rapidly. We may be unable to identify new suppliers or qualify their products for use on our production lines in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. A constraint on our production may cause us to be unable to meet our capacity ramp plan and/or our obligations under our customer contracts, which would have an adverse impact on our financial results. A disruption in our supply chain for cadmium telluride, our semiconductor material, could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture solar modules and could adversely impact our profitability and long-term growth prospects.A key raw material we use in our production process is a cadmium telluride compound. Tellurium, one of the main components of cadmium telluride, is mainly produced as a by-product of copper refining and, therefore, its supply is largely dependent upon demand for copper. Our supply of cadmium telluride could be limited if any of our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers are unable to acquire an adequate supply of tellurium in a timely manner or at commercially reasonable prices. If our competitors begin to use or increase their demand for cadmium telluride, supply could be reduced and prices could increase. If our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers cannot obtain sufficient tellurium, they could substantially increase prices or be unable to perform under their contracts. We may be unable to pass increases in the cost of our raw materials through to our customers because our customer contracts do not adjust for raw material price increases and are generally for a longer term than our raw material supply contracts. A substantial increase in tellurium prices could adversely impact our profitability and long-term growth objectives. Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand and, when necessary, continue to build new manufacturing plants over time in response to such demand and add production lines in a cost-effective manner, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties.Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand and increase both our manufacturing capacity and production throughput over time in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we cannot do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease our manufacturing cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy our contractual obligations, or sustain profitability. See “An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may continue to cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Our ability to expand production capacity is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the following:•making changes to our production process that are not properly qualified or that may cause problems with the quality of our solar modules;•delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as our inability to secure successful contracts with equipment vendors;•our custom-built equipment taking longer and costing more to manufacture than expected and not operating as designed;•delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities;21•being unable to hire qualified staff; •failure to execute our expansion plans effectively;•manufacturing concentration risk resulting from a majority of production lines worldwide being located in one geographic area, Malaysia;•difficulty in balancing market demand and manufacturing production in an efficient and timely manner, potentially causing us to be manufacturing capacity constrained in some future periods or over-supplied in others; and•Incurring manufacturing asset write-downs, write-offs and other charges and costs, which may be significant, during those periods in which we idle, slow down or shut down manufacturing capacity. If our future production lines are not built in line with our committed schedules it may impair our growth plans. If our future production lines do not achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers.If we are unable to systematically replicate our production lines as necessary over time and achieve and sustain similar operating metrics in our future production lines as we have achieved at our existing production lines, our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained, our manufacturing costs per watt could increase, and this may impair our growth plans and/or cause us to lose customers, resulting in lower net sales, higher liabilities, and lower net income than we anticipate. For instance, future production lines could produce solar modules that have lower conversion efficiencies, higher failure rates, and higher rates of degradation than solar modules from our existing production lines, and we could be unable to determine the cause of the lower operating metrics or develop and implement solutions to improve performance.  In addition, we might be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our customer contracts.Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced. If our manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our contractual requirements.Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our production lines based on designs or specifications that we provide to the equipment manufacturer, which then undertakes a specialized process to manufacture the custom equipment. As a result, the equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. If any piece of equipment fails, production along the entire production line could be interrupted. In addition, the failure of our equipment suppliers to supply equipment in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our expansion plans and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our manufacturing costs, all of which would adversely impact our financial results.If we are unable to further increase the number of sellable watts per solar module and reduce our manufacturing cost per watt, our profitability could decline.Our profitability could decline if we are unable to continue to reduce our manufacturing cost per watt. Furthermore, our failure to reduce cost per watt by increasing our efficiency may impair our ability to enter new markets that we believe will require lower cost per watt for us to be competitive and may impair our growth plans.We may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations effectively.We expect to continue to expand our business in order to provide utility-scale PV generation to existing and new geographic markets and to maintain or increase market share. To manage the continued expansion of our operations, we will be required to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train, and manage our growing associate base. Our management will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers, and other third parties and attract new customers and suppliers. In addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, and internal controls and procedures might be inadequate to support our future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures.Implementing a new enterprise resource planning system could interfere with our business or operations and could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.22We are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. Phase 1 of this implementation was completed in the second half of 2010, and the second phase of this implementation was completed in the second half of 2011. This project requires significant investment of capital and human resources, the re-engineering of many processes of our business, and the attention of many associates and managers who would otherwise be focused on other aspects of our business. Any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP system could result in potentially much higher costs than we had anticipated and could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, file SEC reports in a timely manner and/or otherwise operate our business, or otherwise impact our controls environment, and any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, and tax conditions in foreign countries.We have significant marketing, distribution, and manufacturing operations both within and outside the United States. In 2011, 43% of our net sales were generated from customers headquartered in the European Union. We expect to continue to expand our operations into China, India, other countries in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and elsewhere; as a result, we will be subject to the legal, political, social, tax, and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following:•difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems;•varying degrees of protection afforded to foreign investments in the countries in which we operate, and irregular interpretations and enforcement of laws and regulations in these jurisdictions;•foreign countries may impose additional income and withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign operations, impose tariffs, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls;•fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars to the extent the price of our solar modules and cost of raw materials, labor, and equipment is denominated in a foreign currency;•inability to obtain, maintain, or enforce intellectual property rights;•risk of nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises;•changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate, including changes in the government incentives we are relying on;•unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties, and quotas;•opaque approval processes in which the lack of transparency may cause delays and increase the uncertainty of project approvals;•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;•difficulty in repatriating earnings;•difficulty in negotiating a successful collective bargaining agreement in applicable foreign jurisdictions;•trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes, local content requirements, and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the price of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some countries; and•difficulty of, and costs relating to, compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas countries in which we offer and sell our solar modules. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social, and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we 23do business.Risks Related to Our Systems BusinessProject development or construction activities may not be successful and projects under development may not receive required permits, real property rights, power purchase agreements (PPAs), interconnection and transmission arrangements or financing or construction may not commence or proceed as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments.The development and construction of solar power electric generation facilities and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for land and interconnection rights, preliminary engineering, permitting, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things:•obtaining satisfactory land rights, including environmental mitigation lands;•receipt from governmental agencies of required land use and construction permits and approvals;•receipt of rights to interconnect the project to the electric grid or to transmit energy;•payment of interconnection and other deposits (some of which are non-refundable);•negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement, and construction agreements;•entering into financeable arrangements for the purchase of the electrical output and renewable energy attributes generated by the project;•securing a project site and necessary rights of way;•obtaining construction financing, including debt, equity and funds associated with the monetization of tax credits and other tax benefits; and•timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction.Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:•delays in obtaining and maintaining required governmental permits and approvals, including appeals of approvals obtained;•potential challenges from project stakeholders, including local residents, environmental organizations, and others who may not support the project; •unforeseen engineering problems;•construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls;•work stoppages;•cost over-runs;•labor, equipment and materials supply shortages or disruptions;•additional complexities when conducting project development or construction activities in foreign jurisdictions, including operating in accordance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and applicable local laws and customs;•unfavorable tax treatment;•adverse weather conditions; 24•adverse environmental and geological conditions; and•force majeure and other events out of our control.If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power facility, we fail to meet one or more agreed target construction milestone dates, any agreed upon system-level capacity or energy output guarantees or warranties (including, for some projects, twenty-five year energy performance or system-level module degradation warranties and guarantees), or other contract terms, or our projects cause grid interference or other damage, we may be subject to forfeiture of significant deposits under power purchase agreements or interconnection agreements or termination of such agreements, significant liquidated damages, penalties and/or other obligations under the EPC agreement or other agreements relating to the project (including obligations to repair, replace and/or supplement additional modules and balance of system materials for the project), particularly if our liabilities are not capped under the terms of such agreement, and we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project.  Some of these penalties might require us to repurchase the project from the buyer or to down-size the project, under certain circumstances.  If we were required to repurchase a project, we may have insufficient cash or capital resources necessary to make the repurchase payment or we may be unable to resell the project in a timely manner or on terms commercially satisfactory to us, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Some of these investments are included as assets on our consolidated balance sheet under the line item “Project assets.” If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power project, we may write-down or write-off some or all of these capitalized investments, which would have an adverse impact on our net income in the period in which the loss is recognized. In 2012, we expect to invest a significant amount of capital to develop projects owned by us or third parties, which may limit the availability of capital to use for other purposes, such as contract damages or repurchase payments. We may enter into fixed-price EPC contracts in which we act as the general contractor for our customers in connection with the installation of their solar power systems. All essential costs are estimated at the time of entering into the EPC contract for a particular project, and these are reflected in the overall fixed-price that we charge our customers for the project. These cost estimates are preliminary and may or may not be covered by contracts between us or the subcontractors, suppliers, and other parties to the project. In addition, we require qualified, licensed subcontractors to install most of our systems. Shortages of such skilled labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. Should miscalculations in planning a project occur (including those due to unexpected increases in inflation, commodity prices or labor costs) or delays in execution occur and we are unable to increase commensurately the EPC sales price, we may not achieve our expected margins or we may be required to record a loss in the relevant fiscal period.We may be unable to acquire or lease land, obtain necessary interconnection and transmission rights, and/or obtain the approvals, licenses,  permits and electric transmission grid interconnection and transmission rights necessary to build and operate PV power plants in a timely and cost effective manner, and regulatory agencies, local communities, labor unions or other third parties may delay, prevent, or increase the cost of construction and operation of the PV plants we intend to build.In order to construct and operate our PV plants, we need to acquire or lease land and rights of way, obtain interconnection rights, and obtain all necessary local, county, state, federal, and foreign approvals, licenses, and permits as well as rights to interconnect the plants to the transmission grid and transmit energy generated from the plant. We may be unable to acquire the land or lease interests needed, may not obtain satisfactory interconnection rights, may not receive or retain the requisite approvals, permits, licenses and interconnection and transmission rights, or may encounter other problems which could delay or prevent us from successfully constructing and operating PV plants.   Many of our proposed PV plants are located on or require access through public lands administered by federal and state agencies pursuant to competitive public leasing and right-of-way procedures and processes. The authorization for the use, construction, and operation of PV plants and associated transmission facilities on federal, state, and private lands will also require the assessment and evaluation of mineral rights, private rights-of-way, and other easements; environmental, agricultural, cultural, recreational, and aesthetic impacts; and the likely mitigation of adverse impacts to these and other resources and uses. The inability to obtain the required permits and, potentially, excessive delay in obtaining such permits due, for example, to litigation or third party appeals, could prevent us from successfully constructing and operating PV plants in a timely manner and could result in a potential forfeiture of any deposit we have made with respect to a given project. Moreover, project approvals subject to project modifications and conditions, including mitigation requirements and costs, could affect the financial success of a given project.In addition, local labor unions may increase the cost of, and/or lower the productivity of, project development in Canada, California, and elsewhere. We may also be subject to labor unavailability and/or increased union labor requirements due to multiple simultaneous projects in a geographic region.Lack of transmission capacity availability, potential upgrade costs to the transmission grid, and other systems constraints could significantly impact our ability to build PV plants and generate solar electricity power sales.25 In order to deliver electricity from our PV plants to our customers, our projects need to connect to the transmission grid. The lack of available capacity on the transmission grid could substantially impact our projects and cause reductions in project size, delays in project implementation, increases in costs from transmission upgrades, and potential forfeitures of any deposit we have made with respect to a given project. These transmission issues, as well as issues relating to the availability of large systems such as transformers and switch gear, could significantly impact our ability to build PV plants and generate solar electricity sales. Our systems business is largely dependent on us and third parties arranging financing from various sources, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms or in insufficient amounts. The construction of the large utility-scale solar power projects under development by us is expected in many cases to require project financing, including non-recourse project debt financing in the bank loan market and institutional debt capital markets. Uncertainties exist as to whether our projects will be able to access the debt markets in a magnitude sufficient to finance their construction. If we are unable to arrange such financing or if it is only available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to fully execute our systems business plan. In addition, we generally expect to sell our projects by raising project equity capital from tax- oriented, strategic industry, and other equity investors. Such equity sources may not be available or may only be available in insufficient amounts, in which case our ability to sell our projects may be delayed or limited and our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. Even if such financing sources are available, the counterparty to many of our fixed-price EPC contracts, which own the project we are constructing, are often special purpose vehicles that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the project and have pledged all or substantially all of these assets to secure the project-related debt and certain other sources of financing.  If the owner defaults on its payment or other obligations to us, we may face difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended or committed to be expended to purchase equipment or supplies (including intercompany purchases of PV modules), or for termination payments we are entitled to under the terms of the related EPC contract. If we are unable to collect the amounts owed to us, or are unable to complete the project because of an owner default, we may be required to record a charge against earnings related to the project, which could result in a material loss. In addition, for projects to which we provide EPC services but are not the project developer, our EPC activities are in many cases dependent on the ability of third parties to finance their PV plant projects, which, in turn, is dependent on their ability to obtain financing for such purchases on acceptable terms. Depending on prevailing conditions in the credit markets, interest rates and other factors, such financing may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms or in insufficient amounts. If third parties are limited in their ability to access financing to support their purchase of PV power plant construction services from us, we may not realize the cash flows that we expect from such sales, and this could adversely affect our ability to invest in our business and/or generate revenue. See also the risk factor above entitled “An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for PV modules.”  Developing solar power projects may require significant upfront investment prior to the signing of an EPC contract and commencing construction, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the identification of land and the commercial operation of a PV power plant project, vary substantially and can take many months or years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles, we may need to make significant upfront investments of resources (including, for example, payments for land rights, large transmission and PPA deposits or other payments, which may be non-refundable) in advance of the signing of EPC contracts and commencing construction and the receipt of any revenue, much of which is not recognized for several additional months or years following contract signing. Our potential inability to enter into sales contracts with potential customers after making such upfront investments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we may become constrained in our ability to simultaneously fund our other business operations and these systems investments through our long project development cycles.Our liquidity may be adversely affected to the extent the project sale market weakens and we are unable to sell our solar projects on pricing, terms and timing commercially acceptable to us.We may not be able to obtain long-term contracts for the sale of power produced by our projects at prices and on other terms favorable to attract financing and other investments.Obtaining long-term contracts for the sale of power produced by the projects at prices and on other terms favorable to us is essential for obtaining financing and commencing construction of our projects.  We must compete for power purchase agreements 26against other developers of solar and renewable energy projects. Further, other sources of power, such as natural gas-fired power plants, have historically been cheaper than the cost of solar power and power from certain types of projects, such as natural gas-fired power plants, can be delivered on a firm basis.  The inability to compete successfully against other power producers or otherwise enter into PPAs favorable to us would negatively affect our ability to develop and finance our projects and negatively impact our revenue. In addition, the availability of power purchase agreements is a function of a number of economic, regulatory, tax and public policy factors.We may be subject to  unforeseen costs, liabilities or obligations when providing O&M services.For solar power plants which we have developed and built, we may provide ongoing O&M services to the system owner under fixed-price long-term service agreements, pursuant to which we generally perform all scheduled and unscheduled maintenance for the system, perform operating and other asset management services for the system and provide an availability guarantee for the system.  Our costs to perform these services  are estimated at the time of entering into the O&M agreement for a particular project, and these are reflected in the fixed-price that we charge our customers under the O&M agreement.  We do not have extensive experience in performing O&M services for PV solar power plants and estimating actual costs to serve under our O&M agreements relative to the price that we charge our customers, particularly in foreign jurisdictions in which we plan to offer PV systems solutions as part of our Long Term Strategic Plan.  Should miscalculations in estimating these costs occur (including those due to unexpected increases in inflation or labor or BoS costs), our growth strategy and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Because of the long-term nature of these O&M agreements, such as 25 years, such adverse impacts on results of operations could be significant, particularly if our liabilities are not capped or subject to an above-market liability cap under the terms of the O&M agreement.  We also could be subject to substantial costs, liabilities or obligations in the event our solar systems do not meet any agreed-upon system-level availability, energy or performance guarantees or warranties.  Other RisksWe may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management.We have made several acquisitions in the last several years, and in the future we may acquire additional companies, project pipelines, products, or technologies or enter into joint ventures or other strategic initiatives. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include the following:•difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company;•difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies;•difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures, and policies during the transition and integration;•disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and associates from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues;•difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, and other administrative systems;•inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business;•inability to retain key customers, vendors, and other business partners of the acquired business;•inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses;•incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results;•potential impairment of our relationships with our associates, customers, partners, distributors, or third party providers of technology or products;•potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, legal and financial liabilities, among other things;•potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective;27•potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and•potential delay in customer purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings.Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key associates and to successfully integrate them into our management team.We are dependent on the services of our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of these key associates or any other member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to retain or replace these key associates, and we may not have adequate succession plans in place. Several of our current key associates including our executive officers are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice and the enforceability of the non-competition provisions is uncertain.Our current chief executive officer has been serving on an interim basis since October 2011.  We could be subject to management disruptions or distractions resulting from any extended delay in hiring a new chief executive officer or from such new chief executive officer’s integration into the Company.  If we are unable to attract, train, and retain key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected.Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train, and retain management, operations, and technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the PV industry and thin-film technology, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates, or otherwise experience labor disruptions our business may be materially and adversely affected.Certain types of services provided by onsite workers are subject to the Davis-Bacon Act.  The Davis-Bacon Act requires that a contractor pay all personnel assigned to the contract at least the prevailing wage and fringe benefits, as established by and in accordance with the regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor. We have an established policy pursuant to which we evaluate Davis-Bacon Act requirements and ensure our compliance with these requirements.  If the Department of Labor were to determine that anyone working under such contracts were not properly classified, or were being paid the incorrect prevailing wage, we could incur additional liability with respect to such workers.  Any such liability incurred above our anticipated costs for these services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technology.Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents involve complex scientific, legal, and factual considerations and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our solar module, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our solar modules until the resolution of such litigation.Currency translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales, and gross margins and could result in exchange losses.28Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. As a result, we are subject to currency translation and transaction risk. For example, 43% and 73% of our net sales were denominated in euros for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and we expect a large percentage of our net sales to be outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies in the future. In addition, our operating expenses for our manufacturing plants located outside the U.S.  and our operations for our systems business in foreign countries will generally be denominated in the local currency. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect our net sales and cost of sales and could result in exchange gains or losses. For example, during 2011 our net sales was reduced by $6.3 million due to a decrease in the blended exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar. In addition, we incur currency translation risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from our reporting currency. For example, our Supply Contracts specify pricing in euros through 2012 and do not adjust for changes in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations.We could also expand our business into emerging markets, many of which have an uncertain regulatory environment relating to currency policy. Conducting business in such emerging markets could cause our exposure to changes in exchange rates to increase.Our ability to hedge foreign currency exposure is dependent on our credit profile with the banks that are willing and able to do business with us. Deterioration in our credit position or a significant tightening of the credit market conditions could limit our ability to hedge our foreign currency exposure; and therefore, result in exchange gains or losses.The ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe could adversely impact our business.The ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe and its impact on the balance sheets and lending practices of European banks in particular could negatively impact our access to, and cost of, capital, and therefore could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. It could also similarly affect our customers and therefore limit the sales of our modules and demand for our systems business as well. The European sovereign debt crisis may also cause European governments to reduce, eliminate or allow to expire government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy, which could limit our growth or cause our net sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have significant control over us and their interests may conflict with or differ from interests of other stockholders.Our largest stockholder, the Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates, including JCL Holdings, LLC and JTW Trust No. 1 UAD 9/19/02 (collectively, the Estate), owned approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock at December 31, 2011. As a result, the Estate has substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of the Estate could conflict with or differ from interests of other stockholders. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Estate could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination which a majority of stockholders may view favorably.If our goodwill or project assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements should we determine that our goodwill or project assets are impaired. Such a charge might have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations.  During the fourth quarter of 2011 we recorded goodwill impairment expense of  $393.4 million related to our components reporting unit as discussed further in Note 5. “Goodwill and Intangible Assets,” to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As required by accounting rules, we review our goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit that has goodwill is less than its carrying value. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill might not be recoverable include a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in projections of future cash flows and lower future growth rates in our industry.  We review project assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We consider a project commercially viable and recoverable if it is anticipated to be saleable for a profit once it is either fully developed or fully constructed. If our projects are  not considered commercially viable, we would be required to 29impair the respective project assets.  Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of a new U.S. tax legislation, or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding, and other items in inter-company transactions. We are subject to potential tax examinations in these various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our inter-company charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other tax positions and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these potential examinations, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of examinations could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income, and cash flows. In addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, loss of our Malaysian tax holiday, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with tax holidays or differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. In addition, recently announced proposals for new U.S. tax legislation could have a material effect on the results of our operations; if enacted.Our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business.We may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, and obtain additional financing, if needed, because our revolving credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and our Malaysian and German facility agreements contain, and any of our other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things:•incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees;•create liens;•enter into certain transactions with our affiliates;•sell certain assets; and•declare or pay dividends, make other distributions to stockholders, or make other restricted payments.Under our revolving credit agreement and our Malaysian and German facility agreements, we are also subject to certain financial condition covenants. Our ability to comply with covenants under our credit agreements is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements and any of our other future debt agreements, which if not cured or waived, could permit the holders thereof to accelerate such debt and could cause cross-defaults under our other facility agreements and the possible acceleration of debt under such other facility agreements, as well as cross-defaults under certain of our key project and operational agreements. In addition, we cannot assure you that events that occur within the Company, or in the industry or the economy as a whole, will not constitute material adverse effects under these agreements. If it is determined that a material adverse effect has occurred, the lenders can, under certain circumstances, restrict future borrowings or accelerate the due date of outstanding loan balances. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may in the future not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, and we may experience cross-defaults under our other debt agreements or project and key operational agreements, which could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Item 1B