Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and factors that are unknown or unpredictable. We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESSOVERVIEWFMC Technologies, Inc. is a global provider of technology solutions for the energy industry. FMC Technologies, Inc. was incorporated in November 2000 under Delaware law and was a wholly-owned subsidiary of FMC Corporation until our initial public offering in June 2001. Our principal executive offices are located at 5875 North Sam Houston Parkway West, Houston, Texas 77086. As used in this report, except where otherwise stated or indicated by the context, all references to the “Company,” “FMC Technologies,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are to FMC Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.We design, manufacture and service technologically sophisticated systems and products, including subsea production and processing systems, surface wellhead production systems, high pressure fluid control equipment, measurement solutions and marine loading systems for the energy industry. We report the results of operations in the following reporting segments: Subsea Technologies, Surface Technologies and Energy Infrastructure. Financial information about our business segments is incorporated herein by reference from Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.During 2012, we acquired the remaining 55% of Schilling Robotics, LLC (“Schilling Robotics”), 100% of Pure Energy Services Ltd. (“Pure Energy”) and 100% of Control Systems International, Inc. (“CSI”). Schilling Robotics is a supplier of advanced robotic intervention products, including a line of remotely operating vehicle systems (“ROV”), manipulator systems and subsea control systems. The acquisition of the remaining 55% of Schilling Robotics will allow us to grow in the expanding subsea environment, where demand for ROVs and the need for maintenance activities of subsea equipment is expected to increase. Additionally, we acquired Pure Energy, a provider of fracturing flowback services and wireline services. The acquisition of Pure Energy is expected to complement the existing products and services of our Surface Technologies segment and to create client value by providing an integrated well site solution. Finally, we acquired CSI, a provider of automation, control and information technology to the oil and gas industry. We expect CSI will enhance our automation and controls technologies and benefit production and processing businesses such as measurement solutions through comprehensive fuel terminal and pipeline automation systems. Additional financial information about our 2012 business combinations is incorporated herein by reference from Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.3Table of ContentsOur Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through our website at www.fmctechnologies.com, under “Investors—Financial Information—SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after we file the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference certain information from our Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. We intend to provide stockholders with an annual report containing financial information that has been examined and reported upon, with an opinion expressed thereon by our independent registered public accounting firm. On or about April 3, 2013, we expect our Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be available on our website under “Investors—Financial Information—SEC Filings.” Similarly, on the same date, we expect our 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders will be available on our website under “Investors—Financial Information—Annual Reports.”BUSINESS SEGMENTSSubsea TechnologiesSubsea Technologies designs and manufactures products and systems and provides services used by oil and gas companies involved in deepwater exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. The core compentencies of this segment is ourtechnology and engineering expertise. Our production systems control the flow of crude oil and natural gas from producing wells. We specialize in offshore production systems and have manufacturing facilities near the world’s principal offshore oil and gas producing basins. We market our products primarily through our own technical sales organization.Principal Products and ServicesSubsea Systems. Our systems are used in the offshore production of crude oil and natural gas. Subsea systems are placed on the seafloor and are used to control the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the reservoir to a host processing facility, such as a floating production facility, a fixed platform or an onshore facility. Our subsea equipment is controlled by the host processing facility.The design and manufacture of our subsea systems requires a high degree of technical expertise and innovation. Some of our systems are designed to withstand exposure to the extreme hydrostatic pressure that deepwater environments present, as well as internal pressures of up to 15,000 pounds per square inch (“psi”) and temperatures in excess of 350º F. The development of our integrated subsea production systems includes initial engineering design studies and field development planning to consider all relevant aspects and project requirements including optimization of drilling programs and subsea architecture. Our subsea production systems and products include drilling systems, subsea trees, chokes and flow modules, manifold pipeline systems, control and data acquisition systems, well access systems and other electric technology.  Additionally, as part of our technologies to enhance field economics by maximizing recovery, our subsea processing systems can enable cost-effective, platform-less solutions where the field is tied directly back to an existing offshore facility or directly to shore. Subsea processing system solutions include subsea boosting, subsea gas compression and subsea separation which are designed to accelerate production, increase recovery and extend field life. In order to provide these products, systems and services, we utilize engineering, project management, global procurement, manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities.We also provide well access and flow management services and other customer support services that offer a broad range of products and services including installation and workover tools, service technicians for installation assistance and field support for commissioning, intervention, and maintenance of our subsea systems throughout the life of the field. This scope of activity also includes providing tools such as our light well intervention system for certain well workover and intervention tasks. In 2012, FMC Technologies formed a joint venture with Edison Chouest Offshore LLC to provide integrated vessel-based subsea services for offshore oil and gas fields around the world. This joint venture is expected to provide cost-effective solutions to enhance our customer’s ability to initiate, maintain and increase production from subsea field developments through efficient operations, innovative technologies and a broad inventory of vessels and tools.Subsea systems represented approximately 62%, 64% and 66% of our consolidated revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.Schilling Robotics. We design and manufacture ROVs and remote manipulator systems and provide support services for subsea control systems and other high-technology equipment for subsea exploration and production. Our product offering includes electric and hydraulic work-class ROVs, tether-management systems, remote manipulator systems and modular control systems 4Table of Contentsfor wide-ranging subsea applications. We also provide services, such as engineering services, operations and maintenance training, simulation and mission planning, and ROV mobilization support, service and repair and maintenance.Multi Phase Meters. We design and manufacture multiphase and wetgas meters with applications that include production and surface well testing, reservoir monitoring, remote operation, fiscal allocation for the purpose of production and revenue sharing between partners, process monitoring and control, and artificial lift optimization. This technology delivers highly accurate, self-calibrating meters with low maintenance features to meet our customers’ increasing requirements for subsea and topside applications. The Multi Phase Meters product line augments our portfolio of technologies for increasing oil and gas recovery and reservoir optimization.Capital IntensityMany of the systems and products that we supply for subsea applications are highly engineered to meet the unique demands of our customers and are typically ordered one to two years prior to installation. We often receive advance and progress payments from our customers in order to fund initial development and our working capital requirements.Dependence on Key CustomersGenerally, our customers in this segment are major integrated oil companies, national oil companies and independent exploration and production companies.With our integrated systems for subsea production, we have actively pursued alliances with oil and gas companies that are engaged in the subsea development of crude oil and natural gas. Development of subsea fields, particularly in deepwater environments, involves substantial capital investments by our customers. Our customers have sought the security of alliances with us to ensure timely and cost-effective delivery of subsea and other energy-related systems that provide integrated solutions to their needs. Our alliances establish important ongoing relationships with our customers. While our alliances do not contractually commit our customers to purchase our systems and services, they have historically led to, and we expect that they will continue to result in, such purchases. Some examples of customers we have entered into alliances with include Statoil, Shell, BP and Anadarko.The loss of one or more of our significant oil and gas company customers could have a material adverse effect on our Subsea Technologies business segment. In 2012, we generated approximately 10% of our consolidated revenue from Shell.CompetitionSubsea Technologies competes with other companies that supply subsea systems and with smaller companies that are focused on a specific application, technology or geographical niche in which we operate. Companies including Cameron International Corporation, GE Oil & Gas, and Aker Solutions compete with us in the marketplace across our various product lines.Some of the competitive factors include reliability, cost-effective technology, execution and delivery. Our competitive strengths include our intellectual capital, our execution and reliability of our products, experience base and breadth of technologies embedded in our products and services that enable us to design unique solutions for our customers’ project requirements while incorporating standardized components to contain costs. We maintain a presence in all of the world’s major producing basins. Our deepwater expertise, experience and technology help us maintain a leadership position in subsea systems.Surface TechnologiesSurface Technologies designs and manufactures products and systems and provides services used by oil and gas companies involved in land and offshore exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. We also design, manufacture and supply technologically advanced high pressure valves, pumps and fittings used in stimulation activities for oilfield service companies and provide fracturing flowback and wireline services for exploration companies in the oil and gas industry.Principal Products and ServicesSurface Wellhead. We provide a full range of drilling, completion and production systems for both standard service and critical service applications. Surface production systems, or trees, are used to control and regulate the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the well. Our surface products and systems are used worldwide on both land and offshore platforms and can be used in difficult climates, including arctic cold or desert high temperatures. Our product technologies within surface wellhead include conventional wellheads, unihead drill-thru wellheads designed for faster surface installations, drilling time optimization 5Table of Contents(“DTO”) timesaving conventional wellheads designed to reduce overall rig time and other technologies including sealing technology, thermal equipment, and valves and actuators. We support our customers through engineering, manufacturing, field installation support and aftermarket services. In addition, our integrated shale services include hydraulic fracturing manifolds and trees and flow back equipment for timely and cost-effective well completion. Surface wellhead represented approximately 13%, 14% and 15% of our consolidated revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.Fluid Control. We design and manufacture flowline products, under the Weco®/Chiksan® trademarks, well service pumps, compact valves and reciprocating pumps used in well completion and stimulation activities by major oilfield service companies, such as Schlumberger Limited, Baker Hughes Incorporated, Halliburton Company and Weatherford International Ltd. Our flowline products are used in equipment that pumps corrosive and/or erosive fluid into a well during the well construction, hydraulic fracturing or other stimulation processes. Our well service pump product line includes Triplex and Quintuplex pumps utilized in a variety of applications including fracturing, acidizing and matrix stimulation. The performance of this business typically rises and falls with variations in the active rig count throughout the world and pressure pumping activity in the Americas. Fluid control represented approximately 12%, 12% and 9% of our consolidated revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.Completion Services. We provide fracturing flowback services, cased hole electric wireline and slickline services, specialty logging services, pressure transient analysis, and well optimization and swabbing services for exploration companies in the oil and gas industry. Acquired in October 2012 and formerly known as Pure Energy Services Ltd., our completion services business provides fracturing flowback and wireline services. Fracturing flowback services provide our customers the well services necessary for the recovery of solids, fracturing fluids and hydrocarbons from oil and natural gas wells after the stimulation of the well and can involve high pressure or multi-well pad operations. Unlike open-hole wireline services which are only used to evaluate the potential of a newly drilled well, our cased hole wireline services are provided in the initial completion and throughout the life of the well. These services include cement bond logging, perforating and through casing formation evaluation in the initial completion of a well and production logging, production optimization services and ongoing wellbore integrity services throughout the life of the well.Capital IntensitySurface Technologies manufactures most of its products, resulting in a reliance on manufacturing locations throughout the world. We also maintain a large amount of rental equipment related to pressure pumping operations.Dependence on Key CustomersNo single Surface Technologies customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2012, 2011 or 2010 consolidated revenue.CompetitionSurface Technologies currently is a market leader for its primary products and services. Some of the competitive factors include technological innovation, reliability and product quality. Surface Technologies competes with other companies that supply surface production equipment and pressure pumping products. Some of our major competitors include Cameron International Corporation, Weir Oil & Gas, GE Oil & Gas and Gardner Denver, Inc.Energy InfrastructurePrincipal Products and ServicesMeasurement Solutions. We design and manufacture measurement systems for use in custody transfer of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. Our measurement systems provide solutions in energy-related applications such as crude oil and natural gas production and transportation, refined product transportation, petroleum refining, and petroleum marketing and distribution. We combine advanced measurement technology with state-of-the-art electronics and supervisory control systems to provide the measurement of both liquids and gases for purposes of verifying ownership and determining revenue and tax obligations.Loading Systems. We provide land- and marine-based fluid loading and transfer systems to the oil and gas, petrochemical and chemical industries. Our systems are capable of loading and offloading marine vessels transporting a wide range of fluids including crude oil, liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) and refined products. While these systems are typically constructed on a fixed jetty platform, we also have developed advanced loading systems that can be mounted on a vessel or structure to facilitate ship-to-ship or tandem loading and offloading operations in open seas or exposed locations.6Table of ContentsMaterial Handling Solutions. We provide material handling solutions, including bulk conveying systems to the power generation and mining industries. We provide innovative solutions for conveying, feeding, screening and orienting bulk product for customers in diverse industries. Our process, engineering, mechanical design and project management expertise enable us to provide performance optimization solutions for existing systems or newly customized turnkey plants.Blending and Transfer Systems. We provide design, engineering, project management, maintenance and aftermarket services in connection with the application of blending and transfer technology solutions and process automation systems for manufacturers in the lubricant, petroleum, fuel blending, and additive and chemical industries.Separation Systems. We design and manufacture systems that separate production flows from wells into oil, gas, sand and water. Our separation technology improves upon conventional separation technologies by moving the flow in a spiral, spinning motion. This causes the elements of the flow stream to separate more efficiently than conventional separation technologies. These systems are currently capable of subsea and topside applications. For subsea separation, performing a part of the required separation process at the seabed enables our customers to have more effective production and reduces the need for topside processing capacity.Direct Drive Systems (“DDS”). We develop and manufacture high-performance permanent magnet motors and magnetic bearings. We provide machines and systems for a variety of energy-related applications, including integral motors and related system components for compression and pumping for natural gas pipelines, offshore platforms, subsea boosting and subsea water injection and compression. The compact size, efficiency and reliability of our motors make them ideal for these demanding applications.Automation and Control. We provide automation, control and information technology for the oil and gas and other industries. Acquired in April 2012 and formerly known as Control Systems International, Inc., our automation and control business is a supplier of innovative control and automation system solutions through two primary products: (i) UCOS® and (ii) FUEL-FACS+®. UCOS® is a complete software solution that combines distributed control system and supervisory control and data acquisition system retrofits using software solutions and compression control algorithms which allows customers to control and manage the engineering, design and monitoring of their systems of operations. Additionally, FUEL-FACS+® is a terminal automation and information management system that allows customers to monitor and control terminal liquid flows and inventory.Dependence on Key CustomersNo single Energy Infrastructure customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2012, 2011 or 2010 consolidated revenue.OTHER BUSINESS INFORMATION RELEVANT TO OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTSProduct DevelopmentWe continue to invest in product development to advance technologies necessary to meet and support the current and future technical challenges of our customers. New products are developed in order to ensure our ability to tender in upcoming projects and develop growth platforms. We also strive to increase standardization within our product lines in order to reduce delivery times, improve product integrity and control costs. To satisfy all these aims, we are focused on leveraging capabilities and advanced technologies from all of our businesses.In our Subsea Technologies segment, we seek to invest in new technology that will enable the development of challenging fields. We continue to expand the portfolio of solutions in order to deliver a complete production system for high pressure, high temperature (“HPHT”) applications with products that can perform at pressures as high as 15,000 psi and temperatures in excess of 350º F. Key development work was completed in 2012 in the areas of sealing, tooling and insulation. Development efforts are now underway to engineer a portfolio of solutions for 20,000 psi and 400º F applications with key focus on materials testing and seal development.In addition to enabling new developments, we also seek to develop solutions that will help operators maximize recovery from existing subsea fields. In 2012, qualification testing was completed on our Subsea MultiPhase Pump (“MPP”), which was introduced to the market for use in subsea boosting applications. The Subsea MPP combines field-proven pump hydraulics with innovative permanent magnet motors from our direct drive systems business. The Subsea MPP has a unique motor that differentiates it by enabling higher speed, power and efficiency in a more compact footprint compared to traditional induction motors. The subsea pump product line continued to expand as development activities initiated on the six megawatt, 15,000 psi multiphase pump. The six megawatt, 15,000 psi multiphase pump is being developed to meet the needs of a broader customer 7Table of Contentsbase of the boosting market. Another technology that enables increased oil recovery is our Reactive Flex Joint. The Reactive Flex Joint reduces bending and fatigue on permanently installed subsea equipment caused by the riser and other drilling and intervention equipment. This solution can increase production by enabling increased interventions and extended well life. Additionally, the Reactive Flex Joint is expected to provide cost savings through lower rig costs and improved safety. A full scale prototype has been developed and tested.We are also expanding our subsea services portfolio enabling us to provide more services that maximize production and recovery over the life of the field. With three currently in our product offering, a fourth Riserless Light Well Intervention (“RLWI”) system is currently under construction. RLWI is a cost-effective intervention solution designed to perform various types of jobs that will improve and optimize recovery using smaller, purpose-built intervention vessels rather than rigs. Additionally, we have developed a Condition and Performance Monitoring (“CPM”) system that has been deployed in the North Sea.In our Surface Technologies segment, recently acquired capabilities from our acquisition of Pure Energy complemented our strategy to provide products and services to support shale operations. Further complementing these new capabilities, product development efforts in our fluid control business are focused on the engineering of the next generation of flowline equipment including swivels, valves and unions used in pressure pumping applications. These enhancements are expected to provide improved product performance throughout the fracturing operation. Additional investments were directed toward these enhancements, product line expansion and testing of valve technologies used in surface trees.In our Energy Infrastructure segment, we are strongly focused on our developing core technologies. Our separation systems business completed the development of several technologies to further improve separation performance. Development and qualification was completed on a bulk dewaterer, a cyclonic pipe separator designed to take water out of the oil stream which is often encountered in aging fields producing increasing amounts of water. This innovative technology increases throughput through the separator and makes the separation system smaller in size. Additionally, development work was completed on new sand evacuation technologies designed to remove sand from separators and prevent clogging. These technologies provide greater efficiency and better sand removal performance for optimal operation of the separator. Our loading systems business completed additional development work on its targeting system for the footless loading arm for offshore LNG applications known as “OLAF.” This enhancement is expected to further improve performance in dynamic offshore environments. Our measurement solutions business continued enhancement and expansion of its ultrasonic meter product line. These developments are expected to improve product performance and allow the technology to be applied in a greater number of measurement applications throughout the value chain.Order BacklogInformation regarding order backlog is incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled “Inbound Orders and Order Backlog” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Sources and Availability of Raw MaterialsOur business segments purchase carbon steel, stainless steel, aluminum and steel castings and forgings both domestically and internationally. We typically do not use single source suppliers for the majority of our raw material purchases and believe the available supplies of raw materials are adequate to meet our needs.Research and DevelopmentWe are engaged in research and development (“R&D”) activities largely directed toward the improvement of existing products and services, the design of specialized products to meet customer needs and the development of new products, processes and services. A large part of our product development spending has focused on the improved design and standardization of our Subsea Technologies product lines to meet our customer needs. Additional financial information about Company-sponsored R&D activities is incorporated herein by reference from Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.8Table of ContentsPatents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual PropertyWe own a number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and licenses that are cumulatively important to our businesses. As part of our ongoing research and development, we seek patents when appropriate for new products and product improvements. We have approximately 1,060 issued patents and pending patent applications worldwide. Further, we license intellectual property rights to or from third parties. We also own numerous U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names and have approximately 250 registrations and pending applications in the United States and abroad.We protect and promote our intellectual property portfolio and take those actions we deem appropriate to enforce and defend our intellectual property rights. We do not believe, however, that the loss of any one patent, trademark or license, or group of related patents, trademarks or licenses would have a material adverse effect on our overall business.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 18,400 full-time employees, consisting of approximately 6,300 in the United States and 12,100 in non-U.S. locations. Less than 2% of our U.S. employees are represented by labor unions.International Operations in Countries Subject to U.S. RestrictionsCertain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries have engaged in transactions with countries subject to U.S. restrictions; however, the aggregate amount of such sales did not exceed 0.1% of our consolidated annual revenue in 2012. As such, we consider these sales immaterial. Even though our non-U.S. subsidiaries may, under applicable laws and regulations, engage in transactions with various countries, in 2009, like many other companies, we adopted a policy directing our non-U.S. subsidiaries to effectuate an orderly withdrawal from doing business with the various countries subject to U.S. restrictions. This policy prohibited entering into new commitments involving these countries, but did not require the non-U.S. subsidiaries to cease performance of existing commitments, provided such commitments could be performed in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. As a result of this policy decision, non-U.S. subsidiary sales to these countries accounted for less than 0.1% of our consolidated revenue in 2012. While some residual service-related sales may occur after 2012, we expect these to be insignificant since all remaining outstanding commitments have been substantially completed.Financial Information about Geographic AreasThe majority of our consolidated revenue and segment operating profits are generated in markets outside of the United States. Each of our segments’ revenue is dependent upon worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity. Financial information about geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference from Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.9Table of ContentsEXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTPursuant to General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, the information regarding our executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K is hereby included in Part I, Item 1 “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.As of February 22, 2013, the executive officers of FMC Technologies, together with the offices currently held by them, their business experience and their ages, are as follows:Name Age     Current Position and Business ExperienceJohn T. Gremp 61 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (2012)Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (2011)President and Chief Operating Officer (2010)Executive Vice President—Energy Systems (2007)Maryann T. Seaman 50 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2011)Vice President—Treasurer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer (2010)Vice President—Administration (2007)Bradley D. Beitler 59 Vice President—Technology (2009)Director of Technology (2006)Sanjay Bhatia 43 Vice President—Corporate Development (2012)Director of Business Development (2007)Jeffrey W. Carr 56 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (2010)Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (2001)Barry Glickman 44 Vice President—Energy Infrastructure (2011)Integration Leader for GE Oil & Gas/Wood Group (2011)President, Dresser Flow Technologies, a division of Dresser, Inc. (2009)President, Dresser Waukesha, a division of Dresser, Inc. (2008)Tore Halvorsen 58 Senior Vice President—Subsea Technologies (2011)Senior Vice President—Global Subsea Production Systems (2007)Jay A. Nutt 49 Vice President and Controller (2009)Controller (2008)Controller—Energy Systems (2007)Johan Pfeiffer 48 Vice President—Surface Technologies (2011)Vice President—Global Surface Wellhead (2010)General Manager for Subsea activities in Europe, Africa, and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) (2007)Douglas J. Pferdehirt 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (2012)Executive Vice President—Corporate Development & Communication for Schlumberger Limited (2011)President Reservoir Production Group for Schlumberger Limited (2006)Robert L. Potter 62 President (2012)Executive Vice President—Energy Systems (2010)Senior Vice President—Energy Processing and Global Surface Wellhead (2007)Mark J. Scott 59 Vice President—Administration (2010)Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Dresser, Inc. (2004)No family relationships exist among any of the above-listed officers, and there are no arrangements or understandings between any of the above-listed officers and any other person pursuant to which they serve as an officer. During the past five years, none of the above-listed officers has been involved in any legal proceedings as defined in Item 401(f) of Regulation S-K. All officers are elected by the Board of Directors to hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.10Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSImportant risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC.Demand for our systems and services depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas.We are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry, including the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. Any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced pace of discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploitation of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our systems and services and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification or rescheduling of existing orders. These factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which, historically, have been volatile.Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following:•demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions;•costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;•political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest;•available excess production capacity within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries;•oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas;•technological advances affecting energy consumption;•potential acceleration of the development of alternative fuels;•access to capital and credit markets, which may affect our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services; and•natural disasters.The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities arising out of the installation or use of our systems that could adversely affect our financial condition.We are subject to equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, equipment misuse and natural disasters, the occurrence of which may result in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. Although we have obtained insurance against many of these risks, our insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. Further, the insurance may not generally be available in the future or, if available, premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.11Table of ContentsOur operations require us to comply with numerous U.S. and international regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are exposed to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to matters such as environmental, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export control, currency exchange, bribery and corruption and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, frequently change and have tended to become more stringent over time. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Our operations outside of the United States require us to comply with numerous anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations under the laws of the United States and various other countries.  The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) Bribery Act and the China Anti-Unfair Competition Law, among others, apply to us and our operations. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to these regulations. However, our policies, procedures and programs may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents, and severe criminal or civil sanctions may be imposed as a result of violations of these laws. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with applicable laws.Moreover, we import raw materials, semi-finished goods, as well as finished products into many countries for use in such countries or for manufacturing and/or finishing for re-export and import into another country for use or further integration into equipment or systems.  Most movement of raw materials, semi-finished or finished products involves imports and exports.  As a result, compliance with multiple trade sanctions, embargoes and import/export laws and regulations, as well as the recently enacted conflict minerals reporting requirements, pose a constant challenge and risk to us since our business is conducted on a worldwide basis through various subsidiaries.  Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could materially affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.Compliance with environmental regulations may adversely affect our business and operating results.   Environmental laws and regulations affect the equipment, systems and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and anticipate that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. These regulations, as well as the adoption of other laws and regulations affecting exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas, could adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing our costs, limiting the demand for our systems and services or restricting our operations.International, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting emissions commonly referred to as greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions.  For instance, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has made findings that GHG emissions endanger public health and the environment and, based on these findings, has adopted regulations that restrict GHG emissions under existing provisions of the federal U.S. Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction of GHG emissions from motor vehicles and another that requires certain construction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources, including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. These developments may curtail production and demand for oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and could adversely affect future demand for our products and services.  Moreover, environmental concerns have been raised regarding the potential impact of hydraulic fracturing or “fracking” on underground water supplies. We provide equipment and services to companies employing this enhanced recovery technique. There have been several regulatory and governmental initiatives in the United States to restrict the hydraulic fracturing process, which could have an adverse impact on our customers’ completion or production activities. The EPA issued rules on April 17, 2012, which become effective in January 2015, designed to limit the release of volatile organic compounds, or pollutants, from natural gas wells that are hydraulically fractured.  Certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. Hydraulic fracturing restrictions also have been or are being considered for adoption in other countries.  Should additional governmental regulations ultimately be imposed that further restrict or curtail hydraulic fracturing activities, the demand for our equipment and services could be impacted, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.12Table of ContentsDisruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the foreign countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations.We operate manufacturing facilities in 15 countries outside of the United States and approximately 75% of our 2012 revenue was generated internationally. Instability and unforeseen changes in the international markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas such as North Africa, West Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”), could have an adverse effect on the demand for our systems and services, our financial condition or our results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:•nationalization and expropriation;•potentially burdensome taxation;•inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets;•civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, terrorist attacks, cyber-terrorism, military activity and wars;•supply disruptions in key oil producing countries;•ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing;•trade restrictions, trade protection measures or price controls;•foreign ownership restrictions;•import or export licensing requirements;•restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws and regulations;•changes in, and the administration of, laws and regulations;•inability to repatriate income or capital;•reductions in the availability of qualified personnel;•foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; and•fluctuations in the interest rate component of forward foreign currency rates.Because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside of the United States and the amount of our stockholders’ equity. Although it is our policy to seek to minimize our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where appropriate, our efforts may not be successful. To the extent we sell our products and services in foreign markets, currency fluctuations may result in our products and services becoming too expensive for foreign customers. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our financial results.We may lose money on fixed-price contracts.As is customary for the types of businesses in which we operate, we often agree to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for cost overruns. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts may vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. There is inherent risk in the estimation process, including significant unforeseen technical and logistical challenges or longer than expected lead times. A fixed-price contract may prohibit our ability to mitigate the impact of unanticipated increases in raw material prices through increased pricing. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Disruptions in the timely delivery of our backlog could affect our future sales, profitability, and our relationships with our customers.Many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times due to complex technical and logistical requirements.   These contracts may contain penalty clauses relating to on-time delivery, and a failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to contractual penalties, reduce our margins on these contracts or result in damage to existing customer relationships. The ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, subcontractor performance, project engineering expertise, sufficient manufacturing 13Table of Contentsplant capacity and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance.Due to the types of contracts we enter into, the cumulative loss of several major contracts or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We often enter into large, long-term contracts that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. For example, we have an alliance of this type with Shell, from which we generated approximately 10% of our consolidated revenue in 2012. These agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter-term contracts due to the value at risk. If we were to lose several key alliances or agreements over a relatively short period of time we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.A deterioration in future expected profitability or cash flows could result in an impairment of our recorded goodwill.Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently when impairment indicators arise. Reporting units with goodwill are tested for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, or based on management’s judgment, we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. When using the quantitative test, the estimated fair value of each reporting unit is determined using discounted future expected cash flow models which require the use and application of certain estimates, including but not limited to, estimates of future cash flows and the selection of a discount rate. The results of our 2012 goodwill impairments tests indicated there was no impairment of goodwill. A lower fair value estimate in the future for any of our reporting units could result in goodwill impairments. Factors that could trigger a lower fair value estimate include changes in customer demand, cost increases, regulatory or political environment changes, and other changes in market conditions, such as decreased prices in market-based transactions for similar assets, which could impact future earnings of the reporting unit. At December 31, 2012, recorded goodwill of $66.9 million was allocated to our DDS reporting unit. As a result of large investments in research and development and delays in the qualification of products related to bringing certain technologies to market, the financial results of our DDS reporting unit have been negatively impacted. While management is taking steps to improve the financial results of DDS by securing certain technology licensing agreements in response to a maturing market, should these efforts not result in performance improvements, the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment test for DDS would require re-evaluation and could result in an impairment of goodwill for this reporting unit.Increased costs of raw materials and other components may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows.Our results of operations may be adversely affected by our inability to manage the rising costs and availability of raw materials and components used in our wide variety of products and systems. Unexpected changes in the size and timing of regional and/or product markets, particularly for short lead-time products, could affect our results of operations or cash flows.Our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees.We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of any of these officers or key management could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. In addition, competition for qualified employees among companies, like ours, that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense. The loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products and services.A failure of our information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our business and results of operations.The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology (“IT”) systems. Accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, incursions by intruders or hackers, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, cyber terrorists and other similar disruptions. The failure of our IT systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, increased overhead 14Table of Contentscosts and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.Our success depends on our ability to implement new technologies and services.Our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs and improvements and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. If we are not able to obtain patent or other protection of our technology, we may not be able to continue to develop systems, services and technologies to meet evolving industry requirements, and if so, at prices acceptable to our customers.Some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that may be able to devote greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources to the research and development of new systems, services and technologies than we are able to do. If we are unable to compete effectively given these risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Uninsured claims and litigation against us, including intellectual property litigation, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation, as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available. However, no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. Our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance.In addition, the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs.A downgrade in the rating of our debt could restrict our ability to access the capital markets.Changes in the ratings assigned to our debt may impact our access to the debt capital markets. If ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets could become restricted. Moreover, our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. An increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.ITEM 1B