Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law.3PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESSOVERVIEWFMC Technologies, Inc. is a global provider of technology solutions for the energy industry. FMC Technologies, Inc. was incorporated in November 2000 under Delaware law and was a wholly-owned subsidiary of FMC Corporation until our initial public offering in June 2001. Our principal executive offices are located at 5875 North Sam Houston Parkway West, Houston, Texas 77086. As used in this report, except where otherwise stated or indicated by the context, all references to the “Company,” “FMC Technologies,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are to FMC Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.We design, manufacture and service technologically sophisticated systems and products, including subsea production and processing systems, surface wellhead production systems, high pressure fluid control equipment, measurement solutions and marine loading systems for the energy industry. We report our results of operations in the following reporting segments: Subsea Technologies, Surface Technologies and Energy Infrastructure. Financial information about our business segments is incorporated herein by reference from Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.During 2012, we acquired the remaining 55% of Schilling Robotics, LLC (“Schilling Robotics”), 100% of Pure Energy Services Ltd. (“Pure Energy”) and 100% of Control Systems International, Inc. (“CSI”). Schilling Robotics is a supplier of advanced robotic intervention products, including a line of remotely operating vehicle systems (“ROV”), manipulator systems and subsea control systems and is included in our Subsea Technologies segment. Prior to 2012 we owned 45% of Schilling Robotics. The acquisition of the remaining 55% has enabled us to grow in the subsea market environment, where demand for ROVs and the need for maintenance activities of subsea equipment exists. Additionally, we acquired Pure Energy, a provider of flowback services and wireline services. The acquisition of Pure Energy complements the existing products and services of our Surface Technologies segment and creates client value by providing an integrated well site solution. Finally, we acquired CSI, a provider of automation, control and information technology to the oil and gas industry. Included in our Energy Infrastructure segment, CSI enhances our automation and controls technologies and benefits technologies to support our long-term strategy to expand our subsea production and processing systems.Also in 2012, we formed FMC Technologies Offshore, LLC (“FTO Services”), a 50/50 joint venture with Edison Chouest Offshore LLC. Utilizing the subsea technologies, tooling and expertise of FMC Technologies, and the vessel, port logistics and ROV operations of Edison Chouest Offshore, the joint venture was formed to provide integrated vessel-based subsea services for offshore oil and gas fields around the world. The objective of the joint venture is to provide cost-effective solutions to enhance our customers’ ability to initiate, maintain and increase production from subsea field developments. Additional information regarding this joint venture is incorporated herein by reference from Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.During 2014, we completed the sale of our equity interests and assets primarily representing a product line of our material handling business to Syntron Material Handling, LLC, an affiliate of Levine Leichtman Capital Partners Private Capital Solutions II, L.P. Additional financial information is incorporated herein by reference from Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.During 2015, we signed an agreement with Technip S.A. (“Technip”) to form Forsys Subsea Limited (“Forsys Subsea”), a 50/50 joint venture. Forsys Subsea brings the proprietary technologies of FMC Technologies and Technip together to offer front-end engineering and design services aimed to identify opportunities through new technologies, services, and standardization of equipment to significantly reduce the cost of subsea field development and provide the technology to maximize well performance over the life of the field. In conjunction with the formation of Forsys Subsea, the agreement also formed an alliance with Technip that enables us to create the framework to deliver and install seabed and/or topside subsea infrastructure resulting from designs produced by Forsys Subsea. Additional financial information is incorporated herein by reference from Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.4Also in 2015, we largely completed integration efforts in our Surface Technologies segment. These integration efforts, primarily in North America, bring together the services acquired from Pure Energy and our surface wellhead business to create an integrated shale offering. The integration efforts have the strategic aim (i) to improve our customers’ returns by offering integrated solutions involving multiple surface products and services, (ii) to enable execution excellence through specialization and focus, (iii) to improve scalability and (iv) to increase market share in the North American shale market. Our integration efforts of our Surface Technologies products and services resulted in Surface Technologies now being organized and operated under the three businesses of surface integrated services, surface wellhead international, and fluid control.Website Access to Reports and Proxy Statement. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports, are available free of charge through our website at www.fmctechnologies.com, under “Investors—Financial Information—SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Alternatively, our reports may be accessed through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Unless expressly noted, the information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other filing we make with the SEC.5BUSINESS SEGMENTSSubsea TechnologiesSubsea Technologies designs and manufactures products and systems and provides services used by oil and gas companies involved in deepwater exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. The core competencies of this segment are ourtechnology and engineering expertise. Our systems control the flow of crude oil and natural gas from producing wells. We specialize in offshore production systems and have manufacturing facilities near the world’s principal offshore oil and gas producing basins. We primarily market our products through our own technical sales organization.Principal Products and ServicesSubsea Systems. Our systems are used in the offshore production of crude oil and natural gas. Subsea systems are placed on the seafloor and are used to control the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the reservoir to a host processing facility, such as a floating production facility, a fixed platform or an onshore facility.The design and manufacture of our subsea systems requires a high degree of technical expertise and innovation. Some of our systems are designed to withstand exposure to the extreme hydrostatic pressure that deepwater environments present, as well as internal pressures of up to 15,000 pounds per square inch (“psi”) and temperatures in excess of 350º F. The development of our integrated subsea production systems includes initial engineering design studies and field development planning to consider all relevant aspects and project requirements including optimization of drilling programs and subsea architecture. Our subsea production systems and products include drilling systems, subsea trees, chokes and flow modules, manifold pipeline systems, control and data management systems, well access systems and other technologies. Additionally, as part of our technologies to enhance field economics by maximizing recovery, our subsea processing systems can enable cost-effective, platform-less solutions where the field is tied directly back to an existing offshore facility or directly to shore. Subsea processing system solutions include subsea boosting, subsea gas compression and subsea separation which are designed to accelerate production, increase recovery or extend field life. In order to provide these products, systems and services, we utilize engineering, project management, procurement, manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities.We also provide an array of subsea services aimed to improve uptime, lower lifecycle costs and increase recovery over the life of the field. These services include (i) installation services to plan and direct the technical onshore and offshore activities, resources and operations required in an installation, (ii) asset management services such as tool management, equipment refurbishment, condition and performance monitoring, processing equipment-related maintenance and rental tools, (iii) product optimization using a suite of services including flow assurance services, real-time surveillance, predictive analytics and flow modeling software, (iv) inspection, maintenance and repair of control and instrumentation modules, chokes, flow modules, and processing equipment, and (v) well access and intervention services including exploration wellheads, production and completion related services, rig-based intervention, riserless light well intervention through our FTO Services joint venture, tree commissioning, through tubing rotary drilling and plug and abandonment. Additionally, Forsys Subsea, our joint venture with Technip, offers front-end engineering and design to identify opportunities through new technologies, services, and standardization of equipment to significantly reduce the cost of subsea field development and provide the technology to maximize well performance over the life of the field.Subsea systems represented approximately 69%, 63% and 63% of our consolidated revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.Schilling Robotics. We design and manufacture ROVs and manipulator arms and provide support services for subsea control systems for subsea exploration and production. Our product offering includes electric and hydraulic work-class ROVs, tether-management systems, launch and recovery systems, remote manipulator arms and modular control systems for wide-ranging subsea applications. We also provide support and services such as product training, pilot simulator training, spare parts, and technical assistance.6Multi Phase Meters. We design and manufacture multiphase and wetgas meters to measure production rates of oil, water and gas for both topside and subsea applications. These meters have diverse applications that include production testing of well fluid rates, reservoir monitoring, measurement of fluid rates for production and revenue sharing between partners, and artificial lift optimization. The Multi Phase Meters product line augments our portfolio of technologies for increasing oil and gas recovery, early water detection, accurate fiscal allocation and reservoir optimization.Capital IntensityMany of the systems and products we supply for subsea applications are highly engineered to meet the unique demands of our customers’ field properties and are typically ordered one to two years prior to installation. We often receive advance payments and progress billings from our customers in order to fund initial development and our working capital requirements. However, our working capital balances can vary significantly depending on the payment terms and execution timing on key contracts.Dependence on Key CustomersGenerally, our customers in this segment are major integrated oil companies, national oil companies and independent exploration and production companies.We actively pursue alliances with oil and gas companies that are engaged in the subsea development of crude oil and natural gas to promote our integrated systems for subsea production. Development of subsea fields, particularly in deepwater environments, involves substantial capital investments by our customers. Our customers have sought the security of alliances with us to ensure timely and cost-effective delivery of subsea and other energy-related systems that provide integrated solutions to meet their needs. Our alliances establish important ongoing relationships with our customers. While our alliances do not contractually commit our customers to purchase our systems and services, they have historically led to, and we expect that they would continue to result in, such purchases. Examples of customers we have entered alliances with include Statoil, Shell, BP and Anadarko.Petrobras is a key customer for the Subsea Technologies segment. Given the current recessionary economy in Brazil and the low crude oil price environment, our operational performance may be negatively affected by any significant changes in Petrobras’ operations, such as further decreases in their capital spending plans. As part of enhancing our customer relationship, we are working with Petrobras to delay certain deliveries of product which may affect the timing of our results of operations or cash flows.The loss of one or more of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our Subsea Technologies segment. No single Subsea Technologies customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2015 consolidated revenue.CompetitionSubsea Technologies competes with companies that supply subsea systems and with other smaller companies that are focused on a specific application, technology or geographical niche in which we operate. Companies including OneSubsea (a Cameron and Schlumberger company), GE Oil & Gas (a division of General Electric Company), Aker Solutions ASA and Dril-Quip, Inc. compete with us in the marketplace across our various Subsea Technologies product and services.Competitive factors in our industry include price, the quality of both product technology and service, and on-time delivery. Our competitive strengths include our intellectual capital, the reliability of our products, the breadth of technologies embedded in our products and services that enable us to design unique solutions for our customers’ project requirements while incorporating standardized components to contain costs and our worldwide presence and reputation in each of the major producing basins around the world. Our strong customer relationships, experience and technology help us maintain a leadership position in the subsea systems market.SeasonalityIn the North Sea, winter weather generally subdues drilling activity and demand for subsea services as certain activities cannot be performed. As a result, the level of offshore activity in our subsea services is negatively influenced and tends to decrease in the first quarter of each year.7Surface TechnologiesSurface Technologies designs and manufactures products and systems and provides services used by oil and gas companies involved in land and offshore exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. We design, manufacture and supply technologically advanced wellhead systems and high pressure valves and pumps used in stimulation activities for oilfield service companies and provide flowback and wireline services for exploration and production companies in the oil and gas industry.Principal Products and ServicesSurface Integrated Services and Surface Wellhead International. We provide a full range of drilling, completion and production wellhead systems for both standard and custom-engineered applications. Surface wellhead production systems, or trees, are used to control and regulate the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the well. Our surface wellhead products and systems are used worldwide on both onshore and offshore applications and can be used in difficult climates, including arctic cold or desert high temperatures. Our product technologies include conventional wellheads, unihead drill-thru wellheads designed for faster surface installations, drilling time optimization (“DTO”) timesaving conventional wellheads designed to reduce overall rig time and other technologies including sealing technology, thermal equipment, and valves and actuators. We support our customers through comprehensive surface wellhead system service packages that provide strategic solutions to ensure optimal equipment performance and reliability and include all phases of the asset’s life cycle, from the early planning stages through testing and installation, commissioning and operations, replacement and upgrades, interventions, decommissioning/abandonment, and maintenance, storage and preservations.As part of our surface integrated services business, we provide an integrated shale offering which includes manifolds and trees and flowback equipment for timely and cost-effective well completion. Acquired in October 2012 and formerly known as Pure Energy Services Ltd., we also provide flowback services for the recovery of solids, fluids, and hydrocarbons from oil and natural gas wells after the stimulation of the well, cased hole electric wireline and slickline services, specialty logging services, and well optimization services for exploration companies in the oil and gas industry.Fluid Control. We design and manufacture flowline products, under the Weco®/Chiksan® trademarks, articulating frac arm manifold trailers, well service pumps, compact valves and reciprocating pumps used in well completion and stimulation activities by major oilfield service companies, such as Schlumberger Limited, Baker Hughes Incorporated, Halliburton Company and Weatherford International plc. Our flowline products are used in equipment that pumps fluid into a well during the well construction and stimulation processes. Our well service pump product line includes Triplex and Quintuplex pumps utilized in a variety of applications including fracturing, acidizing and matrix stimulation and are capable of delivering flow rates up to 35 barrels per minute at pressures up to 20,000 psi. The performance of this business typically rises and falls with variations in the active rig count throughout the world and pressure pumping activity in the Americas.Capital IntensitySurface Technologies manufactures most of its products, resulting in a reliance on manufacturing locations throughout the world. We also maintain a large amount of rental equipment related to pressure pumping operations.Dependence on Key CustomersNo single Surface Technologies customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2015 consolidated revenue.CompetitionSurface Technologies is a market leader for its primary products and services. Some of the competitive factors include technological innovation, reliability and product quality. Surface Technologies competes with other companies that supply surface production equipment and pressure pumping products. Some of our major competitors include Cameron International Corporation, Weir Oil & Gas (a division of The Weir Group PLC), GE Oil & Gas (a division of General Electric Company) and Gardner Denver, Inc.8SeasonalityIn western Canada, the level of activity in the oilfield services industry is influenced by seasonal weather patterns. During the spring months, wet weather and the spring thaw make the ground unstable and less capable of supporting heavy equipment and machinery. As a result, municipalities and provincial transportation departments enforce road bans that restrict the movement of heavy equipment during the spring months, which reduces activity levels. There is greater demand for oilfield services, specifically completion services, provided by our Canadian surface integrated services business in the winter season when freezing permits the movement and operation of heavy equipment. Activities tend to increase in the fall and peak in the winter months of November through March.9Energy InfrastructurePrincipal Products and ServicesMeasurement Solutions. We design, manufacture and service measurement products for the worldwide oil and gas industry. Our flow computers and control systems manage and monitor liquid and gas measurement for applications such as custody transfer, fiscal measurement and batch loading and deliveries. Our floating production, storage and off-loading metering systems provide the precision and reliability required for measuring large flow rates characteristic of marine loading operations. Our gas and liquid measurement systems provide many solutions in energy-related applications such as crude oil and natural gas production and transportation, refined product transportation, petroleum refining, and petroleum marketing and distribution. We combine advanced measurement technology with state-of-the-art electronics and supervisory control systems to provide the measurement of both liquids and gases to ensure processes operate efficiently while reducing operating costs and minimizing the risk associated with custody transfer. As part of our liquid measurement system offering, we also provide design, engineering, project management, training, commissioning and aftermarket services in connection with the applications of blending and transfer technology solutions and process automation systems for manufacturers in the lubricant, petroleum, fuel blending, and additive and chemical industries.We also provide automation and control technology for the oil and gas, chemical and other industries. Acquired in April 2012 and formerly known as Control Systems International, Inc., our automation and control technology supplies innovative control and automation system solutions. One of the primary products, UCOS®, is a comprehensive software solution that combines distributed control system and supervisory control and data acquisition system retrofits using software solutions and compression control algorithms which allows customers to control and manage the engineering, design and monitoring of their systems of operations.Loading Systems. We provide land- and marine-based loading and transfer systems to the oil and gas, petrochemical and chemical industries. Our systems provide transfer loading solutions using Chiksan® loading arms and Chiksan® swivel joint technologies capable of diverse applications. While our marine systems are typically constructed on a fixed jetty platform, we have developed advanced loading systems that can be mounted on a vessel or structure to facilitate ship-to-ship and tandem loading and offloading operations in open seas or exposed locations. Both our land- and marine-based loading and transfer systems are capable of handling a wide range of products including petroleum products, liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) and chemical products.Separation Systems. We design and manufacture systems that separate production flows from wells into oil, gas, sand and water. Our separation technology can be applied to both greenfield development as well as retrofit solutions for fields currently in production. Also, these systems provide solutions for both subsea and topside applications. For subsea applications, these systems can be designed with primary separation at the seabed which enables more effective production, increased field recovery and the reduced need for topside processing capacity for our customers.Dependence on Key CustomersNo single Energy Infrastructure customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2015 consolidated revenue.10OTHER BUSINESS INFORMATION RELEVANT TO OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTSProduct DevelopmentWe invest in product development to advance technologies necessary to support the current and future technical challenges of our customers. We seek to develop products and services aimed to assist our customers to lower capital and operating expenditures, increase oil recovery and deliver improved performance of their assets. We also strive to increase standardization within our product lines in order to reduce delivery times, improve product integrity and control costs. To satisfy all these aims, our investments in product development are focused on (i) progressing capabilities to bring products to market faster and more efficiently, (ii) developing the next generation of cost-effective production and processing equipment, (iii) advancing core enabling technologies and materials and (iv) expanding product families to address broader market applications.To accelerate the commercialization of technologies in all of our businesses, we made several investments to enhance our research and development capabilities. First, we expanded our network of rapid prototyping centers, increasing the resources available for our engineers to design and build new products. Second, we upgraded and expanded our capabilities to conduct qualification testing. These investments included the addition of test cells, flow loops, bending fixtures and test pits along with advanced instrumentation to better facilitate monitoring of test programs. Our investments added capacity and provided new functionality to accommodate a broader range of test parameters including high pressure, high temperature (“HPHT”) conditions.Subsea Technologies. We continue to expand our subsea technologies portfolio of solutions in order to deliver a complete production system for HPHT applications. In 2014, we entered into a joint development agreement with several major operators to develop common standards for subsea production equipment capable of operating at pressures as high as 20,000 psi and temperatures up to 350º F. In 2015, we added another major operator to this joint agreement. We believe standardization of our products is an important element in improving execution, optimizing resources, lowering lifecycle costs and providing superior long-term value. This joint development agreement is expected to result in standardized design, materials, processes and interfaces to deliver improved reliability and operability over the life of the field. During 2015, we completed major qualification testing meeting the latest industry guidelines.The downturn in the energy market has shifted the needs of our customers. As a result, we have also invested in subsea product development focused on developing lower cost solutions. Technology development progressed on the next generation of subsea equipment utilizing designs that will be significantly smaller and lighter than current designs. In addition to the investments to develop lower cost production solutions, we continued efforts on our portfolio of product technology and services aimed to help operators maximize recovery from existing subsea fields. Along with our development partner Sulzer Pumps Ltd., we expanded the product family of pumps and motors to include more sizes and pressure ratings. Additionally, development of our well access management system was completed in 2015, and the system was successfully employed in the North Sea. This combined subsea product and service solution provided real-time data to the operator to enable the assessment of actual loading on a subsea completion riser during operations, leading to reduced operational and maintenance costs and increased oil recovery.Surface Technologies. Development work focused on enhancing several core enabling technologies including seals, valves and instrumentation. During 2015, we completed development on a steam valve for high temperature service. The valve was successfully qualified and installed on an onshore field in North America. Additionally, we completed development on the next generation of sealing technology featuring a dual metal packoff. Developed in collaboration with one of our key customers, the new design of the sealing technology eliminates elastomers and improves seal performance. Other investments in our surface technologies portfolio included the development and testing of sensing and instrumentation technologies and of technologies for the treatment of well fluids.Energy Infrastructure. Our measurement solutions business completed development of AccuLoad IV, the newest generation electronic preset system. This new generation includes important upgrades and enhancements such as improved diagnostics that will ensure AccuLoad® remains a widely used preset in oil custody transfer. Our loading systems business completed extended fatigue and operating simulation testing on ATOL, our tandem offshore loading solution.11Order BacklogInformation regarding order backlog is incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled “Inbound Orders and Order Backlog” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Sources and Availability of Raw MaterialsOur business segments purchase carbon steel, stainless steel, aluminum and steel castings and forgings both domestically and internationally. We typically do not use single source suppliers for the majority of our raw material purchases; however, certain geographic areas of our businesses or a project or group of projects may heavily depend on certain suppliers for raw materials or supply of semi-finished goods. We believe the available supplies of raw materials are adequate to meet our needs.Research and DevelopmentWe are engaged in research and development (“R&D”) activities directed toward the improvement of existing products and services, the design of specialized products to meet customer needs and the development of new products, processes and services. A large part of our product development spending has focused on the improved design and standardization of our Subsea Technologies products to meet our customer needs. Financial information about R&D activities is incorporated herein by reference from Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual PropertyWe own a number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and licenses that are cumulatively important to our businesses. As part of our ongoing research and development, we seek patents when appropriate for new products and product improvements. We have approximately 1,530 issued patents and pending patent applications worldwide. Further, we license intellectual property rights to or from third parties. We also own numerous U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names and have approximately 155 registrations and pending applications in the United States and abroad.We protect and promote our intellectual property portfolio and take actions we deem appropriate to enforce and defend our intellectual property rights. We do not believe, however, that the loss of any one patent, trademark or license, or group of related patents, trademarks or licenses would have a material adverse effect on our overall business.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 17,400 full-time employees, consisting of approximately 5,700 in the United States and 11,700 in non-U.S. locations. Less than 2% of our U.S. employees are represented by labor unions.The Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012The Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 amended Section 13 of the Exchange Act and requires disclosure when a company knowingly engages in specified prohibited activities involving Iran. We had no such activities to report during the year ended December 31, 2015.Segment and Geographic Financial InformationThe majority of our consolidated revenue and segment operating profits are generated in markets outside of the United States. Each segments’ revenue is dependent upon worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity. Financial information about our segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference from Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.12EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTInformation regarding our executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K is hereby included in Part I, Item 1 “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.As of February 24, 2016, the executive officers of FMC Technologies, together with the offices held by them, their business experience and their ages, are as follows:Name Age     Current Position and Business ExperienceJohn T. Gremp 64 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (2015)Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (2013)Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (2012)Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (2011)Maryann T. Mannen 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2014)Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2011)Richard G. Alabaster 55 Vice President—Surface Technologies (2015)General Manager—Surface Integrated Services (2013)General Manager—Fluid Control (2010)Bradley D. Beitler 62 Vice President—Technology (2009)Sanjay Bhatia 46 Vice President—Corporate Development (2012)Director of Business Development (2007)Barry Glickman 47 Vice President—Subsea Services (2015)General Manager—Subsea Systems Western Region (2012)Vice President—Energy Infrastructure (2011)Integration Leader for GE Oil & Gas/Wood Group (2011)Tore Halvorsen 61 Senior Vice President—Subsea Technologies (2011)Jay A. Nutt 52 Vice President—Controller and Treasurer (2015)Vice President and Controller (2009)Douglas J. Pferdehirt 52 President and Chief Operating Officer (2015)Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (2012)Executive Vice President—Corporate Development & Communication for Schlumberger Limited (2011)Dianne B. Ralston 49 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary (2015)Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary for Weatherford International plc (2014)Deputy General Counsel—Corporate for Schlumberger Limited (2012)Deputy General Counsel— Government Affairs, Litigation, and IP Enforcement for Schlumberger Limited (2010)Mark J. Scott 62 Vice President—Administration (2010)No family relationships exist among any of the above-listed officers, and there are no arrangements or understandings between any of the above-listed officers and any other person pursuant to which they serve as an officer. During the past ten years, none of the above-listed officers was involved in any legal proceedings as defined in Item 401(f) of Regulation S-K. All officers are elected by the Board of Directors to hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.13ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSImportant risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC.Demand for our products and services depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas.We are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry, including the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. Any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced pace of discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploitation of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our products and services and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification or rescheduling of existing orders in our backlog. These factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which, historically, have been volatile.Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following:•demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions;•costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;•political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest;•available excess production capacity within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries;•oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas;•technological advances affecting energy consumption;•potential acceleration of the development of alternative fuels;•access to capital and credit markets, which may affect our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services; and•natural disasters.The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. The current downturn in the oil and gas industry has resulted in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities arising out of the installation or use of our products that could adversely affect our financial condition.We are subject to potential liabilities arising from equipment malfunctions and failures, particularly due to high temperature and pressure environments, equipment misuse and natural disasters, the occurrence of which may result in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. Although we have obtained insurance against many of these risks, our insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. Further, the insurance may not generally be available in the future or, if available, premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, such potential liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.14Our operations require us to comply with numerous U.S. and international regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We are exposed to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to matters such as environmental, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export control, currency exchange, bribery and corruption and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, frequently change and have tended to become more stringent over time. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Our operations outside of the United States require us to comply with numerous anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations under the laws of the United States and various other countries. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) Bribery Act and the Brazilian Anti-Bribery Act (also known as the Brazilian Clean Company Act), among others, apply to us and our operations. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to these regulations. However, our policies, procedures and programs may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents, and severe criminal or civil sanctions may be imposed as a result of violations of these laws. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with applicable laws.Moreover, we import raw materials, semi-finished goods, as well as finished products into many countries for use in such countries or for manufacturing and/or finishing for re-export and import into another country for use or further integration into equipment or systems. Most movement of raw materials, semi-finished or finished products involves imports and exports.  As a result, compliance with multiple trade sanctions, embargoes and import/export laws and regulations, as well as the recently enacted conflict minerals reporting requirements, pose a constant challenge and risk to us since our business is conducted on a worldwide basis through various subsidiaries. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could materially affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations.Environmental laws and regulations in the United States and foreign countries affect the equipment, systems and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and believe that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, or the issuance of orders enjoining operations. These laws and regulations, as well as the adoption of new legal requirements or other laws and regulations affecting exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas, could adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing our costs, limiting the demand for our products and services or restricting our operations.International, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and/or promulgating legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting emissions commonly referred to as greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. For instance, under the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has made findings that GHG emissions endanger public health and the environment, resulting in the EPA’s adoption of regulations requiring construction and operating permit reviews of certain stationary sources with major emissions of GHGs, which reviews require the installation of new GHG emission control technologies. The EPA has also promulgated rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources, including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. In addition, in August 2015, the EPA announced proposed rules that would establish new air emission controls for methane emissions from certain new, modified or reconstructed equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities, as part of an overall effort to reduce methane emissions by up to 45 percent by 2025. To the extent our customers are subject to these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, the additional costs incurred by our customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at current or anticipated levels, which would negatively impact their demand for our products and services. In addition, any new laws or regulations establishing cap-and-trade or that favor the increased use of non-fossil fuels may dampen demand for oil and gas production and lead to lower spending by our customers for our products and services. Similarly, to the extent we are or become subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we expect that our efforts to monitor, report and comply with such laws and regulations, and any related taxes imposed on companies by such programs, will increase our cost of doing business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.15Moreover, environmental concerns have been raised regarding the potential impact of hydraulic fracturing on underground water supplies. Although we do not perform hydraulic fracturing, we do provide equipment and services to companies employing this enhanced recovery technique. There have been several regulatory and governmental initiatives in the United States to restrict the hydraulic fracturing process, which could have an adverse impact on our customers’ completion or production activities. For example, the EPA has issued final regulations under the U.S. Clean Air Act governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing and proposed in April 2015 the prohibition of the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. Also, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management finalized rules in March 2015 that impose new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands. The U.S. District Court of Wyoming has temporarily stayed implementation of this rule, and a final decision has not yet been issued. These and other similar state and foreign regulatory initiatives, if adopted, would establish additional levels of regulation for our customers that could make it more difficult for our customers to complete natural gas and oil wells and could adversely affect the demand for our equipment and services, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations.We operate manufacturing facilities in the United States and in various countries across the world. Instability and unforeseen changes in any of the markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas such as North Africa, West Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States, could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and services, our financial condition or our results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:•nationalization and expropriation;•potentially burdensome taxation;•inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets;•civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, terrorist attacks, cyber-terrorism, military activity and wars;•supply disruptions in key oil producing countries;•ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing;•trade restrictions, trade protection measures or price controls;•foreign ownership restrictions;•import or export licensing requirements;•restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws and regulations;•changes in, and the administration of, laws and regulations;•inability to repatriate income or capital;•reductions in the availability of qualified personnel;•foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; and•fluctuations in the interest rate component of forward foreign currency rates.Because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of our assets and liabilities located outside of the United States and the amount of our stockholders’ equity. Although it is our policy to seek to minimize our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where appropriate, our efforts may not be successful. Moreover, certain currencies, specifically currencies in countries such as Angola and Nigeria where we have sizable operations, do not actively trade in the global foreign exchange markets and may subject us to increased foreign currency exposures. Refer to “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of foreign currency rate risk. To the extent we sell our products and services in foreign markets, currency fluctuations may result in our products and services becoming too expensive for foreign customers. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our financial position or results of operations.16We may lose money on fixed-price contracts.As customary for the types of businesses in which we operate, we often agree to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for cost overruns. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts may vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. There is inherent risk in the estimation process, including significant unforeseen technical and logistical challenges or longer than expected lead times. A fixed-price contract may prohibit our ability to mitigate the impact of unanticipated increases in raw material prices through increased pricing. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Disruptions in the timely delivery of our backlog could affect our future sales, profitability, and our relationships with our customers.Many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times due to complex technical and logistical requirements. These contracts may contain clauses related to liquidated damages or financial incentives regarding on-time delivery, and a failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to liquidated damages or loss of financial incentives, reduce our margins on these contracts or result in damage to existing customer relationships. The ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, subcontractor performance, project engineering expertise and execution, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance, particularly in light of the current industry environment where customers may seek to improve their returns or cash flows.Due to the types of contracts we enter into, the cumulative loss of several major contracts or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We often enter into large, long-term contracts that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. These agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter-term contracts due to the value at risk. If we were to lose several key alliances or agreements over a relatively short period of time we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Increased costs of raw materials and other components may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows.Our results of operations may be adversely affected by our inability to manage the rising costs and availability of raw materials and components used in our wide variety of products and systems. Unexpected changes in the size and timing of regional and/or product markets, particularly for short lead-time products, could affect our results of operations or cash flows.In accordance with Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC’s rules regarding mandatory disclosure and reporting requirements by public companies of their use of “conflict minerals” (tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries became effective in 2014. While the conflict minerals rule continues in effect as adopted, there remains uncertainty regarding how the conflict minerals rule, and our compliance obligations, will be affected in the future. Additional requirements under the rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain of the conflict minerals used in the manufacture of our products or in the provision of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to purchase these products in the future. The costs of compliance, including those related to supply chain research, the limited number of suppliers and possible changes in the sourcing of these minerals, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.17A failure of our information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our business and results of operations.The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology (“IT”) systems. Accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, incursions by intruders or hackers, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, cyber terrorists and other similar disruptions. Additionally, we rely on third parties to support the operation of our IT hardware and software infrastructure, and in certain instances, utilize web-based applications. Although no such material incidents have occurred to date, the failure of our IT systems or those of our vendors to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, inappropriate disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, reputational harm, increased overhead costs and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.Our success depends on our ability to implement new technologies and services.Our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs and improvements and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. If we are not able to obtain patent or other protection of our technology, we may not be able to continue to develop systems, services and technologies to meet evolving industry requirements, and if so, at prices acceptable to our customers.Uninsured claims and litigation against us, including intellectual property litigation, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation, as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available. However, no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. Our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance.In addition, the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs.A deterioration in future expected profitability or cash flows could result in an impairment of our recorded goodwill.Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently when impairment indicators arise. A lower fair value estimate in the future for any of our reporting units could result in goodwill impairments. Factors that could trigger a lower fair value estimate include changes in customer demand, cost increases, regulatory or political environment changes, and other changes in market conditions, such as decreased prices in similar market-based transactions, which could impact future earnings of the reporting unit.At December 31, 2015, recorded goodwill of $63.7 million was associated with our U.S. surface integrated services reporting unit. The decline in crude oil prices that began in 2014 and continued throughout 2015 has introduced uncertainty associated with certain key assumptions used in estimating fair value of the reporting unit. Depressed crude oil and natural gas prices for a prolonged period of time may adversely affect the economics of our customers’ projects, particularly shale-related projects in North America, which may lead to the reduction in demand for our products and services, negatively impacting the financial results of the reporting unit. Our estimate of fair value for the U.S. surface integrated services reporting unit relies on third party forecasts of the number of hydraulic fracturing stages expected to be completed as well as the expected recovery of the overall North American oil and gas market. Management is monitoring the overall market, specifically crude oil and natural gas prices, and its effect on the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment test for U.S. surface integrated services, which may require re-evaluation and could result in an impairment of goodwill for this reporting unit.18At December 31, 2015, recorded goodwill of $54.7 million was associated with our separation systems reporting unit. The decline in crude oil prices and its related effect on customer capital spending has led to negative margins for separation systems in 2015. Our estimate of fair value for the separation systems reporting unit relies on assumptions of lower oil and gas activity over the next few years with expected market recovery in 2019 for this business. To mitigate the impact of lower commodity prices, management is expanding the reporting unit’s existing product offering in both greenfield and brownfield applications by introducing differentiating technology and expanding the system and solutions business as a growth platform. Management is monitoring the overall market, specifically crude oil prices and changes in customer capital spending, and its effect on the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment test for separation systems, which may require re-evaluation and could result in an impairment of goodwill for this reporting unit.Refer to “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion regarding estimates and assumptions surrounding goodwill.A downgrade in our debt rating could restrict our ability to access the capital markets.The terms of our financing are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, capital structure, planned asset purchases or sales, near- and long-term production growth opportunities, market position, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix, customer and geographic diversification and commodity price levels. A downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly to non-investment grade levels, could limit our ability to access the debt capital markets, refinance our existing debt or cause us to refinance or issue debt with less favorable terms and conditions. Moreover, our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. An increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.Our industry is undergoing consolidation that may impact our results of operations.Our industry, including our customers and competitors, is undergoing consolidation which may affect demand for our products and services as a result of price concessions or decreased customer capital spending. This consolidation activity could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations in the industry may have on prices, capital spending by our customers, our selling strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers.Our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees.We depend on key personnel. The loss of any key personnel could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. The loss of qualified employees or an inability to retain and motivate additional highly-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to successfully conduct research activities and develop marketable products and services.ITEM 1B