Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and factors that are unknown or unpredictable. We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law.3PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESSOVERVIEWFMC Technologies, Inc. is a global provider of technology solutions for the energy industry. FMC Technologies, Inc. was incorporated in November 2000 under Delaware law and was a wholly-owned subsidiary of FMC Corporation until our initial public offering in June 2001. Our principal executive offices are located at 5875 North Sam Houston Parkway West, Houston, Texas 77086. As used in this report, except where otherwise stated or indicated by the context, all references to the “Company,” “FMC Technologies,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are to FMC Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.We design, manufacture and service technologically sophisticated systems and products, including subsea production and processing systems, surface wellhead production systems, high pressure fluid control equipment, measurement solutions and marine loading systems for the energy industry. We report our results of operations in the following reporting segments: Subsea Technologies, Surface Technologies and Energy Infrastructure. Financial information about our business segments is incorporated herein by reference from Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.During 2012 we acquired the remaining 55% of Schilling Robotics, LLC (“Schilling Robotics”), 100% of Pure Energy Services Ltd. (“Pure Energy”) and 100% of Control Systems International, Inc. (“CSI”). Schilling Robotics is a supplier of advanced robotic intervention products, including a line of remotely operating vehicle systems (“ROV”), manipulator systems and subsea control systems and is included in our Subsea Technologies segment. The acquisition of the remaining 55% of Schilling Robotics is allowing us to grow in the expanding subsea environment, where demand for ROVs and the need for maintenance activities of subsea equipment is expected to increase. Additionally, we acquired Pure Energy, a provider of fracturing flowback services and wireline services. The acquisition of Pure Energy is complementing the existing products and services of our Surface Technologies segment and is creating client value by providing an integrated well site solution. Finally, we acquired CSI, a provider of automation, control and information technology to the oil and gas industry. Included in our Energy Infrastructure segment, CSI is enhancing our automation and controls technologies and is benefiting production and processing businesses such as measurement solutions through comprehensive fuel terminal and pipeline automation systems. Additional financial information about our 2012 business combinations is incorporated herein by reference from Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.During 2013 and in conjunction with management’s efforts to accelerate the development and commercialization of subsea boosting technology for subsea markets, our direct drive systems technology development, previously reported in our Energy Infrastructure segment, is now reported in our Subsea Technologies segment. All prior-year information has been adjusted to reflect the current presentation.Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through our website at www.fmctechnologies.com, under “Investors—Financial Information—SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after we file the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Alternatively, our reports may be accessed through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference certain information from our Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. We intend to provide stockholders with an annual report containing financial information that has been examined and reported upon, with an opinion expressed thereon by our independent registered public accounting firm. On or about April 2, 2014, we expect our Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be available on our website under “Investors—Financial Information—SEC Filings.” Similarly, on the same date, we expect our 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders will be available on our website under “Investors—Financial Information—Annual Reports.”4BUSINESS SEGMENTSSubsea TechnologiesSubsea Technologies designs and manufactures products and systems and provides services used by oil and gas companies involved in deepwater exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. The core competencies of this segment are ourtechnology and engineering expertise. Our production systems control the flow of crude oil and natural gas from producing wells. We specialize in offshore production systems and have manufacturing facilities near the world’s principal offshore oil and gas producing basins. We market our products primarily through our own technical sales organization.Principal Products and ServicesSubsea Systems. Our systems are used in the offshore production of crude oil and natural gas. Subsea systems are placed on the seafloor and are used to control the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the reservoir to a host processing facility, such as a floating production facility, a fixed platform or an onshore facility.The design and manufacture of our subsea systems requires a high degree of technical expertise and innovation. Some of our systems are designed to withstand exposure to the extreme hydrostatic pressure that deepwater environments present, as well as internal pressures of up to 15,000 pounds per square inch (“psi”) and temperatures in excess of 350º F. The development of our integrated subsea production systems includes initial engineering design studies and field development planning to consider all relevant aspects and project requirements including optimization of drilling programs and subsea architecture. Our subsea production systems and products include drilling systems, subsea trees, chokes and flow modules, manifold pipeline systems, control and data acquisition systems, well access systems and other electric technology.  Additionally, as part of our technologies to enhance field economics by maximizing recovery, our subsea processing systems can enable cost-effective, platform-less solutions where the field is tied directly back to an existing offshore facility or directly to shore. Subsea processing system solutions include subsea boosting, subsea gas compression and subsea separation which are designed to accelerate production, increase recovery or extend field life. In order to provide these products, systems and services, we utilize engineering, project management, procurement, manufacturing, assembly and testing capabilities.We also provide well access and flow management services and other customer support services that offer a broad range of products and services including installation and workover tools, service technicians for installation assistance and field support for commissioning, intervention, and maintenance of our subsea systems throughout the life of the field. This scope of activity also includes providing tools and technical support such as our riserless light well intervention system for certain well workover and intervention tasks. In 2012, FMC Technologies formed a joint venture with Edison Chouest Offshore LLC to provide integrated vessel-based subsea services for offshore oil and gas fields around the world. This joint venture is expected to provide cost-effective solutions to enhance our customer’s ability to initiate, maintain and increase production from subsea field developments through efficient operations, innovative technologies and a broad inventory of vessels and tools.Subsea systems represented approximately 63%, 62% and 64% of our consolidated revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Schilling Robotics. We design and manufacture ROVs and remote manipulator arms and provide support services for subsea control systems for subsea exploration and production. Our product offering includes electric and hydraulic work-class ROVs, tether-management systems, launch and recovery systems, remote manipulator arms and modular control systems for wide-ranging subsea applications. We also provide services such as engineering services, operations and maintenance training, simulation and mission planning, and ROV mobilization support and service.Multi Phase Meters. We design and manufacture multiphase and wetgas meters with applications that include production and surface well testing, reservoir monitoring, remote operation, measurement of fluid rates for production and revenue sharing between partners, process monitoring and control, and artificial lift optimization. This technology delivers highly accurate, self-calibrating meters with low maintenance features to meet our customers’ increasing requirements for subsea and topside applications. The Multi Phase Meters product line augments our portfolio of technologies for increasing oil and gas recovery, early water detection and reservoir optimization.5Capital IntensityMany of the systems and products we supply for subsea applications are highly engineered to meet the unique demands of our customers and are typically ordered one to two years prior to installation. We often receive advance and progress payments from our customers in order to fund initial development and our working capital requirements. However, our working capital balances can vary significantly depending on the payment terms and execution timing on key contracts.Dependence on Key CustomersGenerally, our customers in this segment are major integrated oil companies, national oil companies and independent exploration and production companies.We have actively pursued alliances with oil and gas companies that are engaged in the subsea development of crude oil and natural gas to promote our integrated systems for subsea production. Development of subsea fields, particularly in deepwater environments, involves substantial capital investments by our customers. Our customers have sought the security of alliances with us to ensure timely and cost-effective delivery of subsea and other energy-related systems that provide integrated solutions to their needs. Our alliances establish important ongoing relationships with our customers. While our alliances do not contractually commit our customers to purchase our systems and services, they have historically led to, and we expect that they will continue to result in, such purchases. Examples of customers we have entered alliances with include Statoil, Shell, BP and Anadarko.The loss of one or more of our significant oil and gas company customers could have a material adverse effect on our Subsea Technologies business segment. In 2013, we generated approximately 12% of our consolidated revenue from Statoil.CompetitionSubsea Technologies competes with other companies that supply subsea systems and with smaller companies that are focused on a specific application, technology or geographical niche in which we operate. Companies including OneSubsea, GE Oil & Gas, Aker Solutions and Dril-Quip compete with us in the marketplace across our various Subsea Technologies product lines.Competitive factors in our industry include reliability, cost-effective technology, execution and delivery. Our competitive strengths include our intellectual capital, our execution of our projects, reliability of our products, experience base and breadth of technologies embedded in our products and services that enable us to design unique solutions for our customers’ project requirements while incorporating standardized components to contain costs. We maintain a presence in all of the world’s major producing basins. Our strong customer relationships, experience and technology help us maintain a leadership position in subsea systems.SeasonalityIn the North Sea, winter weather generally subdues drilling activity and demand for subsea services as certain activities cannot be performed. As a result, the level of offshore activity in our subsea services is negatively influenced and tends to decrease in the first quarter of the year.6Surface TechnologiesSurface Technologies designs and manufactures products and systems and provides services used by oil and gas companies involved in land and offshore exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. We also design, manufacture and supply technologically advanced high pressure valves, pumps and fittings used in stimulation activities for oilfield service companies and provide fracturing flowback and wireline services for exploration companies in the oil and gas industry.Principal Products and ServicesSurface Wellhead. We provide a full range of drilling, completion and production systems for both standard service and custom-engineered, critical-service applications. Surface production systems, or trees, are used to control and regulate the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the well. Our surface products and systems are used worldwide on both onshore and offshore applications and can be used in difficult climates, including arctic cold or desert high temperatures. Our product technologies include conventional wellheads, unihead drill-thru wellheads designed for faster surface installations, drilling time optimization (“DTO”) timesaving conventional wellheads designed to reduce overall rig time and other technologies including sealing technology, thermal equipment, and valves and actuators. We support our customers through comprehensive surface wellhead system service packages that provide strategic solutions to ensure optimal equipment performance and reliability and include all phases of the asset’s life cycle, from the early planning stages through testing and installation, commissioning and operations, replacement and upgrades, interventions, decommissioning/abandonment, and maintenance, storage and preservations. In addition, our integrated shale services include hydraulic fracturing manifolds and trees and flow back equipment for timely and cost-effective well completion.Surface wellhead represented approximately 14%, 13% and 14% of our consolidated revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Fluid Control. We design and manufacture flowline products, under the Weco®/Chiksan® trademarks, articulating frac arm manifold trailers, well service pumps, compact valves and reciprocating pumps used in well completion and stimulation activities by major oilfield service companies, such as Schlumberger Limited, Baker Hughes Incorporated, Halliburton Company and Weatherford International Ltd. Our flowline products are used in equipment that pumps corrosive and/or erosive fluid into a well during the well construction, hydraulic fracturing or other stimulation processes. Our well service pump product line includes Triplex and Quintuplex pumps utilized in a variety of applications including fracturing, acidizing and matrix stimulation and are capable of delivering flow rates up to 50 barrels per minute at pressures up to 20,000 psi. The performance of this business typically rises and falls with variations in the active rig count throughout the world and pressure pumping activity in the Americas.Fluid control represented approximately 8%, 12% and 12% of our consolidated revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Completion Services. We provide fracturing flowback services, cased hole electric wireline and slickline services, specialty logging services, pressure transient analysis, and well optimization and swabbing services for exploration companies in the oil and gas industry. Acquired in October 2012 and formerly known as Pure Energy Services Ltd., our completion services business provides fracturing flowback and wireline services. Fracturing flowback services provide our customers the well services necessary for the recovery of solids, fracturing fluids and hydrocarbons from oil and natural gas wells after the stimulation of the well and can involve high pressure or multi-well pad operations.Capital IntensitySurface Technologies manufactures most of its products, resulting in a reliance on manufacturing locations throughout the world. We also maintain a large amount of rental equipment related to pressure pumping operations.Dependence on Key CustomersNo single Surface Technologies customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2013, 2012 or 2011 consolidated revenue.7CompetitionSurface Technologies currently is a market leader for its primary products and services. Some of the competitive factors include technological innovation, reliability and product quality. Surface Technologies competes with other companies that supply surface production equipment and pressure pumping products. Some of our major competitors include Cameron International Corporation, Weir Oil & Gas, GE Oil & Gas and Gardner Denver, Inc.SeasonalityIn western Canada, the level of activity in the oilfield services industry is influenced by seasonal weather patterns. During the spring months, wet weather and the spring thaw make the ground unstable and less capable of supporting heavy equipment and machinery. As a result, municipalities and provincial transportation departments enforce road bans that restrict the movement of heavy equipment, which reduces activity levels. There is greater demand for oilfield services provided by our completion services business in the winter season when freezing permits the movement and operation of heavy equipment. Activities tend to increase in the fall and peak in the winter months of November through March.8Energy InfrastructurePrincipal Products and ServicesMeasurement Solutions. We design and manufacture measurement systems for use in custody transfer of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. Our measurement systems provide solutions in energy-related applications such as crude oil and natural gas production and transportation, refined product transportation, petroleum refining, and petroleum marketing and distribution. We combine advanced measurement technology with state-of-the-art electronics and supervisory control systems to provide the measurement of both liquids and gases for purposes of verifying ownership and determining revenue and tax obligations.We also provide design, engineering, project management, training, commissioning and aftermarket services in connection with the applications of blending and transfer technology solutions and process automation systems for manufacturers in the lubricant, petroleum, fuel blending, and additive and chemical industries.Loading Systems. We provide land- and marine-based fluid loading and transfer systems to the oil and gas, petrochemical and chemical industries. Our systems are capable of loading and offloading marine vessels transporting a wide range of fluids including crude oil, liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) and refined products. While these systems are typically constructed on a fixed jetty platform, we also have developed advanced loading systems that can be mounted on a vessel or structure to facilitate ship-to-ship and tandem loading and offloading operations in open seas or exposed locations.Material Handling Solutions. We provide material handling solutions, including bulk conveying systems, primarily to the power generation and mining industries. We provide innovative solutions for conveying, feeding, screening and orienting bulk product for customers in diverse industries. We offer system design, equipment supply, installation, commissioning and aftermarket support which enable us to provide performance optimization solutions for existing systems or newly customized turnkey plants.Separation Systems. We design and manufacture systems that separate production flows from wells into oil, gas, sand and water. Our separation technology improves upon conventional separation technologies by moving the flow in a spiral, spinning motion. This causes the elements of the flow stream to separate more efficiently than conventional separation technologies. These systems are currently capable of subsea and topside applications. For subsea separation, performing a part of the required separation process at the seabed enables our customers to have more effective production and reduces the need for topside processing capacity. We are able to apply subsea separation technologies for both greenfield development and retrofit solutions for fields currently in production in order to reduce costs for topside facilities and increase production and recovery of fields.Automation and Control. We provide automation, control and information technology for the oil and gas and other industries. Acquired in April 2012 and formerly known as Control Systems International, Inc., our automation and control business is a supplier of innovative control and automation system solutions through two primary products: (i) UCOS® and (ii) FUEL-FACS+®. UCOS® is a comprehensive software solution that combines distributed control system and supervisory control and data acquisition system retrofits using software solutions and compression control algorithms which allows customers to control and manage the engineering, design and monitoring of their systems of operations. Additionally, FUEL-FACS+® is a terminal automation and information management system that allows customers to monitor and control terminal liquid flows and inventory.Dependence on Key CustomersNo single Energy Infrastructure customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2013, 2012 or 2011 consolidated revenue.9OTHER BUSINESS INFORMATION RELEVANT TO OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTSProduct DevelopmentWe continue to invest in product development to advance technologies necessary to support the current and future technical challenges of our customers. New products and services are developed in order to ensure our ability to tender in upcoming projects and to develop our growth platforms. We also strive to increase standardization within our product lines in order to reduce delivery times, improve product integrity and control costs. To satisfy all these aims, we are focused on leveraging capabilities and advanced technologies across all of our businesses.In our Subsea Technologies segment, we seek to invest in new technology that will enable the development of challenging fields. We continue to expand the portfolio of solutions in order to deliver a complete production system for high pressure, high temperature (“HPHT”) applications. During 2013, we began delivering Enhanced Vertical Deepwater Trees (“EVDTs”) that can perform at pressures as high as 15,000 psi and temperatures of 350º F. Key development work continued in the areas of valves, seals and materials to engineer a portfolio of solutions for performance in 20,000 psi and 400º F environments.In addition to the development of new technology, we also seek to develop solutions that will help operators maximize recovery from existing subsea fields. We continue to develop motor and drive solutions for pumps in order to expand our subsea product portfolio and to meet a broader set of market needs. Along with our development partner, Sulzer Pumps Ltd, we advanced development of multiphase pump systems that will be capable of higher pressures, temperatures, and gas fractions. Utilizing our permanent magnet motor technology, our solutions offer higher speeds, power and efficiency than conventional induction motors. Also supporting these efforts was the development of sensing and monitoring technologies to enable condition and performance monitoring of subsea processing systems. This instrumentation will help operators better understand how subsea systems perform.Demanding field installations and well intervention operations are increasing the demand and use of ROVs. In our Schilling Robotics business, progress was made in the development of our third generation ultra-heavy duty, work-class ROV. This recent evolution will feature a new hydraulic system, tool dynamic positioning system and high definition Ethernet video system enhancing vehicle operation for ROV pilots.We are also expanding our subsea services portfolio enabling us to provide more services that maximize production and recovery over the life of the field. We continued construction of a fourth riserless light well intervention (“RLWI”) system. RLWI is a cost-effective intervention solution designed to perform various types of jobs in offshore wells that will improve and optimize recovery using smaller, purpose-built intervention vessels rather than rigs.In our Surface Technologies segment, development work focused on enhancing our capabilities to provide products and services to support shale operations. Our fluid control business completed development of its new fluid end for well service pumps. Fluid ends are high-wear products containing replaceable valve, piston and liner components that enable pumping. The new fluid end offers better fatigue life by improving internal and external geometry to lower stress. The design allows quick and easy maintenance of well service pumps used in pressure pumping applications. Additional investments in Surface Technologies were directed toward the development of condition and performance monitoring capabilities for surface trees as well as the enhancement of our capabilities to support shallow water production such as our JXT (Jack-Up X-mass Tree) product line, our tree systems for shallow water, jack-up applications. These standard products provide production options that enable operators to minimize time to first oil and reduce capital investments.In our Energy Infrastructure segment, our separation systems business completed the development of several technologies to improve separation performance, including development work on separation technology to support fracturing operations. These innovative technologies are expected to minimize the footprint of equipment at the frac site and reduce water costs. Our measurement solutions business completed development work on new hardware and software platforms for measurement devices. The new platform will be used across several product lines including ultrasonic meters and electronic truck registers and offers improved usability and diagnostic capabilities.10Order BacklogInformation regarding order backlog is incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled “Inbound Orders and Order Backlog” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Sources and Availability of Raw MaterialsOur business segments purchase carbon steel, stainless steel, aluminum and steel castings and forgings both domestically and internationally. We typically do not use single source suppliers for the majority of our raw material purchases; however, certain geographic areas of our businesses or a project or group of projects may heavily depend on certain suppliers for raw materials or supply of semi-finished goods. We believe the available supplies of raw materials are adequate to meet our needs.Research and DevelopmentWe are engaged in research and development (“R&D”) activities largely directed toward the improvement of existing products and services, the design of specialized products to meet customer needs and the development of new products, processes and services. A large part of our product development spending has focused on the improved design and standardization of our Subsea Technologies product lines to meet our customer needs. Financial information about Company-sponsored R&D activities is incorporated herein by reference from Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual PropertyWe own a number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and licenses that are cumulatively important to our businesses. As part of our ongoing research and development, we seek patents when appropriate for new products and product improvements. We have approximately 1,100 issued patents and pending patent applications worldwide. Further, we license intellectual property rights to or from third parties. We also own numerous U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names and have approximately 225 registrations and pending applications in the United States and abroad.We protect and promote our intellectual property portfolio and take those actions we deem appropriate to enforce and defend our intellectual property rights. We do not believe, however, that the loss of any one patent, trademark or license, or group of related patents, trademarks or licenses would have a material adverse effect on our overall business.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 19,300 full-time employees, consisting of approximately 6,450 in the United States and 12,850 in non-U.S. locations. Less than 2% of our U.S. employees are represented by labor unions.International Operations in Countries Subject to U.S. RestrictionsIn 2009, like many other companies, we adopted a policy directing our non-U.S. subsidiaries to effectuate an orderly withdrawal from doing business with the various countries subject to U.S. restrictions. This policy prohibited entering into new commitments involving these countries, but did not require the non-U.S. subsidiaries to cease performance of existing commitments, provided such commitments could be performed in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. As a result of this policy decision, non-U.S. subsidiary sales to these countries accounted for less than 0.002% of our consolidated revenue in 2013. As such, we consider these sales immaterial. We had no sales in Iran or Syria during 2013. While some residual service-related sales may occur after 2013, we expect these to be insignificant since all remaining outstanding commitments have been substantially completed.Segment and Geographic Financial InformationThe majority of our consolidated revenue and segment operating profits are generated in markets outside of the United States. Each of our segments’ revenue is dependent upon worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity. Financial information about our segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference from Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.11EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTPursuant to General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, the information regarding our executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K is hereby included in Part I, Item 1 “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.As of February 21, 2014, the executive officers of FMC Technologies, together with the offices currently held by them, their business experience and their ages, are as follows:Name Age     Current Position and Business ExperienceJohn T. Gremp 62 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (2013)Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (2012)Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (2011)President and Chief Operating Officer (2010)Executive Vice President—Energy Systems (2007)Maryann T. Seaman 51 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2011)Vice President—Treasurer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer (2010)Vice President—Administration (2007)Bradley D. Beitler 60 Vice President—Technology (2009)Director of Technology (2006)Sanjay Bhatia 44 Vice President—Corporate Development (2012)Director of Business Development (2007)Jeffrey W. Carr 57 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (2010)Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (2001)Tore Halvorsen 59 Senior Vice President—Subsea Technologies (2011)Senior Vice President—Global Subsea Production Systems (2007)Jay A. Nutt 50 Vice President and Controller (2009)Controller (2008)Johan Pfeiffer 49 Vice President—Surface Technologies (2011)Vice President—Global Surface Wellhead (2010)General Manager for Subsea activities in Europe, Africa, and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) (2007)Douglas J. Pferdehirt 50 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (2012)Executive Vice President—Corporate Development & Communication for Schlumberger Limited (2011)President Reservoir Production Group for Schlumberger Limited (2006)Mark J. Scott 60 Vice President—Administration (2010)Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Dresser, Inc. (2004)No family relationships exist among any of the above-listed officers, and there are no arrangements or understandings between any of the above-listed officers and any other person pursuant to which they serve as an officer. During the past five years, none of the above-listed officers was involved in any legal proceedings as defined in Item 401(f) of Regulation S-K. All officers are elected by the Board of Directors to hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.12ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSImportant risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC.Demand for our systems and services depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas.We are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry, including the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. Any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced pace of discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploitation of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our systems and services and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification or rescheduling of existing orders. These factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which, historically, have been volatile.Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following:•demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions;•costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;•political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest;•available excess production capacity within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries;•oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas;•technological advances affecting energy consumption;•potential acceleration of the development of alternative fuels;•access to capital and credit markets, which may affect our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services; and•natural disasters.The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities arising out of the installation or use of our systems that could adversely affect our financial condition.We are subject to equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, equipment misuse and natural disasters, the occurrence of which may result in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. Although we have obtained insurance against many of these risks, our insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. Further, the insurance may not generally be available in the future or, if available, premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.13Our operations require us to comply with numerous U.S. and international regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We are exposed to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to matters such as environmental, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export control, currency exchange, bribery and corruption and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, frequently change and have tended to become more stringent over time. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Our operations outside of the United States require us to comply with numerous anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations under the laws of the United States and various other countries. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) Bribery Act and the China Anti-Unfair Competition Law, among others, apply to us and our operations. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to these regulations. However, our policies, procedures and programs may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents, and severe criminal or civil sanctions may be imposed as a result of violations of these laws. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with applicable laws.Moreover, we import raw materials, semi-finished goods, as well as finished products into many countries for use in such countries or for manufacturing and/or finishing for re-export and import into another country for use or further integration into equipment or systems. Most movement of raw materials, semi-finished or finished products involves imports and exports.  As a result, compliance with multiple trade sanctions, embargoes and import/export laws and regulations, as well as the recently enacted conflict minerals reporting requirements, pose a constant challenge and risk to us since our business is conducted on a worldwide basis through various subsidiaries. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could materially affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and operating results.   Environmental laws and regulations affect the equipment, systems and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and believe that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. These regulations, as well as the adoption of other laws and regulations affecting exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas, could adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing our costs, limiting the demand for our systems and services or restricting our operations.International, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting emissions commonly referred to as greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions.  For instance, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has made findings that GHG emissions endanger public health and the environment and, based on these findings, has adopted regulations that restrict GHG emissions under existing provisions of the U.S. Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction of GHG emissions from motor vehicles and another that requires certain construction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources, including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. In addition, the European Emissions Trading Scheme is a program through which many of the European Union member states are implementing cap and trade controls covering numerous power stations and industrial facilities. These developments may curtail production and demand for oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and could adversely affect future demand for our products and services.14Moreover, environmental concerns have been raised regarding the potential impact of hydraulic fracturing or “fracking” on underground water supplies. We provide equipment and services to companies employing this enhanced recovery technique. There have been several regulatory and governmental initiatives in the United States to restrict the hydraulic fracturing process, which could have an adverse impact on our customers’ completion or production activities. The EPA issued rules on April 17, 2012, which become effective in January 2015, designed to limit the release of volatile organic compounds, or pollutants, from natural gas wells that are hydraulically fractured.  Certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. Hydraulic fracturing restrictions also have been or are being considered for adoption in other countries.  Should additional governmental regulations ultimately be imposed that further restrict or curtail hydraulic fracturing activities, the demand for our equipment and services could be impacted, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the foreign countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations.We operate manufacturing facilities in 16 countries outside of the United States and approximately 73% of our 2013 revenue was generated internationally. Instability and unforeseen changes in the international markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas such as North Africa, West Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”), could have an adverse effect on the demand for our systems and services, our financial condition or our results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:•nationalization and expropriation;•potentially burdensome taxation;•inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets;•civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, terrorist attacks, cyber-terrorism, military activity and wars;•supply disruptions in key oil producing countries;•ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing;•trade restrictions, trade protection measures or price controls;•foreign ownership restrictions;•import or export licensing requirements;•restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws and regulations;•changes in, and the administration of, laws and regulations;•inability to repatriate income or capital;•reductions in the availability of qualified personnel;•foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; and•fluctuations in the interest rate component of forward foreign currency rates.Because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside of the United States and the amount of our stockholders’ equity. Although it is our policy to seek to minimize our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where appropriate, our efforts may not be successful. To the extent we sell our products and services in foreign markets, currency fluctuations may result in our products and services becoming too expensive for foreign customers. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our financial results.15We may lose money on fixed-price contracts.As is customary for the types of businesses in which we operate, we often agree to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for cost overruns. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts may vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. There is inherent risk in the estimation process, including significant unforeseen technical and logistical challenges or longer than expected lead times. A fixed-price contract may prohibit our ability to mitigate the impact of unanticipated increases in raw material prices through increased pricing. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Disruptions in the timely delivery of our backlog could affect our future sales, profitability, and our relationships with our customers.Many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times due to complex technical and logistical requirements. These contracts may contain penalty clauses relating to on-time delivery, and a failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to contractual penalties, reduce our margins on these contracts or result in damage to existing customer relationships. The ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, subcontractor performance, project engineering expertise, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance.Due to the types of contracts we enter into, the cumulative loss of several major contracts or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We often enter into large, long-term contracts that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. For example, we have an alliance of this type with Statoil from which we generated approximately 12% of our consolidated revenue in 2013. These agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter-term contracts due to the value at risk. If we were to lose several key alliances or agreements over a relatively short period of time we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Increased costs of raw materials and other components may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows.Our results of operations may be adversely affected by our inability to manage the rising costs and availability of raw materials and components used in our wide variety of products and systems. Unexpected changes in the size and timing of regional and/or product markets, particularly for short lead-time products, could affect our results of operations or cash flows.Moreover, in August 2012, the SEC issued its final rule to implement Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding mandatory disclosure and reporting requirements by public companies of their use of “conflict minerals” (tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. We are required to conduct specified due diligence activities for the 2013 calendar year and provide our first report in May 2014. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain of the conflict minerals used in the manufacture of our products or in the provision of our services. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to purchase these products in the future. The costs of compliance, including those related to supply chain research, the limited number of suppliers and possible changes in the sourcing of these minerals, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.16Our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees.We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of any of these officers or key management could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. In addition, competition for qualified employees among companies, like ours, that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense. The loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products and services.A failure of our information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our business and results of operations.The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology (“IT”) systems. Accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, incursions by intruders or hackers, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, cyber terrorists and other similar disruptions. The failure of our IT systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, increased overhead costs and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.Our success depends on our ability to implement new technologies and services.Our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs and improvements and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. If we are not able to obtain patent or other protection of our technology, we may not be able to continue to develop systems, services and technologies to meet evolving industry requirements, and if so, at prices acceptable to our customers.Some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that may be able to devote greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources to the research and development of new systems, services and technologies than we are able to do. If we are unable to compete effectively given these risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Uninsured claims and litigation against us, including intellectual property litigation, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation, as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available. However, no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. Our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance.In addition, the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs.17A downgrade in the rating of our debt could restrict our ability to access the capital markets.Changes in the ratings assigned to our debt may impact our access to the debt capital markets. If ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets could become restricted. Moreover, our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. An increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.ITEM 1B