Item 1A.  Risk Factors
          ------------

Before you make an  investment  decision  with  respect to our  securities,  you
should  carefully  consider all the information we have included or incorporated
by reference in this Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC.
In particular,  you should carefully  consider the risk factors  described below
and read the risks and uncertainties related to "forward-looking  statements" as
set forth in the  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and  Results  of   Operations"   section  of  this  Form  10-K.  The  risks  and
uncertainties  described  below  are not  the  only  ones  facing  our  company.
Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we
currently  deem  immaterial  or that are not  specific  to us,  such as  general
economic conditions,  may also adversely affect our business and operations. The
following  risk  factors  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  MD&A  and the
consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report.

Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry
- ---------------------------------------------

         We face intense competition, which could adversely affect us.

         The telecommunications industry is extremely competitive and
competition is increasing. The traditional dividing lines between long distance,
local, wireless, cable and internet service providers are becoming increasingly
blurred. Through mergers and various service expansion strategies, services
providers are striving to provide integrated solutions both within and across
geographic markets. Our competitors include CLECs and other providers (or
potential providers) of services, such as internet service providers, or ISPs,
wireless companies, neighboring incumbents, VOIP providers and cable companies
that may provide services competitive with the services that we offer or intend
to introduce. Competition is intense and increasing and we cannot assure you
that we will be able to compete effectively. For example, at December 31, 2008,
we had 174,800 fewer access lines than we had at December 31, 2007, and we
believe wireless and cable telephony providers have increased their market share
in our markets. We expect to continue to lose access lines and that competition
with respect to all our products and services will increase.

         We expect competition to intensify as a result of the entrance of new
competitors, penetration of existing competitors into new markets, changing
consumer behavior and the development of new technologies, products and services
that can be used in substitution for ours. We cannot predict which of the many
possible future technologies, products or services will be important to maintain
our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and
provide these technologies, products or services. Our ability to compete
successfully will depend on the success and cost of marketing efforts and on our
ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the
industry, including a changing regulatory environment that may affect our
competitors and us differently, new services that may be introduced, changes in
consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing
strategies by competitors. Increasing competition may reduce our revenues and
increase our marketing and other costs as well as require us to increase our
capital expenditures and thereby decrease our cash flow.

                                       8


     Some of our competitors  have superior  resources,  which may place us at a
cost and price disadvantage.

         Some of our current and potential competitors have market presence,
engineering, technical and marketing capabilities, and financial, personnel and
other resources substantially greater than ours. In addition, some of our
competitors can raise capital at a lower cost than we can. Consequently, some
competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network
infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies
and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other
opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and
sale of their products and services than we can. Additionally, the greater brand
name recognition of some competitors may require us to price our services at
lower levels in order to retain or obtain customers. Finally, the cost
advantages of some competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices
for an extended period of time if they so choose.

Risks Related to Our Business
- -----------------------------

     Decreases in certain types of our revenues will impact our profitability.

         Our business has experienced declining access lines, switched access
minutes of use, long distance prices, Federal and state subsidies and related
revenues because of economic conditions, increasing competition, changing
consumer behavior (such as wireless displacement of wireline use, email use,
instant messaging and increasing use of VOIP), technology changes and regulatory
constraints. Our access lines declined 7% in 2008, and 6% in 2007 (excluding the
access lines added through our acquisitions of Commonwealth Telephone
Enterprises, Inc. (Commonwealth or CTE) and Global Valley Networks, Inc. and GVN
Services (together GVN)). These factors are likely to cause our local network
service, switched network access, long distance and subsidy revenues to continue
to decline, and these factors, together with increased cash taxes may cause our
cash generated by operations to decrease.

         A significant portion of our revenues ($285.0 million, or 13% in 2008)
is derived from access charges paid by IXCs for services we provide in
originating and terminating intrastate and interstate traffic. The amount of
access charge revenues we receive for these services is regulated by the FCC and
state regulatory agencies.

     We may be unable to grow our revenue and cash flow despite the  initiatives
we have implemented.

         We must produce adequate cash flow that, when combined with funds
available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to service our
debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes and maintain our current
dividend policy. We expect that our cash taxes, which increased significantly in
2008, will continue to increase in 2009 due to our expectations of continued
profitability and the effects of fully utilizing our federal net operating loss
carryforwards and Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) tax credit carryforwards that
were generated in prior years. We have implemented several growth initiatives,
including increasing our marketing promotion/expenditures and launching new
products and services with a focus on areas that are growing or demonstrate
meaningful demand such as wireline and wireless High-Speed Internet, the DISH
satellite television product and our Peace of Mind computer technical support.
We cannot assure you that these initiatives will improve our financial position
or our results of operations.

     We may complete a significant  strategic  transaction  that may not achieve
intended results and/or increase our outstanding shares and/or debt or result in
a change of control.

     We  continuously  evaluate  and  may in the  future  enter  into  strategic
transactions.  Any such transaction  could happen at any time, could be
material to our business and could take any number of forms,  including,  for
example, an acquisition, merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our
assets.

     Evaluating potential transactions and integrating completed ones may divert
management's  attention from ordinary  operating  matters. The success of these
and other potential transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to
realize the anticipated  synergies,  cost savings and growth  opportunities
through the successful integration of the businesses we acquire with our
existing business.  Even if we are successful integrating acquired businesses,
we cannot assure you that these  integrations  will result in the  realization
of the full benefit of the anticipated  synergies,  cost savings or growth
opportunities or that these benefits  will be  realized  within the  expected
time  frames.  In  addition, acquired businesses may have unanticipated
liabilities or contingencies.

     If we complete an acquisition, investment or other strategic transaction
we may require additional  financing that could result in an increase in the
number of our outstanding  shares and/or the aggregate  amount of our debt. The
number of shares of our common stock and/or the aggregate  principal amount of
our debt that we may issue may be  significant. A strategic  transaction may
result in a change in control of our company or otherwise  materially  and
adversely  impact our business.

                                       9



         Weak economic conditions may decrease demand for our services.

         We could be sensitive to the ongoing recession. Downturns in the
economy and competition in our markets could cause some of our existing
customers to reduce or eliminate their purchases of our basic and enhanced
services, High-Speed Internet and video services and make it difficult for us to
obtain new customers. In addition, current economic conditions could cause our
customers to delay or discontinue payment for our services.

     Disruption  in  our  networks  and  infrastructure  may  cause  us to  lose
customers and incur additional expenses.

         To attract and retain customers, we will need to continue to provide
them with reliable service over our networks. Some of the risks to our networks
and infrastructure include physical damage to access lines, security breaches,
capacity limitations, power surges or outages, software defects and disruptions
beyond our control, such as natural disasters and acts of terrorism. From time
to time in the ordinary course of business, we experience short disruptions in
our service due to factors such as cable damage, inclement weather and service
failures of our third party service providers. We could experience more
significant disruptions in the future. We could also face disruptions due to
capacity limitations if changes in our customers' usage patterns for our
High-Speed Internet services result in a significant increase in capacity
utilization, such as through increased usage of video or peer-to-peer file
sharing applications. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced
capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and
incur additional expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue
and cash flows.

     Our  business  is  sensitive  to  the  creditworthiness  of  our  wholesale
customers.

         We have substantial business relationships with other
telecommunications carriers for whom we provide service. While bankruptcies of
these carriers have not had a material adverse effect on our business in recent
years, future bankruptcies in our industry could result in our loss of
significant customers, more price competition and uncollectible accounts
receivable. Such bankruptcies may be more likely in the future, given the
ongoing recession. As a result, our revenues and results of operations could be
materially and adversely affected.

     A significant  portion of our workforce is unionized,  and if we are unable
to reach new agreements before our current labor contracts expire, our unionized
workers  could engage in strikes or other labor  actions  that could  materially
disrupt our ability to provide services to our customers.

         As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 5,700 active employees.
Approximately 2,900, or 51%, of these employees were represented by unions
subject to collective bargaining agreements. Of the union-represented employees,
approximately 1,400, or 49%, have collective bargaining agreements that expire
in 2009. We cannot predict the outcome of negotiations for these agreements. If
we are unable to reach new agreements, union employees may engage in strikes,
work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our
ability to provide services. New labor agreements may impose significant new
costs on us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results
of operations in the future.

Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources and Capitalization
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

     The recent severe  contraction in the global financial  markets and ongoing
recession may have an impact on our business and financial condition.

         Diminished availability of credit and liquidity due to the recent
severe contraction in the global financial markets and ongoing recession may
impact the financial health of the Company's customers, vendors and partners,
which in turn may negatively impact the Company's revenues, operating expenses
and cash flows. In addition, although we believe, based on information available
to us, that the financial institutions syndicated under our revolving credit
facility would be able to fulfill their commitments to us, given the current
economic environment and the recent severe contraction in the global financial
markets, this could change in the future.

                                       10


         As a result of negative investment returns and ongoing benefit
payments, the Company's pension plan assets have declined from $822.2 million at
December 31, 2007 to $589.8 million at December 31, 2008, a decrease of $232.4
million, or 28%. This decrease represents a decline in asset value of $162.9
million, or 20%, and benefits paid of $69.5 million, or 8%. The decline in
pension plan assets did not impact our results of operations, liquidity or cash
flows in 2008. However, we expect that our pension expense will increase in 2009
and that we may be required to make a cash contribution to our pension plan
beginning in 2010.

         The Company has significant debt maturities in 2011 when approximately
$1.1 billion of our debt matures. Historically, the Company has refinanced its
debt obligations well in advance of scheduled maturities. Given the current
credit environment, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted,
our cost of borrowing may be materially higher than previous debt issuances
and/or we may not be able to borrow on terms as favorable as those in our
current debt instruments.

         Substantial debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us.

      We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which amounted to $4.7
billion at December 31, 2008. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and
working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to
certain restrictions under the terms of our existing indebtedness, which would
increase our total debt.

      The significant negative consequences on our financial condition and
results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:

          *    limitations  on our ability to obtain  additional  debt or equity
               financing,   particularly   in  light  of  the   current   credit
               environment;

          *    instances in which we are unable to meet the financial  covenants
               contained in our debt  agreements or to generate cash  sufficient
               to make  required debt  payments,  which  circumstances  have the
               potential  of  accelerating  the  maturity  of some or all of our
               outstanding indebtedness;

          *    the  allocation  of a  substantial  portion of our cash flow from
               operations  to service our debt,  thus reducing the amount of our
               cash flow  available  for  other  purposes,  including  operating
               costs,  capital expenditures and dividends that could improve our
               competitive position, results of operations or stock price;

          *    requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of
               our core assets,  possibly on unfavorable  terms, to meet payment
               obligations;

          *    compromising   our   flexibility   to  plan  for,  or  react  to,
               competitive  challenges  in our business  and the  communications
               industry; and

          *    the  possibility  of our being put at a competitive  disadvantage
               with  competitors  who  do not  have  as  much  debt  as us,  and
               competitors  who may be in a more  favorable  position  to access
               additional capital resources.

     We will require substantial capital to upgrade and enhance our operations.

         Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure will result in significant
capital expenditures. If this capital is not available when needed, our business
will be adversely affected. Increasing competition, offering new services,
improving the capabilities or reducing the maintenance costs of our plant may
cause our capital expenditures to increase in the future. In addition, our
ongoing annual dividend of $1.00 per share under our current policy utilizes a
significant portion of our cash generated by operations and therefore limits our
operating and financial flexibility and our ability to significantly increase
capital expenditures. While we believe that the amount of our dividend will
allow for adequate amounts of cash flow for capital spending and other purposes,
any material reduction in cash generated by operations and any increases in
capital expenditures, interest expense or cash taxes would reduce the amount of
cash generated by operations and available for payment of dividends. Losses of
access lines, the effects of increased competition, lower subsidy and access
revenues and the other factors described above may reduce our cash generated by
operations and may require us to increase capital expenditures. In addition, we
expect our cash paid for taxes, which increased significantly in 2008, will
continue to increase in 2009.

                                       11


Risks Related to Regulation
- ---------------------------

         The access charge revenues we receive may be reduced at any time.

         A significant portion of our revenues ($285.0 million, or 13% in 2008)
is derived from access charges paid by IXCs for services we provide in
originating and terminating intrastate and interstate traffic. The amount of
access charge revenues we receive for these services is regulated by the FCC and
state regulatory agencies.

         The FCC is considering proposals that may significantly change
interstate, intrastate and local intercarrier compensation. When and how these
proposed changes will be addressed are unknown and, accordingly, we are unable
to predict the impact of future changes on our results of operations. However,
future reductions in our access revenues will directly affect our profitability
and cash flows as those regulatory revenues do not have associated variable
expenses.

         Certain states have open proceedings to address reform to access
charges and other intercarrier compensation. We cannot predict when or how these
matters will be decided or the effect on our subsidy or access revenues. In
addition, we have been approached by, and/or are involved in formal state
proceedings with, various carriers seeking reductions in intrastate access rates
in certain states. Certain of those claims have led to formal complaints to the
state PUCs. A material reduction in the access revenues we receive would
adversely affect our financial results.

         We are reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws.

         We receive a portion of our revenue ($119.8 million, or 5%, in 2008 and
$130.0 million, or 6%, in 2007) from federal and state subsidies, including the
federal high cost fund, federal local switching support fund, federal universal
service fund surcharge and various state funds. The FCC and state regulators are
currently considering a number of proposals for changing the manner in which
eligibility for federal and state subsidies is determined as well as the amounts
of such subsidies. Although the FCC issued an order on May 1, 2008 to cap CETC
receipts from the high cost Federal Universal Service Fund, which we believe is
a positive first step to limit the rapid growth of the fund, the CETC Cap will
only remain in place until the FCC takes additional steps. We cannot predict
when the FCC will take additional actions or the effect of any such actions on
our subsidy revenue.

         The federal high cost fund is our largest source of subsidy revenue
(approximately $20.8 million in 2008). We currently expect that as a result of
both an increase in the national average cost per loop and a decrease in our
cost structure, there will be a decrease in the subsidy revenue we earn in 2009
through the federal high cost support fund.

         In addition, approximately $37.1 million, or 2% of our revenue
represents a surcharge to customers (local, long distance and IXC) which is
remitted to the FCC and recorded as an expense in "other operating expenses."

     Our  company  and  industry  are  highly  regulated,  imposing  substantial
compliance costs and constraining our ability to compete in our target markets.

         As an incumbent, we are subject to significant regulation from Federal,
state and local authorities. This regulation restricts our ability to change our
rates, especially on our basic services, and imposes substantial compliance
costs on us. Regulation constrains our ability to compete and, in some
jurisdictions, it may restrict how we are able to expand our service offerings.
In addition, changes to the regulations that govern us may have an adverse
effect upon our business by reducing the allowable fees that we may charge,
imposing additional compliance costs, or otherwise changing the nature of our
operations and the competition in our industry.

         Customers are permitted to retain their wireline number when switching
to another service provider. This is likely to increase the number of our
customers who decide to disconnect their service from us. Other pending
rulemakings, including those relating to intercarrier compensation, universal
service and VOIP regulations, could have a substantial adverse impact on our
operations.

                                       12



Risks Related to Technology
- ---------------------------

     In the future as  competition  intensifies  within our  markets,  we may be
unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of our customers, and may
lose customers as a result.

         The telecommunications industry is subject to significant changes in
technology. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment, we will be
unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the needs or
expectations of our customers. Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure could
result in significant capital expenditures.

         In addition, rapidly changing technology in the telecommunications
industry may influence our customers to consider other service providers. For
example, we may be unable to retain customers who decide to replace their
wireline telephone service with wireless telephone service. In addition, VOIP
technology, which operates on broadband technology, now provides our competitors
with a low-cost alternative to provide voice services to our customers.

Item 1B