Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

Before you make an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider all the information we have included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC.  In particular, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below and read the risks and uncertainties related to “forward-looking statements” (which we do not undertake to update) as set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this Form 10-K, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report.   The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company.  Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report.




Risks Related to Our Business




 We will likely face further reductions in voice customers, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues and federal and state subsidy revenues, which could adversely affect us.

 

We have experienced declining voice customers, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues, federal and state subsidies and related revenues because of economic conditions, increasing competition, changing consumer behavior (such as wireless displacement of wireline use, e-mail use, instant messaging and increasing use of VoIP), technology changes and regulatory constraints.  We will likely continue to experience reductions in the future.  The factors referred to above, among others, are likely to cause our local network service, switched network access, long distance and subsidy revenues to continue to decline, and these factors may cause our cash generated by operations to decrease.

 

We face intense competition, which could adversely affect us.

 

The communications industry is extremely competitive. Through mergers and various service expansion strategies, service providers are striving to provide integrated solutions both within and across geographic markets.  Our competitors include competitive local exchange carriers, Internet service providers, wireless companies, VoIP providers and cable companies that may provide services competitive with the services that we offer or intend to introduce.  We also believe that wireless and cable telephony providers have increased their penetration of various services in our markets.  We expect that we will continue to lose customers and that competition will remain robust.

 

We cannot predict which of the many possible future technologies, products or services will be important in order to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services.  Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the success of capital expenditure investments in our territories, in addition to our new marketing efforts, our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including a changing regulatory environment that may affect our business and that of our competitors differently, new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors.  Increasing competition may reduce our revenues and increase our marketing and other costs as well as require us to increase our capital expenditures and thereby decrease our cash flows.

 

Some of our competitors have superior resources, which may place us at a cost and price disadvantage.

 

Some of our competitors have market presence, engineering, technical, marketing and financial capabilities, substantially greater than ours.  In addition, some of these competitors are able to raise capital at a lower cost than we are able to.  Consequently, some of these competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we will be able to.  Additionally, the greater brand name recognition of some competitors may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to retain or obtain customers. Finally, the cost advantages of some of these competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose.

 






  



15







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

 

We may be unable to grow our revenues and cash flows despite the initiatives we have implemented.

 

We must produce adequate revenues and cash flows that, when combined with cash on hand and funds available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes, fund our pension and other employee benefit obligations and pay dividends pursuant to our dividend policy.  We have identified some potential areas of opportunity and implemented several growth initiatives, including increasing marketing promotions and related expenditures and launching new products and services with a focus on areas that are growing such as commercial, wireless and satellite broadband, satellite video products, and the Frontier Secure suite of products, which includes computer technical support.  We cannot assure you that these opportunities will be successful or that these initiatives will improve our financial position or our results of operations.




Weak economic conditions may decrease demand for our services or necessitate increased discounts.

 

We could be adversely impacted if current economic conditions or their effects continue.  Downturns in the economy and competition in our markets could cause some of our customers to reduce or eliminate their purchases of our basic and enhanced services, broadband and video services and make it difficult for us to obtain new customers.  In addition, if current economic conditions continue, our customers may delay or discontinue payment for our services or seek more competitive pricing from other service providers, or we may be required to offer increased discounts in order to retain our customers.

 

Disruption in our networks, infrastructure and information technology may cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses.

 

To attract and retain customers, we must provide reliable service.  Some of the risks to our networks, infrastructure and information technology include physical damage, security breaches, capacity limitations, power surges or outages, software defects and other disruptions beyond our control, such as natural disasters and acts of terrorism.  From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we experience short disruptions in our service due to factors such as cable damage, theft of our equipment, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers.  We could experience more significant disruptions in the future.  We could also face disruptions due to capacity limitations if changes in our customers’ usage patterns for our broadband services result in a significant increase in capacity utilization, such as through increased usage of video or peer-to-peer file sharing applications.  Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur additional expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenues and cash flows.

 

    Our business is sensitive to the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers.

 

We have substantial business relationships with other telecommunications carriers for whom we provide service.  While bankruptcies of these carriers have not had a material adverse effect on our business in recent years, future bankruptcies in the industry could result in the loss of significant customers by us, as well as cause more price competition and increased uncollectible accounts receivable.  Such bankruptcies may be more likely in the future if economic conditions stagnate.  As a result, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

 

A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions.

 

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 14,700 employees.   Approximately 9,200 of these employees, or 63% of the total workforce, were represented by unions and were therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements.   Of the union-represented employees as of December 31, 2012, approximately 6,600, or 72% of the unionized workforce, are covered by collective agreements that expire in 2013 and approximately 1,200, or 13% of the unionized workforce, are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2014.




We cannot predict the outcome of negotiations of the collective bargaining agreements covering our employees.  If we are unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services.  New labor agreements or the renewal of existing agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.






  



16







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

If we are unable to hire or retain key personnel, we may be unable to operate our business successfully.

 

Our success will depend in part upon the continued services of our management.  We cannot guarantee that our key personnel will not leave or compete with us.  The loss, incapacity or unavailability for any reason of key members of our management team could have a material impact on our business.  In addition, our financial results and our ability to compete will suffer should we become unable to attract, integrate or retain other qualified personnel in the future.

 

Regulatory authorities, in connection with their approval of the acquisition, imposed on us certain conditions relating to our capital expenditures and business operations which may adversely affect our financial performance.

 

The FCC and certain state regulatory commissions, in connection with granting their approvals of the Transaction, specified certain capital expenditure and operating requirements for the Acquired Territories for specified periods of time post-closing.  These requirements focus primarily on certain capital investment commitments to expand broadband availability to at least 85% of the households throughout the acquired Territories with minimum download speeds of 3 megabits per second (Mbps) by the end of 2013 and 4 Mbps by the end of 2015.  As of December 31, 2012 we had expanded broadband availability in excess of 1 Mbps to 86% of the households throughout the Acquired Territories, in excess of 3 Mbps to 84% of the households throughout the Acquired Territories, and in excess of 4 Mbps to 78% of the households throughout the Acquired Territories.




To satisfy all or part of certain capital investment commitments to three state regulatory commissions, we placed an aggregate amount of $115.0 million in cash into escrow accounts and obtained a letter of credit for $190.0 million in 2010. Another $72.4 million of cash in an escrow account (with a cash balance of $23.9 million and an associated liability of $0.2 million as of December 31, 2012) was acquired in connection with the Transaction to be used for service quality initiatives in the state of West Virginia.  As of December 31, 2012, $145.0 million had been released from escrow and the Company had a restricted cash balance in these escrow accounts in the aggregate amount of $42.7 million, including interest earned. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, the letter of credit had been reduced to $40.0 million.  The aggregate amount of these escrow accounts and the letter of credit will continue to decrease over time as Frontier makes the required capital expenditures in the respective states.  The amounts held in these escrow accounts will not be released until Frontier makes the required capital expenditures, and we may have to spend more than the amounts currently held in these escrow accounts to achieve the capital expenditure and operating requirements.

 

     In addition, in certain states, we are subject to operating restrictions such as rate caps (including maintenance of existing rates on business and residential products and wholesale prices and terms of interconnection agreements with competitive local exchange carriers and arrangements with carriers that, in each case, existed as of the time of the Transaction), continuation of product bundle offerings that we offered before the Transaction, and restrictions on how early termination fees are calculated, restrictions on caps on usage of broadband capacity, and certain minimum service quality standards for a defined period of time (the failure of which to meet, may result in penalties, including in one state, cash management limitations on certain of our subsidiaries in that one state).  In one other state, our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the amount of dividends that can be paid to the parent company for a period ending on June 30, 2014.  We are also required to report certain financial information and adhere for a period of time to certain conditions regulating competition and consumer protection.




We may complete a future significant strategic transaction that may not achieve intended results or could increase the number of our outstanding shares or amount of outstanding debt or result in a change of control.

 

We continuously evaluate and may in the future enter into additional strategic transactions.  Any such transaction could happen at any time, could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, an acquisition, merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets.

 

Evaluating potential transactions and integrating completed ones may divert the attention of our management from ordinary operating matters.  The success of these potential transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies through the successful integration of the businesses we acquire with our existing business.  Even if we are successful in integrating acquired businesses, we cannot assure you that these integrations will result in the realization of the full benefit of any anticipated growth opportunities or cost synergies or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames.  In addition, acquired businesses may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies.

 

If we complete an acquisition, investment or other strategic transaction, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in the number of our outstanding shares or the aggregate amount of our debt.  The number of shares of our common stock or the aggregate principal amount of our debt that we may issue may be significant.  A strategic transaction may result in a change in control of our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business.

 



  



17







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources and Capitalization

 

If the lingering impact of the ongoing economic uncertainty continues through 2013, it may have an impact on our business and financial condition.

 

Disruption and uncertainty in the capital markets, and tightening of credit availability may affect the financial health of our customers, vendors and partners, which in turn may negatively affect our revenues, operating expenses and cash flows.  In addition, we have a $750.0 million revolving credit facility that is scheduled to terminate on January 1, 2014.  Although we believe, based on information available to us, that the financial institutions syndicated under the revolving credit facility would be able to fulfill their commitments to us, this could change in the future.

 

Volatility in asset values related to Frontier’s pension plan and/or changes in pension plan assumptions may require us to make contributions to fund pension plan liabilities.

 

Frontier’s pension plan assets have decreased from $1,258.0 million at December 31, 2011, to $1,253.6 million at December 31, 2012, a decrease of $4.4 million.  This decrease is a result of benefit payments of $172.6 million, primarily offset by $139.6 million of positive investment returns (including additional asset transfers from Verizon of $13.0 million) and net contributions of cash of $28.6 million.  The Company expects to make contributions of approximately $60 million in 2013.  Volatility in our asset values or returns may require us to make additional contributions in future years.

 

Substantial debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us.

 

We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which amounted to $8.9 billion at December 31, 2012.  On January 15, 2013, $502.7 million of this indebtedness matured and was retired with cash on hand.  We have access to a $750.0 million revolving credit facility and may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under the terms of our existing indebtedness.  Despite the substantial indebtedness that we have, we are not prohibited from incurring additional indebtedness.

 

The potential significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:








·  


limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing;











·  


instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness;











·  


the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs, capital expenditures and dividends that would otherwise improve our competitive position, results of operations or stock price;











·  


requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;











·  


compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the communications industry; and











·  


the possibility of our being put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who do not have as much debt as we do, and competitors who may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.







In addition, our senior notes are rated below “investment grade” by independent ratings agencies.  This can result in higher borrowing costs for us.  We cannot assure you that these rating agencies will not lower our current debt ratings, if in the rating agencies’ judgment, such an action is appropriate.  A lowering of a rating may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.

 



  



18







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

We cannot assure that we will be able to continue paying dividends.




Effective February 16, 2012, our Board of Directors set the annual cash dividend at $0.40 per share, a reduction from our prior dividend level of $0.75 per share.  However, the amount and timing of future dividend payments is subject to applicable law and will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors based on factors such as cash flow and cash requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition and other factors.

 

We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet.  If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings and reduce our stockholders’ equity.




Under generally accepted accounting principles, intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable.  The Company monitors relevant circumstances, including general economic conditions, enterprise value EBITDA multiples for rural ILEC properties, the Company’s overall financial performance, and the market prices for the Company’s common stock, and the potential that changes in such circumstances might have on the valuation of the Company’s intangible assets, including goodwill.  If our intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined.




Risks Related to Regulation




Changes in federal or state regulations may reduce the switched access charge revenues we receive.

 

A significant portion of Frontier’s total revenues ($257.8 million, or 5%, in 2012) are derived from switched access charges paid by other carriers for services we provide in originating and terminating intrastate and interstate long distance traffic.  As a result, Frontier expects a significant portion of the Company’s revenues will continue to be derived from switched access charges paid by these carriers for services that the Company will provide in originating and terminating this traffic.  The amount of switched access charge revenues that the Company will receive for these services is regulated by the FCC and state regulatory agencies and is expected to decline in 2013.

 

On November 18, 2011, the FCC adopted the Order.  Intercarrier Compensation, which is the payment framework that governs how carriers compensate each other for the exchange of interstate traffic, will transition over a number of years, with the first step implemented in July 2012, to a near zero rate for terminating traffic by 2017.  Frontier will be able to recover a significant portion of those revenues through end user rates and other replacement support mechanisms.  Additionally, the Order requires VoIP providers to pay interstate terminating interconnection charges and requires all carriers terminating traffic to provide appropriate call information, thus prohibiting so-called “phantom traffic”.  The Order preempts the states with regard to the regulation of intrastate terminating access rates.  The reform of the Universal Service Fund shifts the existing High-Cost portion of the fund from supporting voice services to supporting broadband deployment in high-cost areas.  The Order has been challenged by certain parties in court and certain parties have also petitioned the FCC to reconsider various aspects of the Order. Accordingly, although we believe that the Order will provide a stable regulatory framework to facilitate Frontier’s ongoing focus on the deployment of broadband into its rural markets, Frontier cannot predict the long-term impact at this time.

 

The FCC also has an ongoing proceeding considering whether to make changes to its regulatory regime governing special access services. When and how these proposed changes will be addressed is unknown and, accordingly, Frontier cannot predict the impact of future changes on the Company’s results of operations.

 

Certain states also have their own open proceedings to address reform to intrastate access charges and other intercarrier compensation and state universal service funds.  In addition, Frontier has been approached by, and/or is involved in formal state proceedings with, various carriers seeking reductions in intrastate access rates in certain states.  Although the FCC has pre-empted state jurisdiction on certain access charges, many states are still considering moving forward with their proceedings. Frontier cannot predict when or how these matters will be decided or the effect on the Company’s subsidy or switched access revenues.  However, future reductions in the Company’s subsidy or switched access revenues may directly affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows as those regulatory revenues do not have an equal level of associated variable expenses.






  



19







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

We are reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws.

 

A significant portion of Frontier’s total revenues ($318.6 million in the aggregate, or 6%, in 2012 and $300.1 million in the aggregate, or 6%, in 2011) are derived from federal and state subsidies for rural and high cost support, commonly referred to as universal service fund subsidies. The FCC’s Order changed how federal subsidies will be calculated and disbursed, with these changes being phased-in beginning in 2012.  These changes transition the Federal Universal Service High-Cost Fund, which supports voice services in high-cost areas, to the CAF, which supports broadband deployment in unserved and underserved high-cost areas. CAF Phase I, implemented in 2012, provides for ongoing USF support for price cap carriers to be capped at the 2011 amount. In addition, the FCC in CAF Phase I made available for price cap ILECs an additional $300 million in incremental high cost broadband support to be used for broadband deployment to unserved areas. Frontier was eligible to receive $71.9 million of the total $300 million CAF Phase I interim support. On July 9, 2012, Frontier announced that it would accept all of the funding for which it is eligible. On July 24, 2012, Frontier formally notified the FCC and appropriate state commissions of its intent to accept those funds and identified the unserved locations to be served using the funds. The $71.9 million in incremental CAF Phase I support is expected to enable an incremental 92,877 households and will be accounted for as Contributions in Aid of Construction.  Frontier is required to implement, spend and enable these 92,877 households no later than July 24, 2015.  As of December 31, 2012, Frontier has received $66.0 million of the CAF Phase I support funds and has recorded increases to Cash and Other liabilities in the balance sheet.  The FCC is currently considering the rules for distribution of incremental CAF funding in 2013.




Federal subsidies representing interstate access support, high cost loop support and local switching support represented $160.7 million, or 3%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2012 and $154.0 million, or 3%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2011.  State subsidies represented $38.2 million, or 1%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2012 and $41.6 million, or 1%, in 2011.  Surcharges to customers (local, long distance and interconnection) to recover universal service fund contribution fees which are remitted to the FCC and recorded as an expense in “Other operating expenses”, represented $119.7 million, or 2%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2012 and $104.5 million, or 2%, in 2011.

 

Our Company and our industry will likely remain highly regulated, and we could incur substantial compliance costs that could constrain our ability to compete in our target markets.

 

As an incumbent local exchange carrier, some of the services we offer are subject to significant regulation from federal, state and local authorities.  This regulation could impact our ability to change our rates, especially on our basic voice services and our access rates, and could impose substantial compliance costs on us.  Regulation could constrain our ability to compete and, in some jurisdictions, may restrict our ability to expand our service offerings.  In addition, changes to the regulations that govern our business (including any implementation of the Order) may have an adverse effect on our business by reducing the allowable fees that we may charge, imposing additional compliance costs, reducing the amount of subsidies or otherwise changing the nature of our operations and the competition in our industry. At this time it is unknown how these regulations will affect Frontier’s operations or ability to compete in the future.  This and other FCC rulemakings and state regulatory proceedings, including those relating to intercarrier compensation, universal service and broadband services, could have a substantial adverse impact on our operations.

 

In addition, in connection with our Internet access offerings, we could become subject to laws and regulations as they are adopted or applied to the Internet.  There is currently only limited regulation applicable to these services.  As the significance of the Internet expands, federal, state and local governments may pass laws and adopt rules and regulations, or apply existing laws and regulations to the Internet (including Internet access services), and related matters are under consideration in both federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies.  We cannot predict whether the outcome of pending or future proceedings will prove beneficial or detrimental to our competitive position.

 

We may not be able to deploy the unserved locations with the CAF funds received.

 

During 2012 and early 2013, we received $71.9 million from the CAF, which supports broadband deployment in high-cost areas.  If Frontier is unable to deploy to the 92,877 unserved locations with the CAF funds received to date in accordance with the FCC rules by July 2015, then the Company would need to incur additional capital expenditures or refund a portion of the CAF received in 2012 to the FCC.

 



  



20







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

Risks Related to Technology




In the future, as competition intensifies within our markets, we may be unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of our customers, and may lose customers as a result.

 

The communications industry is subject to significant changes in technology.  If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment, we may be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the needs or expectations of our customers.  Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure could result in significant capital expenditures.

 

In addition, rapidly changing technology, enhancements to product offerings and the management of broadband speed and capacity issues may influence our customers to consider other service providers, like cable operators or wireless providers.  We may be unable to attract or retain new customers from cable companies due to their deployment of enhanced broadband and VoIP technology.  In addition, new capacity services for wireless broadband technologies may permit our competitors to offer broadband data services to our customers throughout most or all of our service areas.

 

Our Internet services could be adversely affected and we may be subject to increased costs and claims in connection with Internet and systems security and malicious Internet practices.

 

We use encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide secure transmission of confidential information, including our business data and customer information.  We also rely on employees in our network operations centers, data centers, call centers and retail stores to follow our procedures when handling such information.  Any unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional release of confidential information or other disruptions could result in increased costs, customer dissatisfaction leading to loss of customers and revenues, and fines and other liabilities.

 

In addition, our Company or our customers using our network to access the Internet may become victim to malicious and abusive Internet activities, including unsolicited mass advertising (“spam”), peer-to-peer file sharing, distribution of viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software.  These activities could adversely affect our network, result in excessive call volume at our call centers and damage our or our customers’ equipment and data.

 

Despite security measures and business continuity plans, the Company’s information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attack by hackers or breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, misappropriation of sensitive data, damage to the Company’s reputation and costly response measures, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.




Item 1B