Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

Before you make an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider all the information we have included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC.  In particular, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below and read the risks and uncertainties related to “forward-looking statements” (which we do not undertake to update) as set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this Form 10-K, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report.   The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company.  Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report.

 



  



14







  



Risks Related to Our Business

 

 We will likely face further reductions in access lines, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues and federal and state subsidy revenues, which could adversely affect us.

 

We have experienced declining access lines, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues, federal and state subsidies and related revenues because of economic conditions, increasing competition, changing consumer behavior (such as wireless displacement of wireline use, e-mail use, instant messaging and increasing use of VoIP), technology changes and regulatory constraints.  For example, Frontier’s access lines declined 8% in 2011 and 9% in 2010 on a full year pro forma basis.  In addition, Frontier’s switched access minutes of use declined 11% in 2011 and declined 14% in 2010 on a full year pro forma basis.  We will likely continue to experience reductions in the future.  The factors referred to above, among others, are likely to cause our local network service, switched network access, long distance and subsidy revenues to continue to decline, and these factors may cause our cash generated by operations to decrease.

 

We face intense competition, which could adversely affect us.

 

The communications industry is extremely competitive and competition is increasing.  The traditional dividing lines between local, long distance, wireless, cable and Internet service providers are becoming increasingly blurred.  Through mergers and various service expansion strategies, service providers are striving to provide integrated solutions both within and across geographic markets.  Our competitors include competitive local exchange carriers and other providers (or potential providers) of services, such as Internet service providers, wireless companies, VoIP providers and cable companies that may provide services competitive with the services that we offer or intend to introduce.  We also believe that wireless and cable telephony providers have increased their penetration of various services in our markets.  We expect that we will continue to lose access lines and that competition with respect to all of our products and services will increase.

 

We expect competition to intensify as a result of the entrance of new competitors, penetration of existing competitors into new markets, changing consumer behavior and the development of new technologies, products and services that can be used in substitution for our products and services.  We cannot predict which of the many possible future technologies, products or services will be important in order to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services.  Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the success of capital expenditure investments in our territories, in addition to our new marketing efforts, our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including a changing regulatory environment that may affect our business and that of our competitors differently, new services that may be introduced (including wireless broadband offerings), changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors.  Increasing competition may reduce our revenues and increase our marketing and other costs as well as require us to increase our capital expenditures and thereby decrease our cash flow.

 

Some of our competitors have superior resources, which may place us at a cost and price disadvantage.

 

Some of our competitors have market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, personnel and other resources substantially greater than ours.  In addition, some of these competitors are able to raise capital at a lower cost than we are able to.  Consequently, some of these competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we will be able to.  Additionally, the greater brand name recognition of some competitors may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to retain or obtain customers.

 

Finally, the cost advantages of some of these competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose.

 



  



15







  



We may be unable to grow our revenues and cash flows despite the initiatives we have implemented.

 

We must produce adequate revenues and cash flows that, when combined with funds available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes, fund our pension and other employee benefit obligations and pay dividends pursuant to our dividend policy.  We have identified some potential areas of opportunity and implemented several growth initiatives, including increasing marketing promotions and related expenditures and launching new products and services with a focus on areas that are growing or demonstrate meaningful demand, such as wireline and wireless HSI, satellite video products, and the Frontier Secure suite of products, which includes computer technical support.  We cannot assure you that these opportunities will be successful or that these initiatives will improve our financial position or our results of operations.

 

Weak economic conditions may decrease demand for our services or necessitate increased discounts.

 

We could be adversely impacted if current economic conditions or their effects continue.  Downturns in the economy and competition in our markets could cause some of our customers to reduce or eliminate their purchases of our basic and enhanced services, HSI and video services and make it difficult for us to obtain new customers.  In addition, if current economic conditions continue, our customers may delay or discontinue payment for our services or seek more competitive pricing from other service providers, or we may be required to offer increased discounts in order to retain our customers.

 

Disruption in our networks, infrastructure and information technology may cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses.

 

To attract and retain customers, we must provide reliable service.  Some of the risks to our networks, infrastructure and information technology include physical damage, security breaches, capacity limitations, power surges or outages, software defects and other disruptions beyond our control, such as natural disasters and acts of terrorism.  From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we experience short disruptions in our service due to factors such as cable damage, theft of our equipment, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers.  We could experience more significant disruptions in the future.  We could also face disruptions due to capacity limitations if changes in our customers’ usage patterns for our HSI services result in a significant increase in capacity utilization, such as through increased usage of video or peer-to-peer file sharing applications.  Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenues and cash flows.

 

Our business is sensitive to the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers.

 

We have substantial business relationships with other telecommunications carriers for whom we provide service.  While bankruptcies of these carriers have not had a material adverse effect on our business in recent years, future bankruptcies in the industry could result in the loss of significant customers by us, as well as cause more price competition and uncollectible accounts receivable.  Such bankruptcies may be more likely in the future if current economic conditions continue through 2012 or beyond.  As a result, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

 

A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions and is therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements; if we are unable to enter into new agreements or renew existing agreements before they expire, our workers subject to collective bargaining agreements could engage in strikes or other labor actions that could materially disrupt our ability to provide services to our customers.

 

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 15,400 active employees.  Approximately 10,000, or 65%, of these employees were represented by unions and were therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements.  Of the union represented employees as of December 31, 2011, approximately 3,100, or 31%, are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2012 and approximately 4,500, or 45%, are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2013.

 

 We cannot predict the outcome of negotiations of the collective bargaining agreements covering our employees.  If we are unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services.  New labor agreements or the renewal of existing agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.

 



  



16







  



If we are unable to hire or retain key personnel, we may be unable to operate our business successfully.

 

Our success will depend in part upon the continued services of our management.  We cannot guarantee that our key personnel will not leave or compete with us.  The loss, incapacity or unavailability for any reason of key members of our management team could have a material impact on our business.  In addition, our financial results and our ability to compete will suffer should we become unable to attract, integrate or retain other qualified personnel in the future.

 

Our efforts to integrate our legacy business and the Acquired Business may not be successful.

 

The acquisition of the Acquired Business was the largest and most significant acquisition we have undertaken.  Our management has been and will continue to be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of our legacy business and the Acquired Business, which may decrease the time management will have to serve existing customers, attract new customers and develop new services or strategies.  The size and complexity of the Acquired Business and the use of our existing common support functions and systems to manage the Acquired Business, if not managed successfully, may result in interruptions in our activities, a decrease in the quality of our services, a deterioration in our employee and customer relationships, increased costs of integration and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

 

We may not realize the growth opportunities that we anticipated from the Transaction.

 

The benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the acquisition of the Acquired Business will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities. Our success in realizing these growth opportunities and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our legacy business and operations and the Acquired Business and operations.  Even if we are able to complete the integration of the businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities that we currently expect from this integration.  Moreover, we have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the integration of our legacy business and the Acquired Business.  Through December 31, 2011, we have incurred $440.3 million in integration expenses and capital expenditures, and we anticipate that additional expenditures will be incurred in 2012 to complete the integration.  Accordingly, the benefits from the Transaction may be partially offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the businesses.

 

Regulatory authorities, in connection with their approval of the acquisition, imposed on us certain conditions relating to our capital expenditures and business operations which may adversely affect our financial performance.

 

In connection with granting their approvals of the Transaction, the FCC and certain state regulatory commissions specified certain capital expenditure and operating requirements for the acquired Territories for specified periods of time post-closing.  These requirements focus primarily on certain capital investment commitments to expand broadband availability to at least 85% of the households throughout the acquired Territories with minimum speeds of 3 megabits per second (Mbps) by the end of 2013 and 4 Mbps by the end of 2015.  To satisfy all or part of certain capital investment commitments to three state regulatory commissions, we placed an aggregate amount of $115.0 million in cash into escrow accounts and obtained a letter of credit for $190.0 million in 2010.  Another $72.4 million of cash in an escrow account (with a cash balance of $62.9 million and an associated liability of $14.3 million as of December 31, 2011) was acquired in connection with the Transaction to be used for service quality initiatives in the state of West Virginia.  As of December 31, 2011, we had a restricted cash balance in these escrow accounts in the aggregate amount of $144.7 million.  As of such date, $43.0 million had been released from escrow.  As of December 31, 2011, the letter of credit has been reduced to $100.0 million.

 

In addition, in certain states, we are subject to operating restrictions such as rate caps (including maintenance of the rates on residential and business products and the prices and terms of interconnection agreements with competitive local exchange carriers and arrangements with carriers that, in each case, existed as of the time of the acquisition), continuation of product bundle offerings that we offered before the Transaction, waiver of certain customer early termination fees and restrictions on others, restrictions on caps on usage of broadband capacity, and certain minimum service quality standards for a defined period of time (the failure of which to meet, in one state, will result in penalties, including cash management limitations on certain of our subsidiaries in that one state).  In one other state, our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the amount of dividends that can be paid to the parent company for a period ending on June 30, 2014.  We are also required to report certain financial information and adhere for a period of time to certain conditions regulating competition and consumer protection.  The foregoing conditions may restrict our ability to expend cash for other uses and to modify the operations of our business in response to changing circumstances for a period of time.

 



  



17







  



 

Most of the Acquired Business operates on systems acquired from Verizon, which are not as flexible as our legacy systems.

 

Currently, certain functions of the Acquired Business in nine states are operated on Verizon replicated information systems, which are not as flexible as ours and restrict our ability to quickly react to our customers needs.  Until such systems are fully converted, which is currently scheduled to commence in March 2012, our ability to launch new products and promotions in these acquired Territories on a timely basis may be limited, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

 

If the Transaction does not qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of Frontier, then Verizon or Verizon stockholders may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes, and we may be obligated to indemnify Verizon for such taxes imposed on Verizon or Verizon stockholders. 

 

The Transaction would be taxable to Verizon pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there is a 50% or more change in ownership of the Acquired Business, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Transaction.  Because Verizon stockholders collectively owned more than 50% of the Frontier common stock following the Transaction, the Transaction alone did not result in a tax to Verizon under Section 355(e).  However, Section 355(e) might apply if other acquisitions of stock of Frontier after the Transaction are considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off.  If Section 355(e) applies, Verizon might recognize a substantial amount of taxable gain and we may be liable to indemnify Verizon.

 

Under a tax sharing agreement, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, we are required to indemnify Verizon against taxes on the Transaction that arise as a result of actions or failures to act by us, or as a result of changes in ownership of our stock after the Transaction.  See “We will be unable to take certain actions until July 2012 because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Transaction, and such restrictions could be significant.”

 

We will be unable to take certain actions until July 2012 because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Transaction, and such restrictions could be significant.

 

The tax sharing agreement prohibits us from taking actions that could reasonably be expected to cause the Transaction to be taxable or to jeopardize the conclusions of the IRS ruling or opinions of counsel received by Verizon or Frontier.  In particular, for two years after the spin-off, or until July 2012, we may not:

 





·  


enter into any agreement, understanding or arrangement or engage in any substantial negotiations with respect to any transaction involving the acquisition, issuance, repurchase or change of ownership of Frontier capital stock, or options or other rights in respect of Frontier capital stock, subject to certain exceptions relating to employee compensation arrangements, stock splits, open market stock repurchases and stockholder rights plans;




 





·  


permit certain wholly owned subsidiaries owned by the Acquired Business at the time of the Transaction to cease the active conduct of the Acquired Business to the extent it was conducted immediately prior to the Transaction; or




 





·  


voluntarily dissolve, liquidate, merge or consolidate with any other person, unless we survive and the transaction otherwise complies with the restrictions in the tax sharing agreement.




 

Nevertheless, we will be permitted to take any of the actions described above if we obtain Verizon’s consent, or if we obtain a supplemental IRS private letter ruling (or an opinion of counsel that is reasonably acceptable to Verizon) to the effect that the action will not affect the tax-free status of the Transaction.  However, the receipt of any such consent, opinion or ruling does not relieve us of any obligation we have to indemnify Verizon for an action we take that causes the Transaction to be taxable to Verizon.

 



  



18







  



Because of these restrictions, until July 2012, we may be limited in the amount of capital stock that we can issue to make acquisitions or to raise additional capital.  Also, our indemnity obligation to Verizon may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us during this period in a transaction that the holders of our securities might consider favorable.

 

We may complete a future significant strategic transaction that may not achieve intended results or could increase the number of our outstanding shares or amount of outstanding debt or result in a change of control.

 

We continuously evaluate and may in the future enter into additional strategic transactions.  Any such transaction could happen at any time, could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, an acquisition, merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets.

 

Evaluating potential transactions and integrating completed ones may divert the attention of our management from ordinary operating matters.  The success of these potential transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies through the successful integration of the businesses we acquire with our existing business.  Even if we are successful in integrating acquired businesses, we cannot assure you that these integrations will result in the realization of the full benefit of any anticipated growth opportunities or cost synergies or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames.  In addition, acquired businesses may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies.

 

If we complete an acquisition, investment or other strategic transaction, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in the number of our outstanding shares or the aggregate amount of our debt, although there are restrictions on our ability to issue additional shares of stock for these purposes until July 2012.  See “We will be unable to take certain actions until July 2012 because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Transaction, and such restrictions could be significant.”  The number of shares of our common stock or the aggregate principal amount of our debt that we may issue may be significant.  A strategic transaction may result in a change in control of our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business.

 

Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources and Capitalization

 

If the lingering impact of the ongoing economic uncertainty continues through 2012, it may have an impact on our business and financial condition.

 

Disruption and uncertainty in the capital markets, and tightening of credit availability may continue through 2012.  This economic scenario may affect the financial health of our customers, vendors and partners, which in turn may negatively affect our revenues, operating expenses and cash flows.  In addition, we have a $750.0 million revolving credit facility.  Although we believe, based on currently available information, that the financial institutions with commitments under the revolving credit facility will be able to fulfill their commitments to us, as applicable, we cannot be certain of this in the future.

 

Volatility in asset values related to Frontier’s pension plan may require us to make contributions to fund pension plan liabilities.

 

Frontier’s pension plan assets have decreased from $1,290.3 million at December 31, 2010, to $1,258.0 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $32.3 million, or 3%.  This decrease is a result of ongoing benefit payments of $128.9 million offset by $19.9 million of positive investment returns and contributions of cash and real property of $76.7 million during 2011.  The Company expects to make contributions of approximately $60 million in 2012.  Volatility in our asset values or returns may require us to make additional contributions in future years.

 

Substantial debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us.

 

We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which amounted to approximately $8.3 billion at December 31, 2011.  We have access to a $750.0 million revolving credit facility and may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under the terms of our existing indebtedness.  Despite the substantial indebtedness that we have, we are not prohibited from incurring additional indebtedness.

 



  



19







  



The potential significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:

 





·  


limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing;




 





·  


instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness;




 





·  


the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs, capital expenditures and dividends that would otherwise improve our competitive position, results of operations or stock price;




 





·  


requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;




 





·  


compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the communications industry; and




 





·  


the possibility of our being put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who do not have as much debt as us, and competitors who may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.




 

In addition, our senior notes are rated below “investment grade” by independent ratings agencies.  This can result in higher borrowing costs for us.  We cannot assure you that these rating agencies will not lower our current debt ratings, if in the rating agencies’ judgment, such an action is appropriate.  A lowering of a rating may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.

 

We will require substantial capital to upgrade and enhance our operations.

 

The Acquired Business’ historical capital expenditures, excluding expenditures relating to the fiber-to-the-home network, were significantly lower than our level of capital expenditures for our legacy operations when compared on a per access line basis.  Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure will require significant capital expenditures, including any expected or unexpected expenditures necessary to make replacements or upgrades to the existing infrastructure of the Acquired Business.  If this capital is not available when needed or required as a result of the regulatory approval process in connection with the Transaction, our business will be adversely affected.  Responding to increases in competition, offering new services, and improving the capabilities of, or reducing the maintenance costs associated with, our plant may cause our capital expenditures to increase in the future.  Accelerated losses of access lines, the effects of increased competition, lower subsidy and access revenues and the other factors described above may reduce our cash generated by operations and may require us to increase capital expenditures.

 

We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue paying dividends.





Effective February 16, 2012, our Board of Directors set the annual cash dividend at $0.40 per share, a reduction from our prior dividend level of $0.75 per share.  However, the amount and timing of future dividend payments is subject to applicable law and will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors based on factors such as cash flow and cash requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition and other factors.




  



20







  


FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES






Risks Related to Regulation

 

Changes in federal or state regulations may reduce the switched access charge revenues we receive.

 

A significant portion of Frontier’s total revenues (approximately $319.0 million, or 6%, in 2011 and approximately $285.5 million, or 8%, in 2010) are derived from switched access charges paid by other carriers for services that Frontier legacy operations or the Acquired Business, as the case may be, provides (or provided) in originating and terminating intrastate and interstate long distance traffic.  As a result, Frontier expects a significant portion of the Company’s revenues will continue to be derived from switched access charges paid by these carriers for services that the Company will provide in originating and terminating this traffic.  The amount of switched access charge revenues that the Company will receive for these services is regulated by the FCC and state regulatory agencies.

 

On November 18, 2011, the FCC adopted the USF/ICC Report & Order.  Intercarrier Compensation, which is the payment framework that governs how carriers compensate each other for the exchange of traffic, will transition over a number of years beginning in mid-2012 to a near zero rate for terminating traffic by 2017.  Carriers will be able to recover a portion of those revenues through end user rates and other replacement support mechanisms.  Additionally, the Order requires VoIP providers to pay interstate terminating interconnection charges and requires all carriers terminating traffic to provide appropriate call information, thus prohibiting so-called “phantom traffic”.  The Order preempts the states with regard to the regulation of intrastate terminating access rates.  The reform of the Universal Service Fund shifts the existing High-Cost portion of the fund from supporting voice services to supporting broadband deployment in high-cost areas.  The USF/ICC Report & Order has been challenged by certain parties in court and certain parties have also petitioned the FCC to reconsider various aspects of the Order. Accordingly, although we believe that the USF/ICC Report & Order will provide a stable regulatory framework to facilitate Frontier’s ongoing focus on the deployment of broadband into its rural markets, Frontier cannot predict the long-term impact at this time.

 

The FCC also has an ongoing proceeding considering whether to make changes to its regulatory regime governing special access services. When and how these proposed changes will be addressed is unknown and, accordingly, Frontier cannot predict the impact of future changes on the Company’s results of operations.

 

Certain states also have their own open proceedings to address reform to intrastate access charges and other intercarrier compensation.  In addition, Frontier has been approached by, and/or is involved in formal state proceedings with, various carriers seeking reductions in intrastate access rates in certain states.  Although the FCC has pre-empted state jurisdiction on certain access charges, many states are still considering moving forward with their proceedings. Frontier cannot predict when or how these matters will be decided or the effect on the Company’s subsidy or switched access revenues.  However, future reductions in the Company’s subsidy or switched access revenues may directly affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows as those regulatory revenues do not have an equal level of associated variable expenses.




We are reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws.

 

A significant portion of Frontier’s total revenues (approximately $300.1 million in the aggregate, or 6%, in 2011 and approximately $212.3 million in the aggregate, or 6%, in 2010) are derived from federal and state subsidies for rural and high cost support, commonly referred to as universal service fund subsidies. The USF/ICC Report & Order changes how federal subsidies will be calculated and disbursed, with this change being phased in beginning in 2012.  These changes will transition the federal Universal Service High-Cost Fund, which supports voice service in high-cost areas, to the Connect America Fund (CAF), which will support broadband deployment in unserved and underserved high-cost areas.  As part of this transition, in 2012 price cap carriers will receive the same amount of support from all USF high-cost programs as in 2011.  As part of the 2012 CAF Phase I implementation, the FCC will make available for price cap ILECs an additional $300 million in interim incremental high cost broadband support for broadband deployment to unserved areas.  The FCC anticipates that it will replace this interim program with a Phase II CAF long-term solution in 2013, though the interim program may continue if no solution is put in place.  Frontier will receive a portion of the $300 million CAF Phase I interim support, although the extent is not yet known.  The USF/ICC Report and Order requires carriers receiving the interim support to deploy broadband in areas that are currently unserved based on a formula that will expect deployment to a certain number of new locations.  The exact formula is currently under reconsideration at the FCC and the outcome of that decision is not yet known.  Some states where Frontier operates continue to evaluate the manner in which they will determine state subsidy eligibility.

 



  



21







  



Federal subsidies representing interstate access support, high cost loop support and local switching support represented approximately $154.0 million, or 3%, or Frontier’s total revenues in 2011 and approximately $112.7 million, or 3%, or Frontier’s total revenues in 2010.  State subsidies represented approximately $41.6 million, or 1%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2011 and approximately $25.8 million, or less than 1%, in 2010.  Approximately $104.5 million, or 2%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2011 and approximately $73.8 million, or 2% in 2010, represent a surcharge to customers (local, long distance and interconnection) to recover universal service fund contribution fees which are remitted to the FCC and recorded as an expense in “Other operating expenses.”

 

Our Company and our industry will likely remain highly regulated, and we could incur substantial compliance costs that could constrain our ability to compete in our target markets.

 

As an incumbent local exchange carrier, some of the services we offer are subject to significant regulation from federal, state and local authorities.  This regulation could impact our ability to change our rates, especially on our basic voice services and our access rates, and could impose substantial compliance costs on us.  Regulation could constrain our ability to compete and, in some jurisdictions, may restrict our ability to expand our service offerings.  In addition, changes to the regulations that govern our business (including any implementation of the USF/ICC Report & Order) may have an adverse effect on our business by reducing the allowable fees that we may charge, imposing additional compliance costs, reducing the amount of subsidies or otherwise changing the nature of our operations and the competition in our industry. At this time it is unknown how these regulations will affect Frontier’s operations or ability to compete in the future.  This and other FCC rulemakings and state regulatory proceedings, including those relating to intercarrier compensation, universal service and broadband services, could have a substantial adverse impact on our operations.

 

In addition, in connection with our Internet access offerings, we could become subject to laws and regulations as they are adopted or applied to the Internet.  There is currently only limited regulation applicable to these services.  As the significance of the Internet expands, federal, state and local governments may pass laws and adopt rules and regulations, or apply existing laws and regulations to the Internet (including Internet access services), and related matters are under consideration in both federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies.  We cannot predict whether the outcome of pending or future proceedings will prove beneficial or detrimental to our competitive position.

 

Risks Related to Technology

 

In the future, as competition intensifies within our markets, we may be unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of our customers, and may lose customers as a result.

 

The communications industry is subject to significant changes in technology.  If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment, we may be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the needs or expectations of our customers.  Replacing or upgrading the combined infrastructure could result in significant capital expenditures.

 

In addition, rapidly changing technology in the communications industry may influence our customers to consider other service providers.  For example, we may be unable to retain customers who decide to totally replace their wireline telephone service with wireless telephone service.  We may be unable to attract or retain new customers from cable companies due to their deployment of enhanced broadband and VoIP technology.  In addition, new capacity services for wireless broadband technologies may permit our competitors to offer broadband data services to our customers throughout most or all of our service areas.

 

Our Internet services could be adversely affected and we may be subject to increased costs and claims in connection with Internet and systems security and malicious Internet practices.

 

We use encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide secure transmission of confidential information, including our business data and customer information.  We also rely on employees in our network operations centers, data centers, call centers and retail stores to follow our procedures when handling such information.  Any unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional release of confidential information or other disruptions could result in increased costs, customer dissatisfaction leading to loss of customers and revenues, and fines and other liabilities.

 



  



22







  



In addition, our Company or our customers using our network to access the Internet may become victim to malicious and abusive Internet activities, including unsolicited mass advertising (“spam”), peer-to-peer file sharing, distribution of viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software.  These activities could adversely affect our network, result in excessive call volume at our call centers and damage our or our customers’ equipment and data.

 

Item 1B