Item 1A.  Risk Factors
          ------------

Before  you invest in our  securities,  you should  carefully  consider  all the
information  we have included or  incorporated  by reference in this Form 10-K/A
and our  subsequent  periodic  filings with the SEC. In  particular,  you should
carefully  consider  the risk  factors  described  below  and read the risks and
uncertainties  related  to  "forward-looking  statements"  as set  forth  in the
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations"  section of this Form 10-K/A. The risks and uncertainties  described
below  are  not  the  only  ones  facing  our  company.   Additional  risks  and
uncertainties  that  are not  presently  known to us or that we  currently  deem
immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic  conditions,
may also adversely affect our business and operations.

Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry
- ---------------------------------------------

     We face intense competition, which could adversely affect us.

     The telecommunications industry is extremely competitive and competition is
increasing.  The  traditional  dividing  lines  between  long  distance,  local,
wireless, cable and internet services are becoming increasingly blurred. Through
mergers  and  various  service  expansion  strategies,  services  providers  are
striving  to provide  integrated  solutions  both  within and across  geographic
markets.  Our  competitors  include  CLECs and  other  providers  (or  potential
providers) of services,  such as internet service providers,  or ISPs,  wireless
companies,  neighboring  incumbents,  VOIP  providers  such as Vonage  and cable
companies that may provide  services  competitive  with ours or services that we
intend to introduce.  Competition is intense and increasing and we cannot assure
you that we will be able to compete  effectively.  For example,  at December 31,
2005 we had 102,000  fewer  access lines than we had at December 31, 2004 and we
believe wireless and cable telephony providers have increased their market share
in our markets.  We expect to continue to lose access lines and that competition
with respect to all our products and services will increase.

     We expect  competition  to  intensify  as a result of the  entrance  of new
competitors and the development of new technologies,  products and services.  We
cannot  predict  which of the many  possible  future  technologies,  products or
services  will  be  important  to  maintain  our  competitive  position  or what
expenditures  will be  required  to  develop  and  provide  these  technologies,
products  or  services.  Our  ability to  compete  successfully  will  depend on
marketing  and on our ability to anticipate  and respond to various  competitive
factors affecting the industry, including a changing regulatory environment that
may  affect  our  competitors  and us  differently,  new  services  that  may be
introduced,  changes  in  consumer  preferences,  demographic  trends,  economic
conditions and pricing  strategies by  competitors.  Increasing  competition may
reduce our revenues and increase our costs as well as require us to increase our
capital expenditures and thereby decrease our cash flow.

     Some of our competitors  have superior  resources,  which may place us at a
cost and price disadvantage.

     Some  of our  current  and  potential  competitors  have  market  presence,
engineering,  technical and marketing capabilities, and financial, personnel and
other  resources  substantially  greater  than ours.  In  addition,  some of our
competitors  can raise capital at a lower cost than we can.  Consequently,  some
competitors may be able to develop and expand their  communications  and network
infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies
and changes in customer  requirements,  take advantage of acquisition  and other
opportunities  more readily and devote  greater  resources to the  marketing and
sale of their products and services than we can. Additionally, the greater brand
name  recognition  of some  competitors  may require us to price our services at
lower  levels  in  order  to  retain  or  obtain  customers.  Finally,  the cost
advantages of some  competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices
for an extended period of time if they so choose.


                                       9


     ELI faces substantial competition for its telecommunications  services from
larger companies.

     ELI's  competitors  for  telecommunications  services are primarily  larger
incumbents,  CLECs and IXCs.  Because  it is not an  incumbent  provider,  ELI's
ability to succeed in the telecommunications  services market depends to a large
extent on its ability to provide differentiated  services for business customers
and to maintain its customer base and develop additional business customers.

     We anticipate that general pricing competition and pressures for CLECs will
increase, including ELI. We have not obtained significant market share in any of
the areas where we offer our CLEC services,  nor do we expect to do so given the
size of our ELI markets,  the intense  competition  therein and the diversity of
customer  requirements.  There  can be no  assurance  that  ELI  will be able to
compete  effectively in any of our markets.  Furthermore,  the  bankruptcies and
weakened  financial  position  of a number  of  CLECs  have  resulted  in a more
demanding  operating  environment for CLECs, as both customers and suppliers are
more concerned about each CLEC's creditworthiness.

Risks Related to Our Business
- -----------------------------

     Decreases in certain types of our revenues will impact our profitability.

     Our  Frontier  business  has  been  experiencing  declining  access  lines,
switched  access  minutes of use,  long  distance  prices and  related  revenues
because  of  economic  conditions,  increasing  competition,  changing  consumer
behavior  (such as wireless  displacement  of wireline use,  email use,  instant
messaging  and  increasing  use of  VOIP),  technology  changes  and  regulatory
constraints.  These  factors  are  likely to cause our  local  network  service,
switched  network  access,  long  distance  and subsidy  revenues to continue to
decline, and these factors, together with our increasing employee costs, and the
potential need to increase our capital spending, may cause our cash generated by
operations to decrease.

     We may be unable to grow our revenue and cash flow despite the  initiatives
we have implemented.

     We must produce adequate cash flow that, when combined with funds available
under our  revolving  credit  facility,  will be sufficient to service our debt,
fund our capital  expenditures,  pay our taxes and maintain our current dividend
policy. We have implemented several growth initiatives, including increasing our
marketing  expenditures  and launching new products and services with a focus on
areas that are  growing or  demonstrate  meaningful  demand  such as  high-speed
internet.  There is no  assurance  that  these  initiatives  will  result  in an
improvement in our financial position or our results of operations.

     We may complete a significant  business  combination  or other  transaction
that could increase our shares outstanding,  affect our debt, result in a change
in control, or both.

     From time to time we evaluate potential acquisitions and other arrangements
that would  extend our  geographic  markets,  expand our  services,  enlarge the
capacity of our networks or increase the types of services  provided through our
networks.  If we complete any acquisition or other  arrangement,  we may require
additional  financing that could result in an increase in our shares outstanding
and/or debt,  result in a change in control,  or both. There can be no assurance
that we will enter into any transaction.

     Our  business  is  sensitive  to  the  creditworthiness  of  our  wholesale
customers.

     We have substantial  business  relationships with other  telecommunications
carriers for whom we provide service.  During the past few years, several of our
customers have filed for  bankruptcy.  While these  bankruptcies  have not had a
material  adverse  effect on our business to date,  future  bankruptcies  in our
industry  could  result  in  our  loss  of  significant  customers,  more  price
competition and uncollectible accounts receivable. As a result, our revenues and
results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

                                       10


Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources, and Capitalization
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

     Substantial debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us.

     We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We may also obtain additional
long-term  debt and working  capital  lines of credit to meet  future  financing
needs,  subject to certain restrictions under our existing  indebtedness,  which
would increase our total debt.

     The  significant  negative  consequences  on our  financial  condition  and
results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:

          *    limitations  on our ability to obtain  additional  debt or equity
               financing;

          *    instances in which we are unable to meet the financial  covenants
               contained in our debt  agreements or to generate cash  sufficient
               to make  required debt  payments,  which  circumstances  have the
               potential  of  accelerating  the  maturity  of some or all of our
               outstanding indebtedness;

          *    the  allocation  of a  substantial  portion of our cash flow from
               operations  to service our debt,  thus reducing the amount of our
               cash flow  available  for  other  purposes,  including  operating
               costs,  dividends and capital expenditures that could improve our
               competitive position or results of operations;

          *    requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of
               our core assets,  possibly on unfavorable  terms, to meet payment
               obligations;

          *    compromising   our   flexibility   to  plan  for,  or  react  to,
               competitive  challenges  in our business  and the  communications
               industry; and

          *    the  possibility  of our being put at a competitive  disadvantage
               with  competitors  who  do not  have  as  much  debt  as us,  and
               competitors  who may be in a more  favorable  position  to access
               additional capital resources.

     We will require substantial capital to upgrade and enhance our operations.

     Replacing  or  upgrading  our  infrastructure  will  result in  significant
capital expenditures. If this capital is not available when needed, our business
will be adversely  affected.  Increasing  competition,  offering  new  services,
improving the  capabilities or reducing the  maintenance  costs of our plant may
cause our capital  expenditures  to increase in the  future.  In  addition,  our
ongoing annual  dividend of $1.00 per share under our current policy  utilizes a
significant portion of our cash generated by operations and therefore limits our
operating and financial  flexibility and our ability to  significantly  increase
capital  expenditures.  While we believe  that the amount of our  dividend  will
allow for adequate amounts of cash flow for capital spending and other purposes,
any material  reduction in cash  generated by  operations  and any  increases in
capital expenditures,  interest expense or cash taxes would reduce the amount of
cash  generated in excess of  dividends.  Losses of access  lines,  increases in
competition,  lower subsidy and access revenues and the other factors  described
above may reduce our cash generated by operations and may require us to increase
capital expenditures. In addition, we expect our cash paid for taxes to increase
significantly over the next several years.

Risks Related to Regulation
- ---------------------------

     The access charge revenues we receive may be reduced at any time.

     A significant  portion of our revenues is derived from access  charges paid
by IXCs for services we provide in originating  and  terminating  intrastate and
interstate  traffic.  The amount of access charge  revenues we receive for these
services is regulated by the FCC and state regulatory  agencies.  Recent rulings
regarding access charges have lowered the amount of revenue we receive from this
source.  Additional actions by these agencies could further reduce the amount of
access  revenues we receive.  In addition,  a portion of our access  revenues is
received from state and federal universal service funds based upon the high cost
of providing telephone service to certain rural areas. In the future,  there may
be  proposals  by state or federal  regulatory  agencies to  eliminate or reduce
these revenues. A material reduction in the revenues we receive from these funds
would adversely affect our financial results.


                                       11


     We are reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws.

     We receive a significant portion of our revenues from the federal universal
service fund and, to a lesser extent,  state support funds.  These  governmental
programs are reviewed  and amended from time to time,  and we cannot  assure you
that they will not be changed or impacted in a manner adverse to us.

     Our  company  and  industry  are  highly  regulated,  imposing  substantial
compliance costs and restricting our ability to compete in our target markets.

     As an incumbent,  we are subject to  significant  regulation  from federal,
state and local authorities. This regulation restricts our ability to change our
rates,  especially on our basic  services,  and imposes  substantial  compliance
costs  on  us.  Regulation  restricts  our  ability  to  compete  and,  in  some
jurisdictions,  it may restrict how we are able to expand our service offerings.
In  addition,  changes  to the  regulations  that  govern us may have an adverse
effect  upon our  business by reducing  the  allowable  fees that we may charge,
imposing  additional  compliance costs, or otherwise  changing the nature of our
operations and the competition in our industry.

     Recent rule changes now allow  customers to retain  their  wireline  number
when  switching  to another  service  provider.  This is likely to increase  the
number of our customers  who decide to  disconnect  their service from us. Other
pending  rulemakings,  including  those relating to  intercarrier  compensation,
universal service and VOIP regulations,  could have a substantial adverse impact
on our operations.

Risks Related to Technology
- ---------------------------

     In the future as  competition  intensifies  within our  markets,  we may be
unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of our customers, and may
lose customers as a result.

     The  telecommunications  industry  is  subject  to  significant  changes in
technology. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment, we will be
unable to compete  effectively  because we will not be able to meet the needs or
expectations of our customers.  Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure  could
result in significant capital expenditures.

     In addition, rapidly changing technology in the telecommunications industry
may influence our customers to consider other service providers. For example, we
may be unable to retain customers who decide to replace their wireline telephone
service with wireless telephone  service.  In addition,  VOIP technology,  which
operates on broadband  technology,  now provides our competitors with a low-cost
alternative to provide voice services to our customers.

Item 1B