Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

Before you make an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider all the information we have included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC.  In particular, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below and read the risks and uncertainties related to “forward-looking statements” (which we do not undertake to update) as set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this Form 10-K, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report.   The risks and uncerta
inties described below are not the only ones facing our company.  Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report.

 

Risks Related to Our Business

 

 We will likely face further reductions in access lines, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues and federal and state subsidy revenues, which could adversely affect us.

 

We have experienced declining access lines, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues, federal and state subsidies and related revenues because of economic conditions, increasing competition, changing consumer behavior (such as wireless displacement of wireline use, e-mail use, instant messaging and increasing use of VOIP), technology changes and regulatory constraints.  For example, Frontier’s legacy access lines declined 6% in 2010, 6% in 2009 and 7% in 2008.  In addition, Frontier’s legacy switched access minutes of use declined 12% in 2010, 12% in 2009 and 9% in 2008 (after excluding the switched access minutes added through acquisitions in 2007).  The Acquired Business’s access lines declined 5% in the second half of 2010, 12% in 2009 and 10% in 2008.  In addi
tion, the Acquired Business’s switched access minutes of use declined 11% in the second half of 2010, and declined 15% in 2009 and 10% in 2008. The factors referred to above, among others, are likely to cause our local network service, switched network access, long distance and subsidy revenues to continue to decline, and these factors may cause our cash generated by operations to decrease.

 

We face intense competition, which could adversely affect us.

 

The communications industry is extremely competitive and competition is increasing.  The traditional dividing lines between local, long distance, wireless, cable and Internet service providers are becoming increasingly blurred.  Through mergers and various service expansion strategies, service providers are striving to provide integrated solutions both within and across geographic markets.  Our competitors include competitive local exchange carriers and other providers (or potential providers) of services, such as Internet service providers, wireless companies, VOIP providers and cable companies that may provide services competitive with the services that we offer or intend to introduce.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively.  <
/font>We also believe that wireless and cable telephony providers have increased their penetration of various services in our markets.  We expect that we will continue to lose access lines and that competition with respect to all of our products and services will increase.

 



  



14







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

 

We expect competition to intensify as a result of the entrance of new competitors, penetration of existing competitors into new markets, changing consumer behavior and the development of new technologies, products and services that can be used in substitution for our products and services.  We cannot predict which of the many possible future technologies, products or services will be important in order to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services.  Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the success and cost of capital expenditure investments in our territories, including in the acquired Territories, in addition to the cost of marketing efforts, our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factor
s affecting the industry, including a changing regulatory environment that may affect our business and that of our competitors differently, new services that may be introduced (including wireless broadband offerings), changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors.  Increasing competition may reduce our revenues and increase our marketing and other costs as well as require us to increase our capital expenditures and thereby decrease our cash flow.

 

Some of our competitors have superior resources, which may place us at a cost and price disadvantage.

 

Some of our competitors have market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, personnel and other resources substantially greater than ours.  In addition, some of these competitors are able to raise capital at a lower cost than we are able to.  Consequently, some of these competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we will be able to.  Additionally, the greater brand name recognition of some competitors may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to
 retain or obtain customers.

 

Finally, the cost advantages of some of these competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose.

 

We may be unable to grow our revenues and cash flows despite the initiatives we have implemented.

 

We must produce adequate revenues and cash flows that, when combined with funds available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes, fund our pension and other employee benefit obligations and pay dividends pursuant to our dividend policy.  We have identified some potential areas of opportunity and implemented several growth initiatives, including increasing marketing promotions and related expenditures and launching new products and services with a focus on areas that are growing or demonstrate meaningful demand, such as wireline and wireless HSI, satellite video products and the “Frontier Peace of Mind” suite of products, which includes computer technical support.  We cannot assure you that these opportunities will be succ
essful or that these initiatives will improve our financial position or our results of operations.

 

Weak economic conditions may decrease demand for our services.

 

We could be sensitive to the ongoing economic uncertainty if current economic conditions or their effects continue.  Downturns in the economy and competition in our markets could cause some of our customers to reduce or eliminate their purchases of our basic and enhanced services, HSI and video services and make it difficult for us to obtain new customers.  In addition, if current economic conditions continue, our customers may delay or discontinue payment for our services or seek more competitive pricing from other service providers.

 

Disruption in our networks, infrastructure and information technology may cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses.

 

To attract and retain customers, we must provide customers with reliable service.  Some of the risks to our networks, infrastructure and information technology include physical damage, security breaches, capacity limitations, power surges or outages, software defects and other disruptions beyond our control, such as natural disasters and acts of terrorism.  From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we experience short disruptions in our service due to factors such as cable damage, theft of our equipment, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers.  We could experience more significant disruptions in the future.  We could also face disruptions due to capacity limitations if changes in our customers’ usage patterns for its HSI services result in a
 significant increase in capacity utilization, such as through increased usage of video or peer-to-peer file sharing applications.  Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenues and cash flows.

 



  



15







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

 

Our business is sensitive to the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers.

 

We have substantial business relationships with other telecommunications carriers for whom we provide service.  While bankruptcies of these carriers have not had a material adverse effect on our legacy business or the Acquired Business in recent years, future bankruptcies in the industry could result in the loss of significant customers by us, as well as cause more price competition and uncollectible accounts receivable.  Such bankruptcies may be more likely in the future if current economic conditions continue through 2011 or beyond.  As a result, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

 

A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions and is therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements; if we are unable to enter into new agreements or renew existing agreements before they expire, our workers subject to collective bargaining agreements could engage in strikes or other labor actions that could materially disrupt our ability to provide services to our customers.

 

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 14,800 active employees.  Approximately 9,500, or 64%, of these employees were represented by unions and were therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements.  Of the union represented employees as of December 31, 2010, approximately 2,300, or 24%, were subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2011 and approximately 2,800, or 29%, were subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2012.

 

 We cannot predict the outcome of negotiations of the collective bargaining agreements covering our employees.  If we are unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services.  New labor agreements or the renewal of existing agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.

 

If we are unable to hire or retain key personnel, we may be unable to operate our business successfully.

 

Our success will depend in part upon the continued services of our management.  We cannot guarantee that our personnel will not leave or compete with us.  The loss, incapacity or unavailability for any reason of key members of our management team could have a material impact on our business.  In addition, our financial results and our ability to compete will suffer should we become unable to attract, integrate or retain other qualified personnel in the future.

 

A significant portion of our work force is eligible for retirement.

 

As of December 31, 2010, approximately 2,750, or 19%, of our approximately 14,800 active employees were retirement eligible.  If a substantial portion of these employees were to retire and could not be replaced (and, if necessary, their replacements could not be trained promptly), our customer service could be negatively impacted, which could have a material impact on our operations and financial results.

 

Our efforts to integrate our legacy business and the Acquired Business may not be successful.

 

The acquisition of the Acquired Business was the largest and most significant acquisition we have undertaken.  Our management has been and will continue to be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of our legacy business and the Acquired Business, which may decrease the time it will have to serve existing customers, attract new customers and develop new services or strategies.  The size and complexity of the Acquired Business and the use of our existing common support functions and systems to manage the Acquired Business, if not managed successfully, may result in interruptions in our activities, a decrease in the quality of our services, a deterioration in our employee and customer relationships, increased costs of in
tegration and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

 



  



16







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

 

We may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we anticipated from the acquisition.

 

The benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the acquisition of the Acquired Business will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies.  Our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our legacy business and operations and the Acquired Business and operations.  Even if we are able to integrate the businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we currently expect from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all.  For example, we may be unable
 to eliminate all of the duplicative costs we expect to eliminate.  Moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of our legacy business and the Acquired Business.  Through December 31, 2010, we have incurred $165.5 million in integration and deal expenses and anticipate that additional expenses will be incurred.  However, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately. Accordingly, the benefits from the merger may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the businesses.

 

Regulatory authorities, in connection with their approval of the acquisition, imposed on us certain conditions relating to our capital expenditures and business operations which may adversely affect our financial performance.

 

In connection with their approvals of the Transaction, the FCC and certain state regulatory commissions specified certain capital expenditure and operating requirements for our business for specified periods of time post-closing.  These requirements focus primarily on certain capital investment commitments to expand broadband availability and speeds to at least 85% of the households throughout the acquired Territories with minimum speeds of 3 megabits per second (Mbps) by the end of 2013 and 4 Mbps by the end of 2015.  To satisfy all or part of certain capital investment commitments to three state regulatory commissions, we placed an aggregate amount of $115.0 million in cash into escrow accounts and obtained a letter of credit for $190.0 million.  Another $72.4 million of cash in an escrow account, with 
an associated liability was acquired in connection with the acquisition to be used for service quality initiatives in the state of West Virginia.  As of December 31, 2010, we had a restricted cash balance in these escrow accounts in the aggregate amount of $187.5 million.  The aggregate amounts of these escrow accounts and the letter of credit will decrease over time as we incur the defined capital expenditures in the respective states.

 

In addition, in certain states, we are subject to operating restrictions such as rate caps (including maintenance of the rates on residential and business products and the prices and terms of interconnection agreements with competitive local exchange carriers and arrangements with carriers that, in each case, existed as of the time of the acquisition), continuation of product bundle offerings that we offered before the Transaction, waiver of certain customer early termination fees and restrictions on others, restrictions on caps on usage of broadband capacity, and certain minimum service quality standards for a defined period of time (the failure of which to meet, in one state, will result in penalties, including cash management limitations on certain of our subsidiaries in that one stat
e).  In one other state, our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the amount of dividends up to the parent company for a period of approximately four years.  We are also required to report certain financial information and adhere for a period of time to certain conditions regulating competition and consumer protection.

 

The foregoing conditions may restrict our ability to expend cash for other uses and to modify the operations of our business in response to changing circumstances for a period of time.

 

Most of the Acquired Business operates on systems acquired from Verizon, which are not as flexible as our legacy systems.

 

Effective with the closing of the Transaction, the Acquired Business (other than in West Virginia) has been operating on Verizon replicated information systems, which are not as flexible as ours and restrict our ability to quickly react to our customers needs.  Until such systems are converted, which is currently scheduled to be completed by the end of 2012, our ability to launch new products and promotions in the acquired Territories on a timely basis may be limited, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

 



  



17







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

 

If the Transaction does not qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of Frontier, then Verizon or Verizon stockholders may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes, and we may be obligated to indemnify Verizon for such taxes imposed on Verizon or Verizon stockholders. 

 

The Transaction would be taxable to Verizon pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there is a 50% or more change in ownership of the Acquired Business, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Transaction.  Because Verizon stockholders collectively owned more than 50% of the Frontier common stock following the Merger, the Merger alone did not cause the Transaction to be taxable to Verizon under Section 355(e).  However, Section 355(e) might apply if other acquisitions of stock of Frontier after the Merger are considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off.  If  Section 355(e) applies, Verizon might recognize a substantial amount of taxable gain.

 

Under a tax sharing agreement, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, we are required to indemnify Verizon against taxes on the Transaction that arise as a result of actions or failures to act by us, or as a result of changes in ownership of our stock after the merger.  See “The Company will be unable to take certain actions until July 2012 because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Merger, and such restrictions could be significant.”

 

We will be unable to take certain actions until July 2012 because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Merger, and such restrictions could be significant.

 

The tax sharing agreement prohibits us from taking actions that could reasonably be expected to cause the Merger to be taxable or to jeopardize the conclusions of the IRS ruling or opinions of counsel received by Verizon or Frontier.  In particular, for two years after the spin-off, or until July 2012, we may not:

 





·  


enter into any agreement, understanding or arrangement or engage in any substantial negotiations with respect to any transaction involving the acquisition, issuance, repurchase or change of ownership of Frontier capital stock, or options or other rights in respect of Frontier capital stock, subject to certain exceptions relating to employee compensation arrangements, stock splits, open market stock repurchases and stockholder rights plans;




 





·  


permit certain wholly owned subsidiaries owned by the Acquired Business at the time of the Merger to cease the active conduct of the Acquired Business to the extent it was conducted immediately prior to the Merger; or




 





·  


voluntarily dissolve, liquidate, merge or consolidate with any other person, unless we survive and the transaction otherwise complies with the restrictions in the tax sharing agreement.




 

Nevertheless, we will be permitted to take any of the actions described above if we obtain Verizon’s consent, or if we obtain a supplemental IRS private letter ruling (or an opinion of counsel that is reasonably acceptable to Verizon) to the effect that the action will not affect the tax-free status of the Merger.  However, the receipt of any such consent, opinion or ruling does not relieve us of any obligation we have to indemnify Verizon for an action we take that causes the Transaction to be taxable to Verizon.

 

Because of these restrictions, until July 2012, we may be limited in the amount of capital stock that we can issue to make acquisitions or to raise additional capital.  Also, our indemnity obligation to Verizon may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us during this period in a transaction that the holders of our securities might consider favorable.

 

We may complete a future significant strategic transaction that may not achieve intended results or could increase the number of our outstanding shares or amount of outstanding debt or result in a change of control.

 

We continuously evaluate and may in the future enter into additional strategic transactions.  Any such transaction could happen at any time, could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, an acquisition, merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets.

 

Evaluating potential transactions and integrating completed ones may divert the attention of our management from ordinary operating matters.  The success of these potential transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies through the successful integration of the businesses we acquire with our existing business.  Even if we are successful in integrating acquired businesses, we cannot assure you that these integrations will result in the realization of the full benefit of any anticipated growth opportunities or cost synergies or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames.  In addition, acquired businesses may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies.

 



  



18







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

 

If we complete an acquisition, investment or other strategic transaction, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in the number of our outstanding shares or the aggregate amount of our debt, although there are restrictions on our ability to issue additional shares of stock for these purposes until July 2012.  See “We will be unable to take certain actions until July 2012 because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-off or the merger, and such restrictions could be significant.”  The number of shares of our common stock or the aggregate principal amount of our debt that we may issue may be significant.  A strategic transaction may result in a change in control of our company or otherwise materially and ad
versely affect our business.

 

Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources and Capitalization

 

If the lingering impact of the ongoing economic uncertainty continues through 2011, it may have an impact on our business and financial condition.

 

Disruption and uncertainty in the capital markets, and tightening of credit availability may continue through 2011.  This economic scenario may affect the financial health of our customers, vendors and partners, which in turn may negatively affect our revenues, operating expenses and cash flows.  In addition, we have a $750.0 million revolving credit facility.  Although we believe, based on currently available information, that the financial institutions with commitments under the revolving credit facility will be able to fulfill their commitments to us, as applicable, future adverse economic conditions could prevent them from doing so.

 

Volatility in asset values related to Frontier’s pension plan and our assumption of the Acquired Business’ pension plan obligations may require us to make cash contributions to fund pension plan liabilities.

 

During 2008 and 2009, the diminished availability of credit and liquidity in the United States and throughout the global financial system resulted in substantial volatility in financial markets and the banking system.  These and other economic events have had an adverse impact on investment portfolios.  Frontier’s pension plan assets have increased from $608.6 million at December 31, 2009, to $1,290.3 million at December 31, 2010, an increase of $681.7 million, or 112%.  This increase is a result of asset transfers from the Verizon pension plan trusts of $581.3 million (including a receivable of $142.5 million as of December 31, 2010), less ongoing benefit payments of $67.3 million, offset by $154.6 million of positive investment returns and cash contributions of $13.1 million during 2010. 
0;As a result of the continued accrual of pension benefits under the applicable pension plan and the cumulative negative investment returns arising from the contraction of the global financial markets, Frontier’s pension expenses increased in 2009 and 2010 as compared to 2008.  While pension asset values increased in 2010, Frontier made cash contributions to its pension plan of $13.1 million in 2010, and expects to make cash contributions of approximately $50 million in 2011.  Further volatility in our asset values or returns may require us to make additional cash contributions in future years.

 

Substantial debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us.

 

We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which amounted to approximately $8.3 billion at December 31, 2010.  We have access to a $750.0 million revolving credit facility and may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under the terms of our existing indebtedness, which would increase our total debt.  Despite the substantial indebtedness that we have, we are not prohibited from incurring additional indebtedness.

 

The potential significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:

 





·  


limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing;




 





·  


instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness;




 





·  


the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs, capital expenditures and dividends that could improve our competitive position, results of operations or stock price;




 





·  


requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;




 





·  


compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the communications industry; and




 





·  


the possibility of our being put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who do not have as much debt as us, and competitors who may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.




 



  



19







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

 

We will require substantial capital to upgrade and enhance our operations.

 

The Acquired Business’ historical capital expenditures, excluding expenditures relating to the fiber-to-the-home network, were significantly lower than our level of capital expenditures for our legacy operations when compared on a per access line basis.  Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure will require significant capital expenditures, including any expected or unexpected expenditures necessary to make replacements or upgrades to the existing infrastructure of the Acquired Business.  If this capital is not available when needed or required as a result of the regulatory approval process in connection with the Transaction, our business will 
be adversely affected.  Responding to increases in competition, offering new services, and improving the capabilities of, or reducing the maintenance costs associated with, our plant may cause our capital expenditures to increase in the future.  In addition, our dividend, at an annual rate of $0.75 per share as of July 1, 2010, will utilize a significant portion of our cash generated by operations and therefore could limit our ability to increase capital expenditures significantly.  While we believe that our anticipated cash flows will be adequate to maintain this dividend policy while allowing for appropriate capital spending and other purposes, any material reduction in cash generated by operations and any increases in planned capital expenditures, interest expense or cash taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for further capital expenditures and payment of dividends.  Accelerated losses of access lines, the effects of increased competition, lower subsidy a
nd access revenues and the other factors described above may reduce our cash generated by operations and may require us to increase capital expenditures.

 

Risks Related to Regulation

 

Changes in federal or state regulations may reduce the switched access charge revenues we receive.

 

A significant portion of Frontier’s total revenues (approximately $285.5 million, or 8%, in 2010 and $246.3 million, or 12%, in 2009), including a significant portion of Frontier legacy revenues (approximately $213.9 million, or 10%, in 2010) and a significant portion of the Acquired Business’ revenues (approximately $71.7 million, or 4%, for the second half of 2010) are derived from switched access charges paid by other carriers for services Frontier legacy operations or the Acquired Business, as the case may be, provides (or provided) in originating and terminating intrastate and interstate long distance traffic.  As a result, Frontier expects a significant portion of the Company’s revenues will continue to be derived from access ch
arges paid by these carriers for services that the Company will provide in originating and terminating this traffic.  The amount of switched access charge revenues that the Company will receive for these services is regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (the FCC) and state regulatory agencies.

 

The FCC is considering proposals that may significantly change interstate, intrastate and local intercarrier compensation.  On March 16, 2010, an FCC staff team issued its National Broadband Plan that recommends changes to the existing rate structure used for intercarrier charges. On February 8, 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on Intercarrier Compensation and Universal Service reforms. The FCC also has an ongoing proceeding considering whether to make changes to its regulatory regime governing special access services. When and how these proposed changes will be addressed is unknown and, accordingly, Frontier cannot predict the impact of future changes on the Company’s results of operations.

 

Certain states also have open proceedings to address reform to access charges and other intercarrier compensation.  In addition, Frontier has been approached by, and is currently involved in formal state proceedings with, various carriers seeking reductions in intrastate access rates in certain states.  Certain of those claims have led to formal complaints to the applicable state regulatory agencies.  Frontier cannot predict when or how these matters will be decided or the effect on the Company’s subsidy or access revenues.  However, future reductions in the Company’s access revenues will directly affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows as those regulatory revenues do not have the same level of associated variable expenses.

 



  



20







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

 

We are reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws.

 

A significant portion of Frontier’s total revenues (approximately $212.3 million in the aggregate, or 6%, in 2010 and $113.3 million in the aggregate, or 5%, in 2009), including a significant portion of Frontier legacy revenues (approximately $114.0 million, or 6%, in 2010) and a significant portion of the Acquired Business’ revenues (approximately $98.3 million, or 6%, for the second half of 2010) are derived from federal and state subsidies for rural and high cost support, commonly referred to as universal service fund subsidies. The FCC and state regulatory agencies are currently considering a number of proposals for changing the manner in which eligibility for federal and state subsidies are determined as well as the amounts of such subsidies.
60; The National Broadband Plan recommends changes to the existing federal high cost subsidy programs. On February 8, 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on Universal Service and Intercarrier Compensation reforms.  Frontier cannot predict whether or when the FCC will take additional actions or the effect of any such actions on the Company’s subsidy revenues.

 

Federal subsidies representing interstate access support, high cost loop support and local switching support represented approximately $112.7 million, or 3%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2010, including approximately $63.6 million, or 3%, in 2010 of Frontier legacy revenues and approximately $49.1 million, or 3%, of the Acquired Business’ revenues for the second half of 2010.  Frontier currently expects that as a result of both an increase in the national average cost per loop and a decrease in Frontier’s and the Acquired Business’s cost structure, there will be a decrease in the subsidy revenues Frontier will receive in 2011 through the Federal High Cost Loop Fund.  The amount of federal interstate access support f
unds received may also decline as that fund is also subject to a national cap and the amounts allocated among carriers within that cap can vary from year to year.  State subsidies represented approximately $25.8 million, or less than 1%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2010, including approximately $9.3 million of Frontier legacy revenues and approximately $16.5 million of the Acquired Business’ revenues for the second half of 2010.  Approximately $73.8 million, or 2%, of Frontier’s 2010 total revenues, including approximately $41.1 million of Frontier legacy revenues and approximately $32.7 million of the Acquired Business’ revenues for the second half of 2010, represent a surcharge to customers (local, long distance and interconnection) to recover universal service fund contribution fees which are remitted to the FCC and recorded as an expense in “
Other operating expenses.” 

 

We and our industry will likely remain highly regulated, and we could incur substantial compliance costs that could constrain our ability to compete in our target markets.

 

As an incumbent local exchange carrier, some of the services we offer are subject to significant regulation from federal, state and local authorities.  This regulation could impact our ability to change our rates, especially on our basic voice services and our access rates, and could impose substantial compliance costs on us.  Regulation could constrain our ability to compete and, in some jurisdictions, may restrict our ability to expand our service offerings.  In addition, changes to the regulations that govern our business (including any implementation of the National Broadband Plan) may have an adverse effect on our business by reducing the allowable fees that we may charge, imposing additional compliance costs, reducing the amount of subsidies or otherwise changing
 the nature of our operations and the competition in our industry. On December 21, 2010, the FCC adopted a Report and Order designed to ensure an open internet for consumers.  The order adopts different regulations governing how fixed and mobile broadband access providers must allow edge content providers access across broadband networks and also mandates additional transparency disclosures on how broadband access providers manage their networks.  At this time it is unknown how these regulations will affect Frontier’s operations or ability to compete in the future.  This and other FCC rulemakings and state regulatory proceedings, including those relating to intercarrier compensation, universal service and broadband services, could have a substantial adverse impact on our operations.

 



  



21







  





FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



 

 

Risks Related to Technology

 

In the future, as competition intensifies within our markets, we may be unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of our customers, and may lose customers as a result.

 

The communications industry is subject to significant changes in technology.  If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment, we may be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the needs or expectations of our customers.  Replacing or upgrading the combined infrastructure could result in significant capital expenditures.

 

In addition, rapidly changing technology in the communications industry may influence our customers to consider other service providers.  For example, we may be unable to retain customers who decide to totally replace their wireline telephone service with wireless telephone service.  We may be unable to attract or retain new customers from cable companies due to their deployment of enhanced broadband and VOIP technology.  In addition, new capacity services for wireless broadband technologies may permit our competitors to offer broadband data services to our customers throughout most or all of our service areas.

 

Item 1B