Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” in evaluating any statement in this report or otherwise made by us or on our behalf. We have no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements and do not undertake to do so.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Investors should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.
		
		

		
		 

		

			14

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		
		
		
			 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Item 1A.  Risk Factors    
		
		
			 
		
		
			Before you make an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider all the information we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC.  In particular, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below and the risks and uncertainties related to “Forward-Looking Statements,” any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report.   The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Frontier.  Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the balance of this annual report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Risks Related to the Verizon Transaction
		
		
			 
		
		
			We may not consummate the Verizon Transaction on the terms or timeline currently contemplated or at all.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The consummation of the Verizon Transaction is subject to certain conditions, including (i) the absence of a court or other governmental order prohibiting consummation of the transaction, (ii) the absence of a material adverse effect on the business to be acquired from Verizon and (iii) other customary closing conditions. We can make no assurances that the Verizon Transaction will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all. We have expended and will continue to expend a significant amount of capital and management’s time and resources on the Verizon Transaction, and a failure to consummate the Verizon Transaction as currently contemplated could have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our cash flows and could adversely affect the trading price of our securities. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs related to the Verizon Transaction, such as legal, accounting, filing, financial advisory, and integration costs. In addition, we consummated the financing for the Verizon Transaction prior to the closing of such transaction. If the Verizon Transaction is ultimately not consummated or is delayed for a significant period of time, we will have paid additional dividends, significant interest expense and other costs in connection with the financings, and we may be obligated to repurchase the unsecured senior notes issued in September 2015, without achieving the expected benefits of the Verizon Transaction.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our effort to combine our business and the business to be acquired from Verizon may not be successful.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We are devoting a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of our business and the business to be acquired from Verizon, which may decrease the time that management will have to serve existing customers, attract new customers and develop new services or strategies. The size and complexity of the acquired business and the process of using our existing common support functions and systems to manage the acquired business after the acquisition, if not managed and completed successfully by management, may result in interruptions of our business activities that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, following the consummation of the Verizon Transaction we will be assuming certain known and currently unknown liabilities and obligations of the business we are acquiring from Verizon, including with respect to litigation and regulatory matters, the outcome of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations if determined adversely to us following the consummation of the Verizon Transaction.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We may not realize the cost synergies that are anticipated from the Verizon Transaction.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The success of the Verizon Transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost synergies.  Frontier’s success in realizing these cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depend on the successful integration of our business and operations with the acquired business and operations.  Even if Frontier is able to integrate the acquired businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost synergies that Frontier currently expects within the anticipated time frame or at all.
		
		
			 
		
		
			If the assets included in the business to be purchased from Verizon are insufficient to operate the acquired business, it could adversely affect Frontier’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Pursuant to the securities purchase agreement executed in connection with the Verizon Transaction, we will acquire assets and liabilities of Verizon’s local exchange business and related landline activities in California, Florida and Texas, including video, broadband internet and switched long distance services provided to designated customers located in those 
		
		 

		

			15

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		states.  However, these assets may not be sufficient to operate all aspects of the acquired business and we may have to use assets or resources from our existing business or acquire additional assets in order to operate the acquired business, which could cost us more than we anticipate.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Frontier’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected following consummation of the Verizon Transaction if Frontier is not able to obtain requisite consents or enter into certain agreements.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The products and services of the acquired business are currently provided by Verizon to some customers pursuant to master agreements, together with other Verizon products or services.  Pursuant to the securities purchase agreement, we and Verizon have jointly agreed to use our reasonable best efforts for six months following the consummation of the Verizon Transaction to obtain any consents required to separate from such master agreements and assign to Frontier the portion thereof related to the acquired business.  To the extent that the parties are not able to obtain any such required consent, such contracts will not be assigned to us and we may not be able to establish a direct relationship with such customers.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our stock price may be adversely affected if we are unable to consummate the Verizon Transaction.
		
		
			 
		
		
			If the Verizon Transaction is not completed for any reason, the trading price of Frontier’s common and preferred stock may decline to the extent that the market price of the stock reflects positive market assumptions that the Verizon Transaction will be completed and the related benefits will be realized.  
		
		
			 
		
		
			The pendency of the Verizon Transaction could adversely affect the business and operations of Frontier and the acquired business.
		
		
			 
		
		
			In connection with the pending Verizon Transaction, some customers of the acquired business may delay or defer decisions or may end their relationships with Verizon prior to completion of the Verizon Transaction or with Frontier after the Verizon Transaction closes.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Risks Related to Our Business 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We will likely face further reductions in voice customers, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues and subsidy revenues. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We have experienced declining voice customers, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues, federal and state subsidies and related revenues because of economic conditions, increasing competition, changing technology and consumer behavior (such as wireless displacement of wireline use, e-mail use, instant messaging and increasing use of VoIP), technology and regulatory constraints.  We will likely continue to experience further reductions in the future.  These factors, among others, are likely to cause our local network service, switched network access, long distance and subsidy revenues to continue to decline, and these factors may cause our cash generated by operations to decrease.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We face intense competition. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			The communications industry is extremely competitive. Through mergers and various service expansion strategies, service providers are striving to provide integrated solutions both within and across geographic markets.  Our competitors include competitive local exchange carriers, Internet service providers, wireless companies, VoIP providers and cable companies, some of which may be subject to less regulation than we are, that may provide services competitive with the services that we offer or intend to introduce.  We also believe that wireless and cable telephony providers have increased their penetration of various services in our markets.  We expect that competition will remain robust.  Our revenue and cash flow will be adversely impacted if we cannot reverse our customer losses or continue to provide high-quality services.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We cannot predict which of the many possible future technologies, products or services will be important in order to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services.  Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the success of capital expenditure investments in our properties, in addition to our new marketing efforts, our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including a changing regulatory environment that may affect our business and that of our competitors differently, new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors.  Increasing competition may reduce our revenues and increase our marketing and other costs as well as require us to increase our capital expenditures and thereby decrease our cash flows. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Some of our competitors have superior resources, which may place us at a cost and price disadvantage. 
		
		

		
		 

		

			16

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		Some of our competitors have market presence, engineering, technical, marketing and financial capabilities, substantially greater than ours.  In addition, some of these competitors are able to raise capital at a lower cost than we are able to. Consequently, some of these competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we will be able to.  Additionally, the greater brand name recognition of some competitors may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to retain or obtain customers. Finally, the cost advantages of some of these competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely impacted if we are not able to effectively compete.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We may be unable to stabilize or grow our revenues and cash flows despite the initiatives we have implemented. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We must produce adequate revenues and cash flows that, when combined with cash on hand and funds available under our revolving credit facility and other financings, will be sufficient to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes, fund our pension and other employee benefit obligations and pay dividends pursuant to our dividend policy.  We have experienced revenue declines in 2015 and 2014 as compared to prior years for our Frontier legacy operations, and our recently acquired Connecticut operations have experienced similar revenue declines. While we have identified potential areas of opportunity and implemented several revenue initiatives, we cannot assure you that these opportunities will be successful or that these initiatives will improve our financial position or our results of operations. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Weak economic conditions may decrease demand for our services or necessitate increased discounts. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We could be adversely impacted by weak economic conditions or their effects.  Downturns in the economy and competition in our markets could cause some of our customers to reduce or eliminate their purchases of our basic and enhanced voice services, broadband and video services and make it difficult for us to obtain new customers or retain existing customers.  In addition, if economic conditions are depressed or further deteriorate, our customers may delay or discontinue payment for our services or seek more competitive pricing from other service providers, or we may be required to offer increased discounts in order to retain our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Disruption in our networks, infrastructure and information technology may cause us to lose customers and/or incur additional expenses.
		
		
			 
		
		
			To attract and retain customers, we must provide reliable service.  Some of the risks to our networks, infrastructure and information technology include physical damage, security breaches, capacity limitations, power surges or outages, software defects and other disruptions beyond our control, such as natural disasters and acts of terrorism.  From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we experience short disruptions in our service due to factors such as cable damage, theft of our equipment, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers.  We could experience more significant disruptions in the future.  We could also face disruptions due to capacity limitations if changes in our customers’ usage patterns for our broadband services result in a significant increase in capacity utilization, such as through increased usage of video or peer-to-peer file sharing applications.  Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur additional expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenues and cash flows. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our business is sensitive to the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We have substantial business relationships with other communications carriers for whom we provide service.  While bankruptcies of these carriers have not had a material adverse effect on our business in recent years, future bankruptcies in the industry could result in the loss of significant customers, as well as cause more price competition and an increased allowance for doubtful accounts receivable.  Such bankruptcies may be more likely in the future if economic conditions stagnate.  As a result, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 19,200 employees. Approximately 17,500 of our total employees were represented by unions and were subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 1,350 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements that expired in 2015, but have been extended and are still effective for 2016. Of the union-represented employees as of December 31, 2015, approximately 2,200, or 13%, of the unionized workforce are covered by collective agreements that expire in 2016 and approximately 3,700, or 21%, of the unionized workforce are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2017. 
		
		
			 
		
		

		
		 

		

			17

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		We cannot predict the outcome of negotiations of the collective bargaining agreements covering our employees.  If we are unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services.  New labor agreements or the renewal of existing agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			If we are unable to hire or retain key personnel, we may be unable to operate our business successfully. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our success will depend in part upon the continued services of our management.  We cannot guarantee that our key personnel will not leave or compete with us.  The loss, incapacity or unavailability for any reason of key members of our management team could have a material impact on our business.  In addition, our financial results and our ability to compete will suffer if we are unable to attract, integrate or retain other qualified personnel in the future. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We may complete a future significant strategic transaction that may not achieve intended results or could increase the number of our outstanding shares or amount of outstanding debt. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We continuously evaluate and may in the future enter into additional strategic transactions, such as the Verizon Transaction. Any such transaction could happen at any time, could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, an acquisition, merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Evaluating potential transactions and integrating completed ones may divert the attention of our management from ordinary operating matters.  The success of these potential transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies through the successful integration of the businesses we acquire with our existing business.  Even if we are successful in integrating acquired businesses, we cannot assure you that these integrations will result in the realization of the full benefit of any anticipated growth opportunities or cost synergies or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames.  In addition, acquired businesses may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			If we complete an acquisition, investment or other strategic transaction, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in the number of our outstanding shares of stock or the aggregate amount and/or cost of our debt, which may result in an adverse impact to our ratings.  The number of shares of our stock or the aggregate principal amount of our debt that we may issue may be significant, such as for the Verizon Transaction.  Moreover, the terms of any debt financing may be expensive or adversely impact our results of operations. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources and Capitalization
		
		
			 
		
		
			Volatility in asset values related to Frontier’s pension plan and/or changes in pension plan assumptions may require us to make additional unanticipated contributions to fund pension plan liabilities.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Frontier made cash contributions of $62 million and $83 million to its pension plan in 2015 and 2014, respectively.  Volatility in our asset values, liability calculations, or returns may require us to make additional contributions in future years. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We currently have a significant amount of indebtedness and we may still be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. Such debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which amounted to $16.1 billion at December 31, 2015. In addition, we expect to draw $1.5 billion under the August 2015 senior secured delayed-draw term loan facility at the closing of the Verizon Transaction.  We also have access to a $750 million Revolving Credit Facility, which is currently undrawn.  Entities that we will be acquiring in the Verizon Transaction have outstanding long-term debt securities, in the aggregate principal amount of $600 million, maturing between 2027 and 2031.  As part of the purchase price of the Verizon Transaction, those debt securities will remain obligations of such entities post-closing.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The terms of our indentures and credit facilities allow us to incur substantial additional indebtedness and/or liens in the future. Also, these terms do not prevent us or our restricted subsidiaries from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with our senior notes and debentures, the holders of that new debt will be entitled to share ratably with holders of our senior notes and debentures in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of Frontier. If any such 
		
		 

		

			18

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		additional indebtedness is secured, it will be effectively senior to our unsecured senior notes and debentures to the extent of the collateral securing such indebtedness. This may have the effect of reducing the probability of payment, or the amount of proceeds paid, to holders of our senior notes and debentures.  
		
		
			 
		
		
			In addition, to the extent other new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described below would increase.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The potential significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:
		
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms or at all;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			instances in which we are unable to meet the covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs, capital expenditures and dividends that would otherwise improve our competitive position, results of operations or stock price;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the telecommunications industry; and
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			the possibility of our being put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who do not have as much debt as we do, and competitors who may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.
		
			 
		
		
			In addition, our senior notes and debentures are rated below “investment grade” by independent ratings agencies. This can result in higher borrowing costs for us. We cannot assure you that these rating agencies will not lower our current debt ratings, if in the rating agencies’ judgment such an action is appropriate.  A lowering of a rating may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The agreements governing our debt, including our senior notes and debentures and our credit facilities, contain  covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries that may affect our ability to operate our business, make payments on our debt, and pay dividends.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The supplemental indentures governing our senior notes issued in September 2015 and the agreements governing our other existing indebtedness contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to:
		
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			incur additional indebtedness, guarantee indebtedness or issue preferred stock;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			create liens;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			enter into mergers, consolidations, or transfer or sell all or substantially all of our assets;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			pay dividends on, or make distributions in respect of, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock, make certain investments or make other restricted payments;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			make certain asset sales;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			enter into agreements that might prevent certain of our subsidiaries from making distributions, loans or advances to us or other subsidiaries; and
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			engage in transactions with affiliates.
		
			 
		
		
			In addition, our credit facilities require us to comply with specified covenants, including financial ratios. Any future indebtedness may also require us to comply with similar or other covenants. These restrictions on our ability to operate our 
		
		 

		

			19

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity for the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Frontier is a holding company and, as a result, we rely on the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries in order to meet our cash needs and service our indebtedness, including our senior notes and debentures.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Frontier is a holding company and its principal assets consist of the shares of capital stock or other equity instruments of its subsidiaries. As a holding company without independent means of generating operating revenues, we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, including those arising under our senior notes and debentures, and meet our cash needs. We cannot assure you that the operating results of our subsidiaries at any given time will be sufficient to make dividends, distributions or other payments to us in order to allow us to make payments on the senior notes and debentures. In addition, the payment of these dividends, distributions and other payments, as well as other transfers of assets, between our subsidiaries and from our subsidiaries to us may be subject to legal, regulatory or contractual restrictions. Some state regulators have imposed and others may consider imposing on regulated companies, including us, cash management practices that could limit the ability of such regulated companies to transfer cash between subsidiaries or to the parent company. While none of the existing state regulations materially affect our cash management, any changes to the existing regulations or imposition of new regulations or restrictions may materially adversely affect our ability to transfer cash within our consolidated companies.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our senior notes and debentures are structurally subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our subsidiaries have not guaranteed our senior notes and debentures. As a result, holders of such securities will not have any claim as a creditor against our subsidiaries. Accordingly, all obligations of our subsidiaries (including any liens granted by our subsidiaries on any of their assets to secure any of our obligations) will have to be satisfied before any of the assets of such subsidiaries would be available for distribution, upon a liquidation or otherwise. Although the indentures governing our senior notes and debentures limit the indebtedness our subsidiaries may incur, our subsidiaries will be able to incur a substantial amount of additional debt.  Additionally, although the indentures limit the liens that may be granted on the assets of our subsidiaries, our subsidiaries will be able to grant liens to secure a substantial amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, certain indebtedness under our credit facilities. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our senior notes and debentures are unsecured and will effectively be subordinated to any secured indebtedness.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our senior notes and debentures are unsecured and therefore will be effectively subordinated to any of our existing and future secured indebtedness, to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness, including, upon consummation of the Verizon Transaction, the August 2015 senior secured delayed-draw term loan, which will be secured (by a pledge of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Frontier North Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary) upon the initial drawing thereunder, and the obligations under the 2014 and 2012 CoBank Credit Facilities and the Revolving Credit Facility, which will be secured equally and ratably with the August 2015 senior secured delayed-draw term loan upon initial drawing thereunder. In the event of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, the assets that serve as collateral for any secured indebtedness will be available to satisfy the obligations under the secured senior notes and debentures will permit us, subject to specified limitations, to incur a substantial amount of additional secured debt.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Many of the covenants in the supplemental indentures governing our senior notes issued in September 2015 will not apply during any period in which such senior notes are rated investment grade by at least two of Moody’s, S&P or Fitch.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Many of the covenants in the supplemental indentures governing the applicable series of our senior notes issued in September 2015 will not apply during any period in which such series of notes are rated investment grade by at least two of Moody’s, S&P or Fitch, provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. Such covenants 
		
		 

		

			20

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		restrict, among other things, our ability to pay distributions, incur debt and enter into certain other transactions. There can be no assurance that any series of notes will ever be rated investment grade, or that if they are rated investment grade, that the series of notes will maintain these ratings. However, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force. To the extent the covenants are subsequently reinstated, any such actions taken while the covenants were suspended would not result in an event of default under the supplemental indentures governing the applicable series of notes. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase.
		
		
			 
		
		
			At December 31, 2015, approximately 4% of our total debt is at variable rates of interest; this percentage is expected to increase to approximately 12% following the closing of the Verizon Transaction. Borrowings under our credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. In the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase our senior notes upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The terms of our senior notes require us to make an offer to repurchase the notes upon the occurrence of a Change of Control and Ratings Decline (as defined in the indentures governing the notes) at a purchase price equal to 101% of the respective principal amounts of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of the purchase. It is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the Change of Control Triggering Event to make the required repurchase of the applicable series of notes and will be required to obtain third party financing to do so. We may not be able to obtain this financing on commercially reasonable terms, or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the occurrence of certain change of control events may constitute an event of default under the terms of our credit facilities. Such an event of default would entitle the lenders under our credit facilities to, among other things, cause all outstanding debt thereunder to become due and payable.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We cannot assure that we will be able to continue paying dividends.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The amount and timing of future dividend payments is subject to applicable law and will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors based on factors such as cash flow and cash requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition and other factors. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet.  If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings and reduce our stockholders’ equity.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Under generally accepted accounting principles, intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable.  Frontier monitors relevant circumstances, including general economic conditions, enterprise value multiples for other rural ILEC properties, our overall financial performance, and the market prices for our stock, and the potential impact that changes in such circumstances might have on the valuation of Frontier’s goodwill or other intangible assets.  If our goodwill or other intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined, which would reduce our stockholders’ equity.
		
		
			 
		
		

		
		 

		

			21

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		Risks Related to Regulation
		
		
			 
		
		
			Changes in federal or state regulations may reduce the switched access charge revenues we receive. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			A portion of Frontier’s total revenues ($177 million, or 3%, in 2015 and $201 million, or 4%, in 2014) are derived from switched access charges paid by other carriers for services we provide in originating and terminating intrastate and interstate long distance traffic.  Frontier expects a portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from switched access charges paid by these carriers for these services. The amount of switched access charge revenues that Frontier will receive for these services is regulated by the FCC and state regulatory agencies and is expected to decline in 2016.
		
		
			 
		
		
			On November 18, 2011, the FCC adopted the 2011 Order regarding Intercarrier Compensation, which is the payment framework that governs how carriers compensate each other for the exchange of interstate traffic. The 2011 Order began a multi-year transition in July 2012, with the second step implemented in July 2013 and the third step in July 2014. The transition moves the rate for terminating traffic to near zero by 2017.  Frontier is permitted to recover a significant portion of those revenues through end user rates and other replacement support mechanisms. Additionally, the 2011 Order requires VoIP providers to pay interstate terminating interconnection charges and requires all carriers terminating traffic to provide appropriate call information, thus prohibiting so-called “phantom traffic.”  The reform of the Universal Service Fund shifts the existing High-Cost portion of the fund from supporting voice services to supporting broadband deployment in high-cost areas.  The 2011 Order preempts the states with regard to the regulation of intrastate terminating access rates.  The 2011 Order has been challenged in court and the FCC was petitioned to reconsider various aspects of it.  The only issue that remains active on appeal is the ability of competitive carriers to assess VOIP access charges. Accordingly, we cannot predict the long-term impact of this appeal at this time but believe that the 2011 Order otherwise provides a stable regulatory framework to facilitate our ongoing focus on the deployment of broadband into our rural markets.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The FCC also has an ongoing proceeding considering whether to make changes to its regulatory regime governing special access services. When and how these proposed changes will be addressed is unknown and, accordingly, we cannot predict the impact of future changes on our results of operations. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Certain states also have their own open proceedings to address reform to intrastate access charges and other intercarrier compensation and state universal service funds. Although the FCC has pre-empted state jurisdiction on most access charges, many states could consider moving forward with their proceedings. We cannot predict when or how these matters will be decided or the effect on our subsidy or switched access revenues.  However, future reductions in our subsidy or switched access revenues may directly affect our profitability and cash flows as those regulatory revenues do not have an equal level of associated variable expenses. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We are reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			A portion of Frontier’s total revenues ($500 million, or 9%, in 2015 and $319 million, or 7%, in 2014) are derived from federal and state subsidies for rural and high-cost support, commonly referred to as USF.  The FCC’s 2011 Order changed how federal subsidies are calculated and disbursed, with these changes being phased-in beginning in July 2012.  These changes transition the USF, which supports voice services in high-cost areas, to the CAF, which supports broadband deployment in high-cost areas. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Federal subsidies, including CAF and USF, represented $319 million, or 6%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2015 and $162 million, or 3%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2014.  State subsidies represented $30 million, or 1%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2015 and $32 million, or 1%, in 2014.  Surcharges to customers (local, long distance and interconnection) to recover USF contribution fees which are remitted to the FCC and recorded as an expense in “Network related expenses”, represented $151 million, or 3%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2015 and $125 million, or 3%, in 2014.  Future reductions in these subsidies, or in our ability to recover such fees, could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Frontier and our industry will likely remain highly regulated, and we could incur substantial compliance costs that could constrain our ability to compete in our target markets. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			As an incumbent local exchange carrier, some of the services we offer are subject to significant regulation from federal, state and local authorities.  This regulation could impact our ability to change our rates, especially on our basic voice services and our access rates, and could impose substantial compliance costs on us.  Regulation could constrain our ability to compete and, in some jurisdictions, may restrict our ability to expand our service offerings.  In addition, changes to the regulations that govern our business (including any implementation of the 2011 Order or the 2013 Order) may have an adverse effect on our business by reducing the allowable fees that we may charge, imposing additional compliance costs, reducing the 
		
		 

		

			22

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		amount of subsidies or otherwise changing the nature of our operations and the competition in our industry. At this time it is unknown how these regulations will affect Frontier’s operations or ability to compete in the future.  This and other FCC rulemakings and state regulatory proceedings, including those relating to intercarrier compensation, universal service and broadband services, could have a substantial adverse impact on our operations. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			In addition, on February 26, 2015, the FCC issued an order that changed the regulatory classification of broadband service from an “information service” to a “telecommunications service”. In the Order, the FCC adopted specific obligations for fixed-mobile providers of broadband Internet access services and specifically prohibited the following: blocking access to legal content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices; impairing or degrading lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices; favoring some lawful Internet traffic over other lawful traffic in exchange for consideration; and otherwise unreasonably harming consumers or edge providers, and announced additional transparency requirements intended to provide consumers more information about a providers network management practices, performance, speed and data caps.    
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our Internet access offerings could become subject to additional laws and regulations as they are adopted or applied to the Internet. As the significance of the Internet expands, federal, state and local governments may pass laws and adopt rules and regulations, or apply existing laws and regulations to the Internet (including Internet access services), and related matters are under consideration in both federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies.  We cannot predict whether the outcome of pending or future proceedings will prove beneficial or detrimental to our competitive position.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Risks Related to Technology
		
		
			 
		
		
			We may be unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of our customers, and may lose customers as a result.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The communications industry is subject to significant changes in technology, and replacing or upgrading our infrastructure to keep pace with such technological changes could result in significant capital expenditures.  If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment as necessary, we may be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the needs or expectations of our customers.  
		
		
			 
		
		
			In addition, enhancements to product offerings and the management of broadband speed and capacity issues may influence our customers to consider other service providers, such as cable operators or wireless providers.  We may be unable to attract new or retain existing customers from cable companies due to their deployment of enhanced broadband and VoIP technology.  In addition, new capacity services for wireless broadband technologies may permit our competitors to offer broadband data services to our customers throughout most or all of our service areas. Any resulting inability to attract new or retain existing customers could adversely impact our business and results of operations in a material manner.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our services could be adversely affected and we may be subject to increased costs and claims in connection with Internet and systems security and malicious practices.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We use encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide secure transmission of confidential information, including our business data and customer information.  We also rely on employees in our network operations centers, data centers, call centers and retail stores to follow our procedures when handling such information.  Any unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional release of confidential information or other disruptions could result in increased costs, customer dissatisfaction leading to loss of customers and revenues, and fines and other liabilities.  
		
		
			 
		
		
			In addition, Frontier or Frontier’s customers using our network to access the Internet may become victim to malicious and abusive Internet activities, including unsolicited mass advertising (“spam”), peer-to-peer file sharing, distribution of viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software.  These activities could adversely affect our network, result in excessive call volume at our call centers and damage our or our customers’ equipment and data.   
		
		
			 
		
		
			Frontier maintains security measures, disaster recovery plans and business continuity plans for its business.  However, Frontier’s information technology networks and infrastructure may nonetheless be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attack by hackers or breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties, disruption in operations, misappropriation of sensitive data, damage to Frontier’s reputation and costly response measures, which could adversely affect Frontier’s business. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
		
		
			 
		
		

		
		 

		

			23

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			 

		

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		Item 1B