Item 1A.  Risk Factors    
		
		
			 
		
		
			Before you make an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider all the information we have included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC.  In particular, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below and read the risks and uncertainties related to “forward-looking statements” (which we do not undertake to update) as set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (the MD&A) section of this Form 10-K, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report.   The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our Company.  Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the MD&A and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Risks Related to the AT&T Transaction
		
		
			We may not consummate the AT&T Transaction on the terms or timeline currently contemplated or at all.
		
		
			The consummation of the AT&T Transaction is subject to certain conditions, including (i) the absence of a court or other governmental order prohibiting consummation of the transaction, (ii) the receipt of applicable regulatory consents, (iii) the absence of a material adverse effect on the business to be acquired from AT&T and (iv) other customary closing conditions.  We can make no assurances that the AT&T Transaction will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all.  We have expended and will continue to expend a significant amount of capital and management’s time and resources on the AT&T Transaction, and a failure to consummate the AT&T Transaction as currently contemplated, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and cash flows.  In addition we may choose to raise all or a portion of the financing required to complete the AT&T Transaction prior to the closing of such transaction.  If we do so, and if the AT&T Transaction is ultimately not consummated or is delayed for a significant period of time, we could be obligated to pay significant interest expense and other costs in connection with the financing without achieving the expected benefits of the AT&T Transaction. The trading price of our securities could be adversely affected if the AT&T Transaction is not consummated as currently contemplated, or at all.
		
		
			Our effort to combine our business and the business to be acquired from AT&T may not be successful.
		
		
			The Company is devoting a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of our business and the business to be acquired from AT&T, which may decrease the time that management will have to serve existing customers, attract new customers and develop new services or strategies.  The size and complexity of the acquired business and the process of using our existing common support functions and systems to manage the acquired business after the acquisition, if not managed and completed successfully by management, may result in interruptions of the business activities of the Company that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.   
		
		
			We may not realize the cost synergies that are anticipated from the AT&T Transaction.
		
		
			The success of the AT&T Transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost synergies.  The Company’s success in realizing these cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business and operations with the acquired business and operations.  Even if the Company is able to integrate the Frontier and acquired businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost synergies that Frontier currently expects within the anticipated time frame or at all.  
		
		
			If the assets included in the business to be purchased from AT&T are insufficient to operate the acquired business, it could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
		
		
			Pursuant to the stock purchase agreement executed in connection with the AT&T Transaction, AT&T will contribute to the acquired business certain assets and liabilities of its local exchange business and related landline activities in Connecticut, including video, broadband internet and switched long distance services provided to designated customers located in Connecticut.  However, the contributed assets may not be sufficient to operate all aspects of the acquired business and the Company may have to use assets or resources from our existing business or acquire additional assets in order to operate the acquired business, which could cost the Company more than we anticipate.
		
		

		
		 

		

			14

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		Pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, we have certain rights to cause AT&T to transfer to us any assets required to be included in the acquired business that were not contributed as required.  If AT&T is unable or unwilling to transfer those assets to the Company, or if AT&T and Frontier disagree about whether those assets were required to be contributed to the acquired business under the stock purchase agreement, the Company might not be able to obtain those assets or similar assets from others without significant additional costs or at all, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
		
		
			The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected following consummation of the AT&T Transaction if the Company is not able to obtain requisite consents or enter into certain agreements.  
		
		
			The products and services of the acquired business are currently provided by AT&T to certain customers pursuant to master agreements, together with other AT&T products or services.  Pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, we and AT&T have jointly agreed to use our reasonable best efforts for six months following the consummation of the AT&T Transaction to obtain any consents required to separate from such master agreements and assign to Frontier the portion thereof related to the acquired business.  To the extent that the parties are not able to obtain any such required consent, such contracts will not be assigned to us and we may not be able to establish a direct relationship with such customers.
		
		
			Frontier must also enter into agreements and obtain consents related to, among other things, video transport and content, in order to provide video services to customers in Connecticut following consummation of the AT&T Transaction.  In the event Frontier is not able to enter into such agreements or obtain such consents, AT&T has agreed to arrange for such services to be provided to Frontier until October 1, 2014.  If we are not able to enter into the video transport and content agreements and obtain the related consents by October 1, 2014, we may not be able to provide such services to customers in Connecticut following consummation of the AT&T Transaction, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  
		
		
			Regulatory agencies may delay approval of the AT&T Transaction, fail to approve it, or approve it in a manner that may diminish the anticipated benefits of the AT&T Transaction.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Completion of the AT&T Transaction is conditioned upon the receipt of certain government consents, approvals, orders and authorizations.  While we intend to pursue vigorously all required governmental approvals and do not know of any reason why we would not be able to obtain the necessary approvals in a timely manner, the requirement to receive these approvals before completion of the AT&T Transaction could delay its completion.  A lengthy delay in the completion of the AT&T Transaction could diminish the anticipated benefits and/or result in additional transaction and financing costs, loss of revenues or other effects associated with uncertainty about the transaction.  In addition, until the AT&T Transaction is completed, the attention of Frontier management may be unnecessarily diverted from ongoing business and regular business responsibilities.
		
		
			Further, governmental agencies may decline to grant required approvals, or they may impose conditions on their approval of the AT&T Transaction that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  If certain governmental agencies decline to grant any required approval for the AT&T Transaction, the AT&T Transaction may not be consummated.  In addition, conditions imposed by governmental agencies in connection with their approval of the AT&T Transaction (such as service quality or capital expenditure requirements) may restrict the Company’s ability to achieve anticipated synergies, revenues and cash flows.
		
		
			The stock purchase agreement contains provisions that may discourage other companies from trying to acquire Frontier.
		
		
			The stock purchase agreement for the AT&T Transaction contains provisions that may discourage a third party from submitting a business combination proposal to us prior to the closing of the AT&T Transaction that might result in greater value to our stockholders than the AT&T Transaction. The stock purchase agreement provides that we may not sell all or substantially all of our assets unless the buyer assumes in writing our obligations, including the payment of the purchase price, under the stock purchase agreement.  This would represent an additional cost for a potential third party seeking a business combination with us.
		
		
			Our stock price may be adversely affected if we are unable to consummate the AT&T Transaction.
		
		
			If the AT&T Transaction is not completed for any reason, the trading price of Frontier’s common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of the common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the AT&T Transaction will be completed and the related benefits will be realized.  Frontier may also be subject to additional risks if the AT&T Transaction is not completed, including:
		
		

		
		 

		

			15

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			significant costs related to the transaction, such as legal, accounting, filing, financial advisory, and integration costs that have already been incurred or will continue up to closing.  The Company currently expects that it will incur approximately $225 million to $275 million of costs related to acquisition and integration activities in 2014;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			significant interest expense will be incurred if Frontier completes the financing of approximately $1.9 billion prior to closing; and
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			potential disruption to the business of Frontier and distraction of its workforce and management team.
		
			 
		
		
			The pendency of the AT&T Transaction could adversely affect the business and operations of Frontier and the acquired business.
		
		
			 
		
		
			In connection with the pending AT&T Transaction, some customers of the acquired business may delay or defer decisions or may end their relationships with AT&T prior to completion of the AT&T Transaction or with the Company after the AT&T Transaction closes. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Risks Related to Our Business 
		
		
			 
		
		
			The risks discussed below in this section refer to the “Company” for ease of reference. The risks apply to us as a standalone entity before the AT&T Transaction is completed, will continue to apply to us if the AT&T Transaction is not completed for any reason and will also apply to the combined company assuming the AT&T Transaction closes.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We will likely face further reductions in voice customers, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues and federal and state subsidy revenues, which could adversely affect us. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We have experienced declining voice customers, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues, federal and state subsidies and related revenues because of economic conditions, increasing competition, changing consumer behavior (such as wireless displacement of wireline use, e-mail use, instant messaging and increasing use of VoIP), technology changes and regulatory constraints.  We will likely continue to experience reductions in the future.  The factors referred to above, among others, are likely to cause our local network service, switched network access, long distance and subsidy revenues to continue to decline, and these factors may cause our cash generated by operations to decrease.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We face intense competition, which could adversely affect us. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			The communications industry is extremely competitive. Through mergers and various service expansion strategies, service providers are striving to provide integrated solutions both within and across geographic markets.  Our competitors include competitive local exchange carriers, Internet service providers, wireless companies, VoIP providers and cable companies that may provide services competitive with the services that we offer or intend to introduce.  We also believe that wireless and cable telephony providers have increased their penetration of various services in our markets.  We expect that competition will remain robust.  Our revenue and cash flow will be adversely impacted if we cannot reverse our customer losses.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We cannot predict which of the many possible future technologies, products or services will be important in order to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services.  Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the success of capital expenditure investments in our properties, in addition to our new marketing efforts, our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including a changing regulatory environment that may affect our business and that of our competitors differently, new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors.  Increasing competition may reduce our revenues and increase our marketing and other costs as well as require us to increase our capital expenditures and thereby decrease our cash flows. 
		
		

		
		 

		

			16

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		
		
		
			 
		
		
			Some of our competitors have superior resources, which may place us at a cost and price disadvantage. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Some of our competitors have market presence, engineering, technical, marketing and financial capabilities, substantially greater than ours.  In addition, some of these competitors are able to raise capital at a lower cost than we are able to. Consequently, some of these competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we will be able to.  Additionally, the greater brand name recognition of some competitors may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to retain or obtain customers. Finally, the cost advantages of some of these competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We may be unable to stabilize or grow our revenues and cash flows despite the initiatives we have implemented. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We must produce adequate revenues and cash flows that, when combined with cash on hand and funds available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes, fund our pension and other employee benefit obligations and pay dividends pursuant to our dividend policy.  We have experienced revenue declines in 2013 and 2012 as compared to prior years. While we have identified some potential areas of opportunity and implemented several revenue initiatives, we cannot assure you that these opportunities will be successful or that these initiatives will improve our financial position or our results of operations. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Weak economic conditions may decrease demand for our services or necessitate increased discounts. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We could be adversely impacted by weak economic conditions or their effects.  Downturns in the economy and competition in our markets could cause some of our customers to reduce or eliminate their purchases of our basic and enhanced voice services, broadband and video services and make it difficult for us to obtain new customers.  In addition, if economic conditions deteriorate, our customers may delay or discontinue payment for our services or seek more competitive pricing from other service providers, or we may be required to offer increased discounts in order to retain our customers. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Disruption in our networks, infrastructure and information technology may cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses.
		
		
			 
		
		
			To attract and retain customers, we must provide reliable service.  Some of the risks to our networks, infrastructure and information technology include physical damage, security breaches, capacity limitations, power surges or outages, software defects and other disruptions beyond our control, such as natural disasters and acts of terrorism.  From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we experience short disruptions in our service due to factors such as cable damage, theft of our equipment, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers.  We could experience more significant disruptions in the future.  We could also face disruptions due to capacity limitations if changes in our customers’ usage patterns for our broadband services result in a significant increase in capacity utilization, such as through increased usage of video or peer-to-peer file sharing applications.  Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur additional expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenues and cash flows. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our business is sensitive to the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We have substantial business relationships with other communications carriers for whom we provide service.  While bankruptcies of these carriers have not had a material adverse effect on our business in recent years, future bankruptcies in the industry could result in the loss of significant customers for us, as well as cause more price competition and an increased allowance for doubtful accounts receivable.  Such bankruptcies may be more likely in the future if economic conditions stagnate.  As a result, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 13,650 employees.   Approximately 8,400 of these employees, or 62% of the total workforce, were represented by unions and were therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 2,600 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements that expired in 2013, but have been extended and are still effective in 2014. Of the union-represented employees as of December 31, 2013, approximately 1,200, or 14%, of the unionized workforce are covered by collective agreements that expire in 2014 and approximately 1,350, or 16%, of the unionized workforce are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2015. 
		
		
			 
		
		

		
		 

		

			17

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		We cannot predict the outcome of negotiations of the collective bargaining agreements covering our employees.  If we are unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services.  New labor agreements or the renewal of existing agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			If we are unable to hire or retain key personnel, we may be unable to operate our business successfully. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our success will depend in part upon the continued services of our management.  We cannot guarantee that our key personnel will not leave or compete with us.  The loss, incapacity or unavailability for any reason of key members of our management team could have a material impact on our business.  In addition, our financial results and our ability to compete will suffer should we become unable to attract, integrate or retain other qualified personnel in the future. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We may complete a future significant strategic transaction that may not achieve intended results or could increase the number of our outstanding shares or amount of outstanding debt or result in a change of control. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We continuously evaluate and may in the future enter into additional strategic transactions, such as the AT&T Transaction.  Any such transaction could happen at any time, could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, an acquisition, merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Evaluating potential transactions and integrating completed ones may divert the attention of our management from ordinary operating matters.  The success of these potential transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies through the successful integration of the businesses we acquire with our existing business.  Even if we are successful in integrating acquired businesses, we cannot assure you that these integrations will result in the realization of the full benefit of any anticipated growth opportunities or cost synergies or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames.  In addition, acquired businesses may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			If we complete an acquisition, investment or other strategic transaction, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in the number of our outstanding shares or the aggregate amount of our debt.  The number of shares of our common stock or the aggregate principal amount of our debt that we may issue may be significant.  A strategic transaction may result in a change in control of our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business.
		
		
			 
		
		

		
		 

		

			18

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		
		
		
			Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources and Capitalization
		
		
			 
		
		
			Volatility in asset values related to Frontier’s pension plan and/or changes in pension plan assumptions may require us to make additional unanticipated contributions to fund pension plan liabilities.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Frontier’s pension plan assets have decreased from $1,253.6 million at December 31, 2012 to $1,216.5 million at December 31, 2013, a decrease of $37.1 million, or 3%.  This decrease is a result of benefit payments of $218.8 million, primarily lump sum settlements of $164.6 million, offset by positive investment returns of $119.4 million, cash contributions of $38.9 million and real property contributions of $23.4 million. The Company expects to make contributions of approximately $100 million in 2014.  Volatility in our asset values or returns may require us to make additional contributions in future years. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			The Company will, upon consummation of the AT&T Transaction, maintain pension plans that assume the acquired business’s pension plan liabilities for active employees. AT&T will transfer assets to the pension plans pursuant to applicable law and the terms of the stock purchase agreement for the AT&T Transaction.   The aggregate asset transfer related to the tax-qualified pension plans will be equal to the projected benefit obligations assumed as of the closing date of the AT&T Transaction.  Following the AT&T Transaction, the Company will be responsible for making any required contributions to the new pension plans to fund liabilities of the plans, and the ongoing pension expenses of the acquired business may require the Company to make cash contributions in respect of the acquired business’s pension plan liabilities.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Substantial debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which amounted to $8.1 billion at December 31, 2013. We have access to a $750.0 million revolving credit facility and may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under the terms of our existing indebtedness. In addition, we entered into the Bridge Loan Agreement on January 29, 2014 and expect to incur $1.9 billion of additional indebtedness in connection with the closing of the AT&T Transaction, either pursuant to an offering of debt securities or under the Bridge Facility. Despite the substantial indebtedness that we have, we are not prohibited from incurring additional indebtedness. If the AT&T Transaction is completed and we were to incur additional indebtedness, the risks that result from our substantial indebtedness could be magnified.    
		
		
			 
		
		
			The potential significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include: 
		
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			instances in which we are unable to meet the covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs, capital expenditures and dividends that would otherwise improve our competitive position, results of operations or stock price;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the communications industry; and
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			the possibility of our being put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who do not have as much debt as we do, and competitors who may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.
		
			 
		
		
			In addition, our senior notes are rated below “investment grade” by independent ratings agencies.  This can result in higher borrowing costs for us.  We cannot assure you that these rating agencies will not lower our current debt ratings, if in the rating agencies’ judgment, such an action is appropriate.  A lowering of a rating may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.
		
		

		
		 

		

			19

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		
		
		
			 
		
		
			We cannot assure that we will be able to continue paying dividends.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Effective February 16, 2012, our Board of Directors set the annual cash dividend at $0.40 per share. However, the amount and timing of future dividend payments is subject to applicable law and will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors based on factors such as cash flow and cash requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition and other factors. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet.  If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings and reduce our stockholders’ equity.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Under generally accepted accounting principles, intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable.  The Company monitors relevant circumstances, including general economic conditions, enterprise value EBITDA multiples for other rural ILEC properties, the Company’s overall financial performance, and the market prices for the Company’s common stock, and the potential impact that changes in such circumstances might have on the valuation of the Company’s goodwill or other intangible assets.  If our goodwill or other intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined, which would reduce our stockholders’ equity.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Risks Related to Regulation
		
		
			 
		
		
			Changes in federal or state regulations may reduce the switched access charge revenues we receive. 
		
		
			A significant portion of Frontier’s total revenues ($234.5 million, or 5%, in 2013 and $282.3 million, or 6%, in 2012) are derived from switched access charges paid by other carriers for services we provide in originating and terminating intrastate and interstate long distance traffic.  As a result, Frontier expects a significant portion of the Company’s revenues will continue to be derived from switched access charges paid by these carriers for services that the Company will provide in originating and terminating this traffic.  The amount of switched access charge revenues that the Company will receive for these services is regulated by the FCC and state regulatory agencies and is expected to decline in 2014.
		
		
			On November 18, 2011, the FCC adopted the Order regarding Intercarrier Compensation, which is the payment framework that governs how carriers compensate each other for the exchange of interstate traffic.  The Order began a multi-year transition in July 2012, with the second step implemented in July 2013. The transition will move terminating traffic to a near zero rate by 2017.  Frontier is permitted to recover a significant portion of those revenues through end user rates and other replacement support mechanisms. Additionally, the Order requires VoIP providers to pay interstate terminating interconnection charges and requires all carriers terminating traffic to provide appropriate call information, thus prohibiting so-called “phantom traffic”.  The reform of the Universal Service Fund shifts the existing High-Cost portion of the fund from supporting voice services to supporting broadband deployment in high-cost areas.  The Order preempts the states with regard to the regulation of intrastate terminating access rates.  The Order has been challenged by certain parties in court and certain parties have also petitioned the FCC to reconsider various aspects of the Order. Accordingly, although we believe that the Order will provide a stable regulatory framework to facilitate our ongoing focus on the deployment of broadband into its rural markets, we cannot predict the long-term impact at this time.
		
		
			The FCC also has an ongoing proceeding considering whether to make changes to its regulatory regime governing special access services. When and how these proposed changes will be addressed is unknown and, accordingly, we cannot predict the impact of future changes on the Company’s results of operations. 
		
		
			Certain states also have their own open proceedings to address reform to intrastate access charges and other intercarrier compensation and state universal service funds. Although the FCC has pre-empted state jurisdiction on most access charges, many states could consider moving forward with their proceedings. We cannot predict when or how these matters will be decided or the effect on the Company’s subsidy or switched access revenues.  However, future reductions in the Company’s subsidy or switched access revenues may directly affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows as those regulatory revenues do not have an equal level of associated variable expenses. 
		
		

		
		 

		

			20

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		
		
		
			We are reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws. 
		
		
			A significant portion of Frontier’s total revenues ($317.1 million in the aggregate, or 7%, in 2013 and $324.6 million in the aggregate, or 6%, in 2012) are derived from federal and state subsidies for rural and high-cost support, commonly referred to as universal service fund subsidies (USF).  Future reductions in the Company’s subsidy revenues may directly affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows. The FCC’s Order changed how federal subsidies will be calculated and disbursed, with these changes being phased-in beginning in 2012.  These changes transition the Federal Universal Service High-Cost Fund, which supports voice services in high-cost areas, to the CAF, which supports broadband deployment in high-cost areas. CAF Phase I, implemented in 2012, provided for ongoing USF support for price cap carriers capped at the 2011 amount. In addition, the FCC in the first round of CAF Phase I made available for price cap ILECs an additional $300 million in incremental high-cost broadband support to be used for broadband deployment to unserved areas. On July 24, 2012, Frontier formally notified the FCC and appropriate state commissions of its intent to accept all of the funds for which it was eligible, amounting to $71.9 million. The $71.9 million in the first round of CAF Phase I support is expected to enable an incremental 92,877 households for broadband service and will be accounted for as Contributions in Aid of Construction.  We are required to spend the CAF Phase I funds on and enable these 92,877 households no later than July 24, 2015.  We have received the entire $71.9 million of the first round of CAF Phase I support funds and we initially recorded such funds as increases to Cash and Other liabilities in the balance sheet.  
		
		
			 
		
		
			On May 21, 2013, the FCC released a Report and Order authorizing a second round of CAF Phase I.  As part of this May 2013 Report and Order, the FCC expanded the areas eligible for funding to include those that lack service of 3Mbps download and 768 kbps upload.  In 2013, Frontier applied for funds from the second round of CAF Phase I and in December 2013 the FCC awarded $57.6 million to us to serve 94,899 locations in our high-cost, unserved and underserved areas across multiple states.  The FCC also announced on January 10, 2014, that Frontier was eligible for an additional $3.7 million in funding to serve 6,815 locations.  We may need to match a portion of the funding received from the second round of CAF Phase I to support these projects.      
		
		
			 
		
		
			Federal subsidies representing interstate access support, high-cost loop support and local switching support represented $167.2 million, or 4%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2013 and $160.7 million, or 3%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2012.  State subsidies represented $32.4 million, or 1%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2013 and $44.2 million, or 1%, in 2012.  Surcharges to customers (local, long distance and interconnection) to recover universal service fund contribution fees which are remitted to the FCC and recorded as an expense in “Other operating expenses”, represented $117.5 million, or 2%, of Frontier’s total revenues in 2013 and $119.7 million, or 2%, in 2012.  As a result, a significant decrease in these subsidies, or in our ability to recover such fees, could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.
		
		
			Our Company and our industry will likely remain highly regulated, and we could incur substantial compliance costs that could constrain our ability to compete in our target markets. 
		
		
			As an incumbent local exchange carrier, some of the services we offer are subject to significant regulation from federal, state and local authorities.  This regulation could impact our ability to change our rates, especially on our basic voice services and our access rates, and could impose substantial compliance costs on us.  Regulation could constrain our ability to compete and, in some jurisdictions, may restrict our ability to expand our service offerings.  In addition, changes to the regulations that govern our business (including any implementation of the Order) may have an adverse effect on our business by reducing the allowable fees that we may charge, imposing additional compliance costs, reducing the amount of subsidies or otherwise changing the nature of our operations and the competition in our industry. At this time it is unknown how these regulations will affect Frontier’s operations or ability to compete in the future.  This and other FCC rulemakings and state regulatory proceedings, including those relating to intercarrier compensation, universal service and broadband services, could have a substantial adverse impact on our operations. 
		
		
			In addition, in connection with our Internet access offerings, we could become subject to laws and regulations as they are adopted or applied to the Internet.  There is currently only limited regulation applicable to these services.  As the significance of the Internet expands, federal, state and local governments may pass laws and adopt rules and regulations, or apply existing laws and regulations to the Internet (including Internet access services), and related matters are under consideration in both federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies.  We cannot predict whether the outcome of pending or future proceedings will prove beneficial or detrimental to our competitive position.
		
		

		
		 

		

			21

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		We may not be able to deploy or upgrade broadband service to the unserved and underserved locations with the CAF funds received.
		
		
			 
		
		
			During 2012 and early 2013, we received $71.9 million from the first round of CAF Phase I, which supports broadband deployment in high-cost areas.  If we are unable to deploy to the 92,877 unserved locations with the CAF funds received to date in accordance with the FCC rules by July 2015, then the Company would need to incur additional capital expenditures or refund a portion of the CAF funds received in 2012 and 2013 to the FCC.
		
		
			 
		
		
			On August 20, 2013, Frontier applied for $71.5 million from the second round of CAF Phase I to support the delivery of broadband to an additional 119,000 households.  The FCC announced on December 5, 2013, that it awarded $57.6 million to us to serve 94,899 locations in our high-cost, unserved and underserved areas across multiple states.  We have received this funding in December 2013.  The FCC also announced on January 10, 2014, that Frontier was eligible for an additional $3.7 million in funding to serve 6,815 locations.  We may need to match a portion of the funding received from the second round of CAF Phase I to support these projects.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Risks Related to Technology
		
		
			 
		
		
			In the future, as competition continues within our markets, we may be unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of our customers, and may lose customers as a result.
		
		
			The communications industry is subject to significant changes in technology and replacing or upgrading our infrastructure to keep pace with such technological changes could result in significant capital expenditures.  If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment, we may be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the needs or expectations of our customers.  
		
		
			In addition, enhancements to product offerings and the management of broadband speed and capacity issues may influence our customers to consider other service providers, like cable operators or wireless providers.  We may be unable to attract or retain new customers from cable companies due to their deployment of enhanced broadband and VoIP technology.  In addition, new capacity services for wireless broadband technologies may permit our competitors to offer broadband data services to our customers throughout most or all of our service areas. 
		
		
			Our services could be adversely affected and we may be subject to increased costs and claims in connection with Internet and systems security and malicious practices.
		
		
			We use encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide secure transmission of confidential information, including our business data and customer information.  We also rely on employees in our network operations centers, data centers, call centers and retail stores to follow our procedures when handling such information.  Any unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional release of confidential information or other disruptions could result in increased costs, customer dissatisfaction leading to loss of customers and revenues, and fines and other liabilities.  
		
		
			In addition, our Company or our customers using our network to access the Internet may become victim to malicious and abusive Internet activities, including unsolicited mass advertising (“spam”), peer-to-peer file sharing, distribution of viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software.  These activities could adversely affect our network, result in excessive call volume at our call centers and damage our or our customers’ equipment and data.   
		
		
			Despite security measures and business continuity plans, the Company’s information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attack by hackers or breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties, disruption in operations, misappropriation of sensitive data, damage to the Company’s reputation and costly response measures, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
		
		

		
		 

		

			22

		

		

			 

		

 

		

			FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

		

		

			 

		


		
		
		
			 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Item 1B