Item 1A.  Risk Factors
          ------------

Before you make an  investment  decision  with  respect to our  securities,  you
should  carefully  consider all the information we have included or incorporated
by reference in this Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC.
In particular,  you should carefully  consider the risk factors  described below
and read the risks and uncertainties related to "forward-looking  statements" as
set forth in the  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and  Results  of   Operations"   section  of  this  Form  10-K.  The  risks  and
uncertainties  described  below  are not  the  only  ones  facing  our  company.
Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we
currently  deem  immaterial  or that are not  specific  to us,  such as  general
economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations.

Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry
- ---------------------------------------------

         We face intense competition, which could adversely affect us.

         The telecommunications industry is extremely competitive and
competition is increasing. The traditional dividing lines between long distance,
local, wireless, cable and internet services are becoming increasingly blurred.
Through mergers and various service expansion strategies, services providers are
striving to provide integrated solutions both within and across geographic
markets. Our competitors include CLECs and other providers (or potential
providers) of services, such as internet service providers, or ISPs, wireless
companies, neighboring incumbents, VOIP providers such as Vonage and cable
companies that may provide services competitive with ours or services that we
intend to introduce. Competition is intense and increasing and we cannot assure
you that we will be able to compete effectively. For example, at December 31,
2006 we had 111,000 fewer access lines than we had at December 31, 2005 and we
believe wireless and cable telephony providers have increased their market share
in our markets. We expect to continue to lose access lines and that competition
with respect to all our products and services will increase.

                                       8


         We expect competition to intensify as a result of the entrance of new
competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. We
cannot predict which of the many possible future technologies, products or
services will be important to maintain our competitive position or what
expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies,
products or services. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on
marketing and on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive
factors affecting the industry, including a changing regulatory environment that
may affect our competitors and us differently, new services that may be
introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic
conditions and pricing strategies by competitors. Increasing competition may
reduce our revenues and increase our costs as well as require us to increase our
capital expenditures and thereby decrease our cash flow.

         Some of our competitors have superior resources, which may place us
at a cost and price disadvantage.

         Some of our current and potential competitors have market presence,
engineering, technical and marketing capabilities, and financial, personnel and
other resources substantially greater than ours. In addition, some of our
competitors can raise capital at a lower cost than we can. Consequently, some
competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network
infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies
and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other
opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and
sale of their products and services than we can. Additionally, the greater brand
name recognition of some competitors may require us to price our services at
lower levels in order to retain or obtain customers. Finally, the cost
advantages of some competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices
for an extended period of time if they so choose.

Risks Related to Our Business
- -----------------------------

         Decreases in certain types of our revenues will impact our
profitability.

         Our Frontier business has been experiencing declining access lines,
switched access minutes of use, long distance prices and related revenues
because of economic conditions, increasing competition, changing consumer
behavior (such as wireless displacement of wireline use, email use, instant
messaging and increasing use of VOIP), technology changes and regulatory
constraints. These factors are likely to cause our local network service,
switched network access, long distance and subsidy revenues to continue to
decline, and these factors, together with our increasing employee costs, and the
potential need to increase our capital spending, may cause our cash generated by
operations to decrease.

         We may be unable to grow our revenue and cash flow despite the
initiatives we have implemented.

         We must produce adequate cash flow that, when combined with funds
available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to service our
debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes and maintain our current
dividend policy. We expect that our cash taxes will increase substantially in
2007 as we begin to have lower amounts of tax operating losses. We have
implemented several growth initiatives, including increasing our marketing
promotion/expenditures and launching new products and services with a focus on
areas that are growing or demonstrate meaningful demand such as wireline and
wireless high-speed internet. There is no assurance that these initiatives will
result in an improvement in our financial position or our results of operations.

         We may complete a significant business combination or other transaction
that could increase our shares outstanding, affect our debt, result in a change
in control, or all of the above.

         From time to time we evaluate potential acquisitions and other
arrangements, such as the Commonwealth acquisition, that would extend our
geographic markets, expand our services, enlarge the capacity of our networks or
increase the types of services provided through our networks. If we complete any
acquisition or other arrangement, we may require additional financing that could
result in an increase in our shares outstanding and/or debt, result in a change
in control, or all of the above. There can be no assurance that we will enter
into any transaction.

                                       9


         Our business is sensitive to the creditworthiness of our wholesale
customers.

         We have substantial business relationships with other
telecommunications carriers for whom we provide service. During the past few
years, several of our customers have filed for bankruptcy. While these
bankruptcies have not had a material adverse effect on our business to date,
future bankruptcies in our industry could result in our loss of significant
customers, more price competition and uncollectible accounts receivable. As a
result, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely
affected.

Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources, and Capitalization
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

      Substantial debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us.

      We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We may also obtain
additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future
financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under our existing
indebtedness, which would increase our total debt.

      The significant negative consequences on our financial condition and
results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:

        *      limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity
               financing;

        *      instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants
               contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient
               to make required debt payments, which circumstances have the
               potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our
               outstanding indebtedness;

        *      the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from
               operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our
               cash flow available for other purposes, including operating
               costs, capital expenditures and dividends that could improve our
               competitive position or results of operations;

        *      requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of
               our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment
               obligations;

        *      compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to,
               competitive challenges in our business and the communications
               industry; and

        *      the possibility of our being put at a competitive disadvantage
               with competitors who do not have as much debt as us, and
               competitors who may be in a more favorable position to access
               additional capital resources.

         We will require substantial capital to upgrade and enhance our
operations.

         Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure will result in significant
capital expenditures. If this capital is not available when needed, our business
will be adversely affected. Increasing competition, offering new services,
improving the capabilities or reducing the maintenance costs of our plant may
cause our capital expenditures to increase in the future. In addition, our
ongoing annual dividend of $1.00 per share under our current policy utilizes a
significant portion of our cash generated by operations and therefore limits our
operating and financial flexibility and our ability to significantly increase
capital expenditures. While we believe that the amount of our dividend will
allow for adequate amounts of cash flow for capital spending and other purposes,
any material reduction in cash generated by operations and any increases in
capital expenditures, interest expense or cash taxes would reduce the amount of
cash generated in excess of dividends. Losses of access lines, the effects of
increased competition, lower subsidy and access revenues and the other factors
described above may reduce our cash generated by operations and may require us
to increase capital expenditures. In addition, we expect our cash paid for taxes
to increase significantly over the next several years.


                                       10


Risks Related to Regulation
- ---------------------------

         The access charge revenues we receive may be reduced at any time.

         A significant portion of our revenues ($263.0 million or 13% in 2006)
is derived from access charges paid by IXCs for services we provide in
originating and terminating intrastate and interstate traffic. The amount of
access charge revenues we receive for these services is regulated by the FCC and
state regulatory agencies. Recent rulings regarding access charges have lowered
the amount of revenue we receive from this source. The FCC has an open
proceeding to address reform to access charges and other intercarrier
compensation. A material reduction in the access revenues we receive would
adversely affect our financial results.

         We are reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws.

         We receive a portion of our revenue ($165.0 million or 8% in 2006) from
federal and state subsidies, including the federal high cost fund, federal local
switching support fund, federal USF surcharge and various state funds. FCC and
state regulators are currently considering a number of proposals for changing
the manner in which eligibility for federal subsidies is determined as well as
the amounts of such subsidies. The FCC is also reviewing the mechanism by which
subsidies are funded. We cannot predict when or how these matters will be
decided nor the effect on our subsidy revenue.

         The federal high cost fund is our largest source of subsidy revenue
(approximately $59.0 million in 2006). We currently expect that as a result of
both an increase in the national average cost per loop and a decrease in our
cost structure, there is likely to be a decrease in the subsidy revenue earned
in 2007 through the federal high cost support fund and such decrease may be
significant in relation to the total amount of our subsidy revenue.

         In addition, approximately $37.1 million or 2% of our revenue
represents a surcharge to customers (local, long distance and IXC) which is
remitted to the FCC and recorded as an expense in "other operating expenses".
The FCC revised the calculation for this surcharge by eliminating high speed
internet connections from the calculation effective August 15, 2006. As a
result, we expect this surcharge revenue (and its associated expense) to
decrease in 2007 and such decrease may be significant in relation to the total
amount of our subsidy revenue.

         Our company and industry are highly regulated, imposing substantial
compliance costs and restricting our ability to compete in our target markets.

         As an incumbent, we are subject to significant regulation from federal,
state and local authorities. This regulation restricts our ability to change our
rates, especially on our basic services, and imposes substantial compliance
costs on us. Regulation restricts our ability to compete and, in some
jurisdictions, it may restrict how we are able to expand our service offerings.
In addition, changes to the regulations that govern us may have an adverse
effect upon our business by reducing the allowable fees that we may charge,
imposing additional compliance costs, or otherwise changing the nature of our
operations and the competition in our industry.

         Customers are now permitted to retain their wireline number when
switching to another service provider. This is likely to increase the number of
our customers who decide to disconnect their service from us. Other pending
rulemakings, including those relating to intercarrier compensation, universal
service and VOIP regulations, could have a substantial adverse impact on our
operations.

Risks Related to the Acquisition of Commonwealth
- ------------------------------------------------

         There is no assurance that the acquisition of Commonwealth will occur.

         While we have received the requisite Hart-Scott Rodino and FCC
approvals, the acquisition of Commonwealth is still subject to a number of
conditions, including the approval of the Pennsylvania Public Utilities
Commission, or Pennsylvania PUC.

        The integration of Commonwealth following the acquisition may present
significant challenges.

                                       11

         We may face significant challenges in combining Commonwealth's
operations into our operations in a timely and efficient manner and in retaining
key Commonwealth personnel. The failure to integrate successfully and to manage
successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in
us not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, we
and Commonwealth expect to incur costs associated with transaction fees and
other costs related to the acquisition. We will also incur integration and
restructuring costs following the completion of the acquisition as we integrate
the businesses of Commonwealth with those of ours. Although we expect that the
realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the business will
offset incremental transaction, integration and restructuring costs over time,
we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved.

Risks Related to Technology
- ---------------------------

         In the future as competition intensifies within our markets, we may be
unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of our customers, and
may lose customers as a result.

         The telecommunications industry is subject to significant changes in
technology. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment, we will be
unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the needs or
expectations of our customers. Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure could
result in significant capital expenditures.

         In addition, rapidly changing technology in the telecommunications
industry may influence our customers to consider other service providers. For
example, we may be unable to retain customers who decide to replace their
wireline telephone service with wireless telephone service. In addition, VOIP
technology, which operates on broadband technology, now provides our competitors
with a low-cost alternative to provide voice services to our customers.

Item 1B