Item 1A.  Risk Factors
          ------------

Before you make an  investment  decision  with  respect to our  securities,  you
should  carefully  consider all the information we have included or incorporated
by reference in this Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC.
In particular,  you should carefully  consider the risk factors  described below
and read the risks and uncertainties related to "forward-looking  statements" as
set forth in the  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and  Results  of   Operations"   section  of  this  Form  10-K.  The  risks  and
uncertainties  described  below  are not  the  only  ones  facing  our  company.
Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we
currently  deem  immaterial  or that are not  specific  to us,  such as  general
economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations.

Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry
- ---------------------------------------------

         We face intense competition, which could adversely affect us.

         The telecommunications industry is extremely competitive and
competition is increasing. The traditional dividing lines between long distance,
local, wireless, cable and internet services are becoming increasingly blurred.
Through mergers and various service expansion strategies, services providers are
striving to provide integrated solutions both within and across geographic
markets. Our competitors include CLECs and other providers (or potential
providers) of services, such as internet service providers, or ISPs, wireless
companies, neighboring incumbents, VOIP providers and cable companies that may
provide services competitive with ours or services that we intend to introduce.
Competition is intense and increasing and we cannot assure you that we will be
able to compete effectively. For example, excluding the impact of the CTE and
GVN acquisitions, at December 31, 2007, we had 130,300 fewer access lines than
we had at December 31, 2006, and we believe wireless and cable telephony
providers have increased their market share in our markets. We expect to
continue to lose access lines and that competition with respect to all our
products and services will increase.

         We expect competition to intensify as a result of the entrance of new
competitors, penetration of existing competitors into new markets, changing
consumer behavior and the development of new technologies, products and
services. We cannot predict which of the many possible future technologies,
products or services will be important to maintain our competitive position or
what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies,
products or services. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on
marketing and on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive
factors affecting the industry, including a changing regulatory environment that
may affect our competitors and us differently, new services that may be
introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic
conditions and pricing strategies by competitors. Increasing competition may
reduce our revenues and increase our costs as well as require us to increase our
capital expenditures and thereby decrease our cash flow.

         Some of our competitors have superior resources, which may place us at
a cost and price disadvantage.

         Some of our current and potential competitors have market presence,
engineering, technical and marketing capabilities, and financial, personnel and
other resources substantially greater than ours. In addition, some of our
competitors can raise capital at a lower cost than we can. Consequently, some
competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network
infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies
and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other
opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and
sale of their products and services than we can. Additionally, the greater brand
name recognition of some competitors may require us to price our services at
lower levels in order to retain or obtain customers. Finally, the cost
advantages of some competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices
for an extended period of time if they so choose.

Risks Related to Our Business
- -----------------------------

         Decreases in certain types of our revenues will impact our
profitability.

                                       8


         Our Frontier business has been experiencing declining access lines,
switched access minutes of use, long distance prices, Federal and state
subsidies and related revenues because of economic conditions, increasing
competition, changing consumer behavior (such as wireless displacement of
wireline use, email use, instant messaging and increasing use of VOIP),
technology changes and regulatory constraints. These factors are likely to cause
our local network service, switched network access, long distance and subsidy
revenues to continue to decline, and these factors, together with the potential
need to increase our capital spending, may cause our cash generated by
operations to decrease.

         We may be unable to grow our revenue and cash flow despite the
initiatives we have implemented.

         We must produce adequate cash flow that, when combined with funds
available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to service our
debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes and maintain our current
dividend policy. We expect that our cash taxes, which increased significantly in
2007, will continue to increase in 2008 and 2009 due to our expectations of
continued profitability and the effects of fully utilizing our federal net
operating loss carryforwards and Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) tax credit
carryforwards that were generated in prior years. We have implemented several
growth initiatives, including increasing our marketing promotion/expenditures
and launching new products and services with a focus on areas that are growing
or demonstrate meaningful demand such as wireline and wireless high-speed
internet, the DISH satellite television product and our Peace of Mind computer
technical support. There is no assurance that these initiatives will result in
an improvement in our financial position or our results of operations.

         We may complete a significant business combination or other transaction
that could increase our shares outstanding, affect our debt, result in a change
in control, or all of the above.

         From time to time we evaluate potential acquisitions and other
arrangements, such as the Commonwealth and GVN acquisitions, that would extend
our geographic markets, expand our services, enlarge the capacity of our
networks or increase the types of services provided through our networks. If we
complete any acquisition or other arrangement, we may require additional
financing that could result in an increase in our shares outstanding and/or
debt, result in a change in control, or all of the above. There can be no
assurance that we will enter into any transaction.

         Our business is sensitive to the creditworthiness of our wholesale
customers.

         We have substantial business relationships with other
telecommunications carriers for whom we provide service. During the past few
years, several of our carrier customers have filed for bankruptcy. While these
bankruptcies have not had a material adverse effect on our business to date,
future bankruptcies in our industry could result in our loss of significant
customers, more price competition and uncollectible accounts receivable. As a
result, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely
affected.

Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources, and Capitalization
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

      Substantial debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us.

      We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We may also obtain
additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future
financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under our existing
indebtedness, which would increase our total debt.

      The significant negative consequences on our financial condition and
results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:

          *    limitations  on our ability to obtain  additional  debt or equity
               financing,  partially  due to the effects of the  current  credit
               environment;

          *    instances in which we are unable to meet the financial  covenants
               contained in our debt  agreements or to generate cash  sufficient
               to make  required debt  payments,  which  circumstances  have the
               potential  of  accelerating  the  maturity  of some or all of our
               outstanding indebtedness;

          *    the  allocation  of a  substantial  portion of our cash flow from
               operations  to service our debt,  thus reducing the amount of our
               cash flow  available  for  other  purposes,  including  operating
               costs,  capital expenditures and dividends that could improve our
               competitive position or results of operations;

                                       9


          *    requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of
               our core assets,  possibly on unfavorable  terms, to meet payment
               obligations;

          *    compromising   our   flexibility   to  plan  for,  or  react  to,
               competitive challenges in our business and the
               communications industry; and

          *    the  possibility  of our being put at a competitive  disadvantage
               with  competitors  who  do not  have  as  much  debt  as us,  and
               competitors  who may be in a more  favorable  position  to access
               additional capital resources.

         We will require substantial capital to upgrade and enhance our
operations.

         Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure will result in significant
capital expenditures. If this capital is not available when needed, our business
will be adversely affected. Increasing competition, offering new services,
improving the capabilities or reducing the maintenance costs of our plant may
cause our capital expenditures to increase in the future. In addition, our
ongoing annual dividend of $1.00 per share under our current policy utilizes a
significant portion of our cash generated by operations and therefore limits our
operating and financial flexibility and our ability to significantly increase
capital expenditures. While we believe that the amount of our dividend will
allow for adequate amounts of cash flow for capital spending and other purposes,
any material reduction in cash generated by operations and any increases in
capital expenditures, interest expense or cash taxes would reduce the amount of
cash generated by operations and available for payment of dividends. Losses of
access lines, the effects of increased competition, lower subsidy and access
revenues and the other factors described above may reduce our cash generated by
operations and may require us to increase capital expenditures. In addition, we
expect our cash paid for taxes to increase significantly in 2008 and 2009.

Risks Related to Regulation
- ---------------------------

         The access charge revenues we receive may be reduced at any time.

         A significant portion of our revenues ($349.4 million, or 15% in 2007)
is derived from access charges paid by IXCs for services we provide in
originating and terminating intrastate and interstate traffic. The amount of
access charge revenues we receive for these services is regulated by the FCC and
state regulatory agencies. Recent rulings regarding access charges have lowered
the amount of revenue we receive from this source. The FCC has an open
proceeding to address reform to access charges and other intercarrier
compensation. Additionally, some of the state commissions in the states where we
operate have proceedings to address intrastate access charges. We have also been
experiencing an increasing number of challenges from CLECs and other ILECs with
respect to our intrastate access charges in a number of states. Certain of those
challenges have led to formal complaints to the state PUCs. A material reduction
in the access revenues we receive would adversely affect our financial results.

         We are reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws.

         We receive a portion of our revenue ($130.0 million, or 6% in 2007)
from federal and state subsidies, including the federal high cost fund, federal
local switching support fund, federal universal service fund surcharge and
various state funds. FCC and state regulators are currently considering a number
of proposals for changing the manner in which eligibility for federal subsidies
is determined as well as the amounts of such subsidies. The FCC is also
reviewing the mechanism by which subsidies are funded. We cannot predict when or
how these matters will be decided nor the effect on our subsidy revenue.

         The federal high cost fund is our largest source of subsidy revenue
(approximately $33.1 million in 2007). We currently expect that as a result of
both an increase in the national average cost per loop and a decrease in our
cost structure, there is likely to be a decrease in the subsidy revenue earned
in 2008 through the federal high cost support fund.

         In addition, approximately $35.9 million, or 1% of our revenue
represents a surcharge to customers (local, long distance and IXC) which is
remitted to the FCC and recorded as an expense in "other operating expenses".

                                       10


         Our company and industry are highly regulated, imposing substantial
compliance costs and restricting our ability to compete in our target markets.

         As an incumbent, we are subject to significant regulation from Federal,
state and local authorities. This regulation restricts our ability to change our
rates, especially on our basic services, and imposes substantial compliance
costs on us. Regulation restricts our ability to compete and, in some
jurisdictions, it may restrict how we are able to expand our service offerings.
In addition, changes to the regulations that govern us may have an adverse
effect upon our business by reducing the allowable fees that we may charge,
imposing additional compliance costs, or otherwise changing the nature of our
operations and the competition in our industry.

         Customers are now permitted to retain their wireline number when
switching to another service provider. This is likely to increase the number of
our customers who decide to disconnect their service from us. Other pending
rulemakings, including those relating to intercarrier compensation, universal
service and VOIP regulations, could have a substantial adverse impact on our
operations.

Risks Related to Technology
- ---------------------------

         In the future as competition intensifies within our markets, we may be
unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of our customers, and may
lose customers as a result.

         The telecommunications industry is subject to significant changes in
technology. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment, we will be
unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the needs or
expectations of our customers. Replacing or upgrading our infrastructure could
result in significant capital expenditures.

         In addition, rapidly changing technology in the telecommunications
industry may influence our customers to consider other service providers. For
example, we may be unable to retain customers who decide to replace their
wireline telephone service with wireless telephone service. In addition, VOIP
technology, which operates on broadband technology, now provides our competitors
with a low-cost alternative to provide voice services to our customers.

Item 1B