Item 1A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding revenues and assets by geographic region, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.COMPETITIONSeveral factors determine our ability to compete successfully in the defense and business-aviation markets. While customers’ evaluation criteria vary, the principal competitive elements include:•the technical excellence, reliability and cost competitiveness of our products and services;•our ability to innovate and develop new products and technology that improve mission performance and adapt to dynamic threats;•successful program execution and on-time delivery of complex, integrated systems;•our global footprint and accessibility to customers;•our indigenous presence in the countries of several key customers;•the reputation and customer confidence derived from our past performance; and•the successful management of customer relationships.DEFENSE MARKET COMPETITIONThe U.S. government contracts with numerous domestic and foreign companies for products and services. We compete against other large platform and system-integration contractors as well as smaller companies that specialize in a particular technology or capability. Internationally, we compete with global defense contractors’ exports and the offerings of private and state-owned defense manufacturers based in the countries where we operate. Our Combat Systems group competes with a large number of domestic and foreign businesses. Our Marine Systems group has one primary competitor with which it also partners on the Virginia-class submarine program. Our Information Systems and Technology group competes with many companies, from large defense companies to small niche competitors with specialized technologies. The operating cycle of many of our major platform programs can result in sustained periods of program continuity when we perform successfully.We are involved in teaming and subcontracting relationships with some of our competitors. Competitions for major defense programs often require companies to form teams to bring together broad capabilities to meet the customer’s requirements. Opportunities associated with these programs include roles as the 14program’s integrator, overseeing and coordinating the efforts of all participants on the team, or as a provider of a specific program component or subsystem element.BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT MARKET COMPETITIONThe Aerospace group has several competitors for each of its Gulfstream products, with more competitors for the shorter-range aircraft. Key competitive factors include aircraft safety, reliability and performance; comfort and in-flight productivity; service quality, global footprint and responsiveness; technological and new-product innovation; and price. We believe that Gulfstream competes effectively in all of these areas.The Aerospace group competes worldwide in its business-jet aircraft services business primarily on the basis of price, quality and timeliness. In its maintenance, repair and FBO businesses, the group competes with several other large companies as well as a number of smaller companies, particularly in the maintenance business. In its completions business, the group competes with other OEMs, as well as third-party providers. BACKLOGOur total backlog represents the estimated remaining value of work to be performed under firm contracts and includes funded and unfunded portions. For additional discussion of backlog, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Summary backlog information for each of our business groups follows:      2012 TotalBacklog NotExpected to BeCompleted in 2013December 312011 2012   Funded     Unfunded     Total     Funded     Unfunded   Total     Aerospace$17,618 $289 $17,907 $15,458 $209 $15,667 $9,886Combat Systems10,283 1,137 11,420 7,442 1,298 8,740 3,221Marine Systems9,364 9,140 18,504 13,495 3,606 17,101 11,323Information Systems and Technology7,434 2,145 9,579 8,130 1,643 9,773 2,799Total backlog$44,699 $12,711 $57,410 $44,525$6,756 $51,281 $27,229RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTTo foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct sustained R&D activities as part of our normal business operations. In the commercial sector, most of our Aerospace group’s R&D activities support Gulfstream’s product enhancement and development programs. In our U.S. defense businesses, we conduct customer-sponsored R&D activities under government contracts and company-sponsored R&D. In accordance with government regulations, we recover a significant portion of company-sponsored R&D expenditures through overhead charges to U.S. government contracts. For more information on our R&D activities, including our expenditures for the past three years, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.15INTELLECTUAL PROPERTYWe develop technology, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. government holds licenses to many of our patents developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents. Although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business.EMPLOYEESOn December 31, 2012, we and our subsidiaries had 92,200 employees, approximately one-fifth of whom work under collective agreements with various labor unions and worker representatives. Agreements covering approximately 6 percent of total employees are due to expire in 2013. Historically, we have renegotiated labor agreements without any significant disruption to operating activities.RAW MATERIALS, SUPPLIERS AND SEASONALITYWe depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials, components and subsystems. These supply networks can experience price fluctuations and capacity constraints, which can put pressure on our costs. Effective management and oversight of suppliers and subcontractors is an important element of our successful performance. We attempt to mitigate these risks with our suppliers by entering into long-term agreements and leveraging company-wide agreements to achieve economies of scale, and by negotiating flexible pricing terms in our customer contracts. We have not experienced, and do not foresee, significant difficulties in obtaining the materials, components or supplies necessary for our business operations.Our business is not generally seasonal in nature. The timing of contract awards, the availability of funding from the customer, the incurrence of contract costs and unit deliveries are the primary drivers of our revenue recognition. In the United States, these factors are influenced by the federal government’s budget cycle. Internationally, work for many of our government customers is weighted toward the end of the calendar year, generally resulting in increasing revenues and earnings over the course of the year. REGULATORY MATTERSU.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTSU.S. government contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) govern the majority of our contracts. The FAR mandates uniform policies and procedures for U.S. government acquisitions and purchased services. Also, individual agencies can have acquisition regulations that provide implementing language for the FAR or that supplement the FAR. For example, the DoD implements the FAR through the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation supplement (DFARs). For all federal government entities, the FAR regulates the phases of any product or service acquisition, including:•acquisition planning,•competition requirements,•contractor qualifications,•protection of source selection and vendor information, and•acquisition procedures.16In addition, the FAR addresses the allowability of our costs, while the CAS address how those costs can be allocated to contracts. The FAR subjects us to audits and other government reviews covering issues such as cost, performance and accounting practices relating to our contracts.INTERNATIONALOur international sales are subject to the applicable foreign government regulations and procurement policies and practices, as well as U.S. policies and regulations. We are also subject to regulations governing investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and import-export control.BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFTThe Aerospace group is subject to FAA regulation in the United States and other similar aviation regulatory authorities internationally, including the Civil Aviation Administration of Israel (CAAI), the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC). For an aircraft to be manufactured and sold, the model must receive a type certificate from the appropriate aviation authority and each aircraft must receive a certificate of airworthiness. Aircraft outfitting and completions also require approval by the appropriate aviation authority, which often is accomplished through a supplemental type certificate. Aviation authorities can require changes to a specific aircraft or model type before granting approval. Maintenance facilities and charter operations must be licensed by aviation authorities as well.ENVIRONMENTALWe are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations cover the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes. We are directly or indirectly involved in environmental investigations or remediation at some of our current and former facilities and at third-party sites that we do not own but where we have been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. As a PRP, we potentially are liable to the government or third parties for the cost of remediating contamination at a relevant site. In cases where we have been designated a PRP, generally we seek to mitigate these environmental liabilities through available insurance coverage and by pursuing appropriate cost-recovery actions. In the unlikely event we are required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the current statutory framework would allow us to pursue contributions from other PRPs. We regularly assess our compliance status and management of environmental matters.Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of contaminated sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. Historically, these costs have not been material. Environmental costs often are recoverable under our contracts with the U.S. government. Based on information currently available and current U.S. government policies relating to cost recovery, we do not expect continued compliance with environmental regulations to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. For additional information relating to the impact of environmental matters, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.AVAILABLE INFORMATIONWe file several types of reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These reports and information include an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements. Free copies of these items are made available on our website (www.generaldynamics.com) as soon as practicable and through the General Dynamics investor relations office at (703) 876-3583.17These items also can be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAn investment in our common stock or debt securities is subject to risks and uncertainties. Investors should consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our securities.Investment risks can be market-wide as well as unique to a specific industry or company. The market risks faced by an investor in our stock are similar to the uncertainties faced by investors in a broad range of industries. There are some risks that apply more specifically to our business.Because three of our four business groups serve the defense market, our revenues are concentrated with the U.S. government. This customer relationship involves some specific risks. In addition, our sales to international customers expose us to different financial and legal risks. Despite the varying nature of our U.S. and international defense and business-aviation operations and the markets they serve, each group shares some common risks, such as the ongoing development of high-technology products and the price, availability and quality of commodities and subsystems.The U.S. government provides a significant portion of our revenues. In each of the past three years, approximately two-thirds of our revenues were from the U.S. government. U.S. defense spending is driven by threats to national security. While the country has been under an elevated threat level for more than a decade, competing demands for federal funds could pressure all areas of spending. A decrease in U.S. government defense spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed or terminated, which could have some impact on our financial performance. Several factors are currently affecting U.S. defense spending, including:•the fact that the Congress has not passed a fiscal year (FY) 2013 budget, resulting in the U.S. government, including the DoD, operating under a continuing resolution (CR) that provides funding at FY 2012 levels through March 2013; •a $487 billion, or approximately 8 percent, reduction to previously-planned defense funding over the next decade as mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA). These cuts were incorporated into the FY 2013 proposed defense budget; and•a sequester mechanism, also part of the BCA, that would impose an additional $500 billion of defense cuts over nine years starting in FY 2013, which represents approximately 9 percent of  planned defense funding over the period. While we are unable to predict the exact impact on our programs or financial outlook, these factors, particularly the funding reductions of the magnitude imposed by the sequester mechanism as written, could in the aggregate have material adverse operational and financial consequences, depending on how the cuts are allocated across the budget. Due to its shorter-cycle businesses, the Information Systems and Technology outlook is more sensitive than our other defense groups to any additional budget cuts that may occur. For additional information relating to the U.S. defense budget, see the Business Environment section of 18Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.U.S. government contracts are not always fully funded at inception and are subject to termination. Our U.S. government revenues are funded by agency budgets that operate on an October-to-September fiscal year. Early each calendar year, the President of the United States presents to the Congress the budget for the upcoming fiscal year. This budget proposes funding levels for every federal agency and is the result of months of policy and program reviews throughout the Executive branch. For the remainder of the year, the appropriations and authorization committees of the Congress review the President’s budget proposals and establish the funding levels for the upcoming fiscal year. Once these levels are enacted into law, the Executive Office of the President administers the funds to the agencies.There are two primary risks associated with the U.S. government budget cycle. First, the annual process may be delayed or disrupted. For example, changes in congressional schedules due to elections or other legislative priorities, or negotiations for program funding levels can interrupt the process. If the annual budget is not approved by the beginning of the government fiscal year, portions of the U.S. government can shut down or operate under a CR that maintains spending at prior year levels, which can impact funding for our programs and timing of new awards. Second, the Congress typically appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis, even though contract performance may extend over many years. Future revenues under existing multi-year contracts are conditioned on the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. Changes in appropriations in subsequent years may impact the funding available for these programs. Delays or changes in funding can impact the timing of available funds or lead to changes in program content.In addition, U.S. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate a contract, in whole or in part, for convenience. If a contract is terminated for convenience, a contractor usually is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work performed. The government may also terminate a contract for default in the event of a breach by the contractor. If a contract is terminated for default, the government in most cases pays only for the work it has accepted. The loss of anticipated funding or the termination of multiple or large programs could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings.Government contractors are subject to audit by the U.S. government. U.S. government agencies routinely audit and review government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, labor, accounting and information systems. In some cases, audits may result in contractor costs not being reimbursed or subject to repayment. If an audit or investigation were to result in allegations against a contractor of improper or illegal activities, civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions could result, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, reputational harm could result if allegations of impropriety were made.Our Aerospace group is subject to changing customer demand for business aircraft. Our Aerospace group’s business-jet market is driven by the demand for business-aviation products and services by business, individual and government customers in the United States and around the world. The group’s results also depend on other factors, including general economic conditions, the availability of credit and trends in capital goods markets. In addition, if customers default on existing contracts and the contracts are not replaced, the group’s anticipated revenues and profitability could be materially reduced as a result.19 Earnings and margins depend on our ability to perform under our contracts. When agreeing to contractual terms, our management team makes assumptions and projections about future conditions or events. These projections assess:•the productivity and availability of labor,•the complexity of the work to be performed,•the cost and availability of materials and components, and•schedule requirements.If there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if the risks under our contracts are not managed adequately, the profitability of our contracts may be adversely affected. This could affect our earnings and margins materially.Our earnings and margins depend in part on subcontractor and vendor performance. We rely on other companies to provide materials, components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors also perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. We depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet our contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements. We manage our supplier base carefully to avoid customer problems. However, we sometimes rely on only one or two sources of supply that, if disrupted, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our customer commitments. Our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers is unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner.International sales and operations are subject to different, and sometimes greater, risks that may be associated with doing business in foreign countries. In some countries there is increased chance for economic, legal or political changes, and procurement procedures may be less robust or mature, which may complicate the contracting process. Our international business may be sensitive to changes in a foreign government’s budgets, leadership and national priorities, including the current European fiscal condition. International transactions can involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange-rate variability and differing legal systems. An unfavorable event or trend in any one or more of these factors could materially adversely affect revenues and earnings associated with our international business. In addition, some international government customers require contractors to enter into letters of credit, performance or surety bonds, bank guarantees and other similar arrangements or to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, that require us to satisfy certain requirements. If we do not satisfy these requirements, our future revenues and earnings may be materially adversely affected.Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and technologies and maintain a qualified workforce to meet the needs of our customers. Many of the products and services we provide involve sophisticated technologies and engineering, with related complex manufacturing and system integration processes. Our customers’ requirements change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop, manufacture and provide innovative products and services and bring those offerings to market quickly at cost-effective prices. Because of the highly specialized nature of our business, we must hire and retain the skilled and qualified personnel necessary to perform the services required by our customers. If we are unable to develop new products that meet customers’ changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, our future revenues and earnings may be materially adversely affected.20We have made and expect to continue to make investments, including acquisitions and joint ventures, that involve risks and uncertainties. When evaluating potential mergers and acquisitions, we make judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets and the risks and costs of potential liabilities based on information available to us at the time of the transaction. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends on multiple factors, including our integration of the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying products, capabilities or technologies, market conditions following the acquisition and acquired liabilities. These factors could materially adversely affect our financial results, including future impairment charges.Our business could be negatively impacted by cyber security events and other disruptions. As a defense contractor, we face various cyber security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, as well as threats to physical security. We also design and manage information technology systems for various customers. We generally face the same security threats for these systems as for our own. Accordingly, we maintain information security policies and procedures for managing all systems. If any of these threats were to materialize, the event could cause harm to our business and our reputation and challenge our eligibility for future work on sensitive or classified systems for U.S. government customers, as well as negatively impact   our results of operations materially.21FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSThis Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management’s expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “believes,” “scheduled,” “outlook,” “estimates,” “should” and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These include but are not limited to projections of revenues, earnings, operating margins, segment performance, cash flows, contract awards, aircraft production, deliveries and backlog. Forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual future results and trends may differ materially from what is forecast in forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed in this section.All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to General Dynamics or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this report.ITEM 1B