Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K Report. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.




Operating Segments

 

Segment revenue and profit information and additional financial data and commentary on recent financial results for operating segments are provided in the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.




Operating businesses that are reported as segments include Power & Water, Oil & Gas, Energy Management, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation, Home & Business Solutions and GE Capital. Net earnings of GECC and the effect of transactions between segments are eliminated to arrive at total consolidated data. A summary description of each of our operating segments follows.




On February 22, 2012, we merged our wholly-owned subsidiary, GECS, with and into GECS’ wholly-owned subsidiary, GECC. Our financial services segment, GE Capital, continues to comprise the continuing operations of GECC, which now include the run-off insurance operations previously held and managed in GECS. Unless otherwise indicated, references to GECC and the GE Capital segment in this Form 10-K Report relate to the entity or segment as they exist subsequent to the February 22, 2012 merger.




Effective October 1, 2012, we reorganized the former Energy Infrastructure segment into three segments – Power & Water, Oil & Gas and Energy Management and we began reporting these as separate segments beginning with this Form 10-K Report. We also reorganized our Home & Business Solutions segment by transferring our Intelligent Platforms business to Energy Management. Results for 2012 and prior periods in this Form 10-K Report are reported on this basis.








  



(4)

 



  




We also continue our longstanding practice of providing supplemental information about the businesses within GE Capital.




Power & Water

 

Power & Water (19.2%, 17.4% and 16.6% of consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively) is a leader in the field of development, implementation and improvement of products and technologies that harness resources such as wind, oil, gas and water to produce electric power.




Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa.




Power & Water serves power generation, industrial, government and other customers worldwide with products and services related to energy production. We sell gas turbines and generators that are used principally in power plants for generation of electricity and for industrial cogeneration and mechanical drive applications. We are a leading provider of Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) technology design and development. IGCC systems convert coal and other hydrocarbons into synthetic gas that is used as the primary fuel for gas turbines in combined-cycle systems. IGCC systems produce fewer air pollutants compared with traditional pulverized coal power plants. We sell steam turbines and generators to the electric utility industry and to private industrial customers for cogeneration applications. We offer wind turbines as part of our renewable energy portfolio, which also includes solar technology. We also sell aircraft engine derivatives for use as industrial power sources. Nuclear reactors, fuel and support services for both new and installed boiling water reactors are offered through joint ventures with Hitachi and Toshiba. We provide our customers with solutions to meet their needs through a broad portfolio of aftermarket services, including equipment upgrades, long-term maintenance service agreements, repairs, equipment installation, monitoring and diagnostics, asset management and performance optimization tools, remote performance testing and Dry Low NOx (DLN) tuning. We continue to invest in advanced technology development that will provide more value to our customers and more efficient solutions that comply with today’s strict environmental regulations.




Power & Water also offers water treatment solutions for industrial and municipal water systems including the supply and related services of specialty chemicals, water purification systems, pumps, valves, filters and fluid handling equipment for improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems, including mobile treatment systems and desalination processes.




On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Dresser, Inc., which broadened the product portfolio with technologies for gas engines.




Power & Water is party to revenue sharing programs that share the financial results of certain aeroderivative lines. These businesses are controlled by Power & Water, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2012, such counterparty interests ranged from 16% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.




Worldwide competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for power generation is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as we plan for future development.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Oil & Gas

 

Oil & Gas (10.3%, 9.2% and 6.3% of consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively) helps oil and gas companies make more efficient and sustainable use of the world's energy resources.




Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, Australia, South America and Africa.








  



(5)

 



  




Oil & Gas supplies mission critical equipment for the global oil and gas industry, used in applications spanning the entire value chain from drilling and completion through production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and pipeline compression, pipeline inspection, and downstream processing in refineries and petrochemical plants. The business designs and manufactures surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders, high pressure reactors, industrial power generation and a broad portfolio of auxiliary equipment.




To ensure that the installed base is maintained appropriately, our service business has over 40 service centers and workshops in the world's main oil and gas extraction and production regions. The business also provides upgrades to customers’ machines, using the latest available technology, to extend production capability and environmental performance. We also provide pipeline integrity solutions, sensor-based measurement, inspection, asset condition monitoring, controls, and radiation measurement solutions. Oil & Gas also offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current.




On February 4, 2011 and April 26, 2011, we completed the acquisitions of Wellstream PLC and the Well Support division of John Wood Group PLC, respectively.  Wellstream PLC expands the Oil & Gas portfolio with flexible subsea risers and flow lines. The Well Support division of John Wood Group PLC adds equipment, including electrical submersible pumps, that helps extract more oil and gas from mature fields. On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Dresser, Inc. which broadens the Oil & Gas product portfolio in control and relief valves, measurement, regulation and control solutions for gas and fuel distributions.




Demand for oil and gas equipment and services is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as we plan for future development.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Energy Management

 

Energy Management (5.0%, 4.4% and 3.5% of consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively) designs, manufactures and services leading technology solutions for the delivery, management, conversion and optimization of electrical power for customers across multiple energy-intensive industries.




Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East.




Energy Management provides integrated electrical products and systems used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. We also provide customer-focused solutions centered on the delivery and control of electric power, and a full portfolio of field services including engineering, inspection, mechanical and emergency services. Energy Management also provides advanced products and services that modernize the grid, from the power plant to the power consumer, such as protection and control, industrial strength communications, smart meters, monitoring & diagnostics, visualization software and advanced analytics. We manufacture advanced motor, drives and control technologies to improve the operational efficiency of energy intensive industries such as metals, mining, marine, oil and gas.  Energy Management also provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, single board computers, motion control and operator interfaces.








  



(6)

 



  




 

On March 2, 2011 and September 2, 2011, we completed the acquisitions of Lineage Power Holdings, Inc. (Lineage Power) and Converteam, respectively. The acquisition of Lineage Power, a provider of high-efficiency power conversion infrastructure technology and services for the telecommunications and datacenter industries, continues the expansion of Energy’s offerings from the electric grid to datacenters, cell towers, routers, servers and circuit board electronics. Converteam, a provider of electrification and automation equipment and systems, adds significant product and service capabilities in power electronics, industrial automation and process controls.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Aviation

 

Aviation (13.6%, 12.8% and 11.8% of consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively) is one of the world’s leading providers of jet engines and related services with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.




Aviation produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of range: short/medium, intermediate and long-range, as well as executive and regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in a joint venture with Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd.




Aviation is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are shared. These agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing programs.




Joint ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities. Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and retains related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance, LLC.




Revenue sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2012, such counterparty interests ranged from 1% to 47% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.




Aviation also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products, mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components for use in both military and commercial aircraft.




We provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under long-term maintenance contracts.




On December 21, 2012, we announced an agreement to purchase the aviation business of Avio S.p.A., a manufacturer of aviation propulsion components and systems, for $4.3 billion.








  



(7)

 



  




The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards.




Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in technology, the relatively small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each other.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Healthcare

 

Healthcare (12.4%, 12.3% and 11.3% of consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively) is one of the world’s leading providers of essential healthcare technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries.  Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Australia.




Healthcare has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, and helping physicians tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast, non-invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the emergency room, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or brain disorders. With diagnostic imaging systems such as Magnetic Resonance (MR), Computed Tomography (CT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanners, X-ray, nuclear imaging, digital mammography, and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare-manufactured technologies include patient and resident monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and purification, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research, including existing and a pipeline of precision molecular diagnostics in development for neurology, cardiology and oncology applications.




Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management, information technologies and customer productivity services.




We compete with a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services providers. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Products and services are sold worldwide primarily to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market.




Throughout the world, we deliver healthymagination solutions that provide greater efficiency to help control costs, better quality to improve patient outcomes, and extended access to healthcare for patients in underserved markets.




Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA), as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.








  



(8)

 



  




Transportation

 

Transportation (3.8%, 3.3% and 2.3% of consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively) is a global technology leader and supplier to the railroad, marine, drilling and mining industries.  We serve customers in more than 100 countries in North America, Europe, Asia, South America, Africa and Australia.




Transportation manufactures high-horsepower diesel-electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series™ which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Tier III requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. We announced the launch of our Energy Storage business in 2012. GE's Durathon Battery technology is designed for energy storage solutions for stationary and motive applications in the telecommunications, power generation, grid operation and energy management applications. Also, on November 30, 2012, we completed the acquisition of Industrea Limited, a provider of mining products and services with a focus in underground mining.




Transportation provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information-based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




 

Home & Business Solutions

 

Home & Business Solutions (5.4%, 5.2% and 5.3% of consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics − competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Home & Business Solutions’ products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting products are directed towards commercial and industrial applications. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses.




We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Our brands include GE Monogram®, GE Profile™, GE®, Hotpoint® and GE Café™. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in-home repair and aftermarket parts.




We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity discharge, light-emitting diode, automotive and miniature products.




We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.








  



(9)

 



  




GE Capital

 

GE Capital (31.2%, 33.3% and 33.3% of consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively) businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GE’s industry-specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure and healthcare to capitalize on market-specific opportunities.




During 2012, GE Capital provided approximately $107 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended approximately $96 billion of credit to approximately 57 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 37,100 new commercial customers and 34,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2012 and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 243,000 commercial customers and 201,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S.




Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines.




Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia.




GE Capital has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses that are underperforming or that are deemed to be non-strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward.




Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL)

 

CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid-market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial-related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries.




In 2011, we completed the sale of our CLL marine container leasing business, which consists of our controlling interests in the GE SeaCo joint venture along with other owned marine container assets, and our CLL trailer fleet services business in Mexico.




We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. In recent years, there has been a disruption in the capital markets and in access to and availability of capital as well as the exit of some competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity.




Consumer

 

Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers’ needs. These products include, on a global basis, private-label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending.








  



(10)

 



  




In January 2013, we acquired the deposit business of MetLife Bank, N.A., which is an online banking platform with approximately $6.4 billion in U.S. retail deposits that will allow us to better serve our customers.




In 2011, we entered into agreements to sell our Consumer Singapore business and our Consumer home lending operations in Australia and New Zealand (Australian Home Lending) and classified them as discontinued operations.  Both dispositions were completed during 2011.




In the first quarter of 2011, we sold a substantial portion of our Garanti Bank equity investment. During 2012, we sold our remaining equity interest in Garanti Bank, which was classified as an available-for-sale security.




In 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011.




In 2010, we committed to sell our Consumer business in Canada, which was completed during 2011; in 2010, we also purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid-sized retailers and dealers.




Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumer’s capacity to repay debt.




Real Estate

 

Real Estate offers a range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re-capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating-rate, and are secured by existing income-producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax-exempt bonds.




We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write-offs.




In 2012, we completed the sale of a portion of our Business Properties portfolio (Business Property), including certain commercial loans, the origination and servicing platforms and the servicing rights on loans previously securitized by GECC. The portion retained comprises our owner-occupied/credit tenant portfolio.




Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.













  



(11)

  



  




Energy Financial Services

 

Energy Financial Services invests in long-lived, capital-intensive energy projects and companies by providing structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad-based commercial finance. We also invest in early-to-later-stage companies that are pursuing new technologies and services in the energy industry. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency.




We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.




GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS)

 

GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing services to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co-sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports.




We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing.




GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations

 

GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of run-off sponsored special purpose entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capital’s five operating businesses; results of our run-off insurance operations remaining in continuing operations attributable to GECC; unallocated corporate costs; and certain non-allocated amounts determined by the GECC Chairman.




GE Corporate Items and Eliminations

 

GE Corporate Items and Eliminations includes the results of disposed businesses in which we retain an unconsolidated interest (including NBC Universal LLC), principal retirement plan costs and unallocated corporate costs, which includes research and development spending (including our Global Research Centers) and costs related to our Global Growth & Operations organization.




Discontinued Operations

 

Discontinued operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) (our Central American bank and card business), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico, Consumer Singapore, Australian Home Lending and Consumer Ireland.




For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.




Geographic Data

 

Geographic data is reported in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.




Additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in the Geographic Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.













  



(12)

  



  




Orders and Backlog

 

Orders and backlog information is provided in the Segment Operations and Other Information sections in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Research and Development

 

Research and development expenditures information is provided in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and the Other Information section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Environmental Matters

 

Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Additional information is provided in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Employees and Employee Relations

 

At year-end 2012, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 305,000 persons, of whom approximately 134,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. “Selected Financial Data” of this Form 10-K Report.




Approximately 17,600 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 108 different union local bargaining units. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC. During 2011, we negotiated four-year agreements with most of our U.S. unions.  These agreements modestly increase ongoing costs over the term of the contracts on an aggregate basis.  However, the agreements also implement new features that focus on cost containment for health and pension plans.  Effective January 1, 2012, all production employees participate in a new consumer-directed health plan.  In addition, production employees who commence service on or after that date will not be eligible to participate in the GE Pension Plan, but will participate in a defined contribution retirement program.




Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 3,500 employees.




Executive Officers

 

See Part III, Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this Form 10-K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant.




Other

 

Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials.




We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.













  



(13)

  



  




Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow.

 




  

% of Consolidated Revenues

  

  

2012 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  


Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies

  

3 


%

  

3 


%

  

3 


%



Aviation segment defense-related sales

  

3 

  
  

3 

  
  

3 

  


  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  






GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company.




The Company’s Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828-0001. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.

 

Item 1A. Risk Factors

 

The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 1. “Business”. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

 

Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our businesses encounter can be found in the MD&A section and in the business descriptions in Item 1. “Business” of this Form 10-K Report. Below, we describe certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will affect our future results.




Our growth is subject to global economic and political risks.

We operate in virtually every part of the world and serve customers in more than 100 countries. In 2012, approximately 52% of our revenue was attributable to activities outside the United States.  Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition and geopolitical risks.  They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility and actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location.  While some of these global economic and political risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful, and our ability to engage in such mitigation may decrease or become even more costly as a result of more volatile market conditions.   




We are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and government policies that may change in significant ways.

Our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies. There can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. In particular, U.S. and non-U.S. governments are undertaking a substantial revision of the regulation and supervision of bank and non-

 

 






  



(14)

  



  




bank financial institutions, consumer lending, the over-the-counter derivatives market and tax laws and regulations, which changes may have an effect on GE’s and GE Capital’s structure, operations, liquidity, capital requirements, effective tax rate and performance. For example, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, GE Capital is subject to prudential oversight by the Federal Reserve, which subjects us to increased and evolving regulatory requirements. We are also subject to a number of trade control laws and regulations that may affect our ability to sell our products in global markets. In addition, we are subject to regulatory risks from laws that reduce the allowable lending rate or limit consumer borrowing, local capital requirements that may increase the risk of not being able to retrieve assets, and changes to tax law that may affect our return on investments. For example, GE’s effective tax rate is reduced because active business income earned and indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S. rate. A significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain active financial services income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits U.S. financial services companies to compete more effectively with non-U.S. financial institutions in global markets. This provision, which had expired at the end of 2011, was reinstated in January 2013 retroactively for two years through the end of 2013. This provision also had been scheduled to expire and had been extended by Congress on six previous occasions, but there can be no assurance that it will continue to be extended. In the event the provision is not extended after 2013, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets. If this provision is not extended, we expect our effective tax rate to increase significantly after 2014. In addition, efforts by public and private sectors to control the growth of healthcare costs may lead to lower reimbursements and increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. Continued government scrutiny, including reviews of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) medical device pre-market authorization and post-market surveillance processes, may impact the requirements for marketing our products and slow our ability to introduce new products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, we have been, and expect to continue, participating in U.S. and international governmental programs, which require us to comply with strict governmental regulations. Inability to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our status in these projects and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.




We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks.

We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in virtually every part of the world. We, our representatives, and the industries in which we operate are at times being reviewed or investigated by regulators and other governmental authorities, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Additionally, we and our subsidiaries are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. These include the dredging of polychlorinated biphenyls from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State, as described in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report. We are also subject to certain other legal proceedings described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K Report. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time.

 

The success of our business depends on achieving our strategic objectives, including through acquisitions, joint ventures, dispositions and restructurings.

With respect to acquisitions, joint ventures and restructuring actions, we may not achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration and collaboration challenges, such as personnel and technology. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated cost savings from restructuring actions, which could result in lower margin rates. We also participate in a number of joint ventures with other companies or government enterprises in various markets around the world, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. We also continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic 

 

 


 



  



(15)

  



  




objectives. Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. After reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside our control could affect our future financial results.

 

Sustained increases in costs of pension and healthcare benefits may reduce our profitability.

Our results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions we use to estimate pension expense for 2013 are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to Accumulated gains (losses) – net, Benefit plans. At the end of 2012, the GE Pension Plan was underfunded, on a U.S. GAAP basis, by $13.3 billion, and the GE Supplementary Pension Plan, an unfunded plan, had a projected benefit obligation of $5.5 billion. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Pension Assumptions in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report. Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Failure to achieve expected returns on plan assets driven by various factors, which could include a continued environment of low interest rates or sustained market volatility, could also result in an increase to the amount of cash we would be required to contribute to pension plans. In addition, upward pressure on the cost of providing healthcare benefits to current employees and retirees may increase future funding obligations. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce our profitability.




Conditions in the financial and credit markets may affect the availability and cost of funding.

As disclosed in more detail in the Liquidity and Borrowings section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report, a large portion of our borrowings is in the form of commercial paper and long-term debt. We continue to rely on the availability of the unsecured debt markets to access funding for term and commercial paper maturities for 2013 and beyond and to fund our operations without incurring additional U.S. tax. In addition, we rely on the availability of the commercial paper markets to refinance maturing commercial paper debt throughout the year. In order to further diversify our funding sources, GE Capital continues to expand its reliance on alternative sources of funding, including bank deposits, securitizations and other asset-based funding. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in increasing the diversification of our funding sources or that the short and long-term credit markets will be available or, if available, that the cost of funding will not substantially increase and affect our overall profitability. Factors that may affect the availability of funding or cause an increase in our funding costs include: a decreased reliance on short-term funding, such as commercial paper, in favor of longer-term funding arrangements; decreased capacity and increased competition among debt issuers; increased competition for deposits in our affiliate banks’ markets; and potential market disruptions or other impacts arising in the United States or Europe from developments in sovereign debt situations. If GE Capital’s cost of funding were to increase, it may adversely affect its competitive position and result in lower net interest margins, earnings and cash flows as well as lower returns on its shareowner’s equity and invested capital.




If conditions in the financial markets deteriorate, they may adversely affect the business and results of operations of GE Capital as well as the soundness of financial institutions and governments we deal with.

If conditions in the financial markets deteriorate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover fully the value of certain assets, including goodwill, intangibles and tax assets. In addition, deterioration in the economy and in default and recovery rates could require us to increase allowances for loan losses, impairments or write-offs, which, 

 










  



(16)

  



  




depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.




In addition, GE Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, including sovereign governments, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, GE Capital’s credit risk may be increased when the value of collateral held cannot be realized through sale or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has exposure to these financial institutions in the form of cash on deposit and unsecured debt instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating to credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties (as described in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report), which are designed to limit credit and liquidity risk. There can be no assurance, however, that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of financial assets would not materially and adversely affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of operations.

 

The real estate markets in which GE Capital participates are highly dependent on economic conditions, the deterioration of which may adversely affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of operations.

GE Capital participates in the commercial real estate market in two ways: it provides financing for the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of various types of properties, and, in a limited number of markets, it also acquires equity positions in various types of properties or real estate investments. The profitability of real estate investments is largely dependent upon the economic conditions in specific geographic markets in which the properties are located and the perceived value of those markets at the time of sale. The level of transactions for real estate assets continues to remain below historical norms in several markets in which GE Capital operates. High levels of unemployment, slowdown in business activity, excess inventory capacity and limited availability of credit may continue to adversely affect the value of real estate assets and collateral to real estate loans GE Capital holds. Under current market and credit conditions, there can be no assurance as to the level of sales GE Capital will complete or the net sales proceeds it will realize. Also, occupancy rates and market rent levels may worsen, which may result in impairments to the carrying value of equity investments or increases in the allowance for loan losses on commercial real estate loans.

 

GE Capital is also a residential mortgage lender in certain geographic markets outside the United States that have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by declines in real estate values and home sale volumes, job losses, government austerity measures and mandated programs, consumer bankruptcies and other factors that may negatively impact the credit performance of our mortgage loans. Our allowance for loan losses on these mortgage loans is based on our analysis of current and historical delinquency, property values and loan performance, as well as other management assumptions that may be inaccurate predictors of credit performance in this environment. There can be no assurance that, in this environment, credit performance will not be materially worse than anticipated and, as a result, materially and adversely affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of operations.

 

Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.

The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. As of December 31, 2012, GE and GECC’s long-term unsecured debt credit rating from Standard and Poor’s Ratings Service (S&P) was AA+ (the second highest of 22 rating categories) with a stable outlook. The long-term unsecured debt credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) for GE was Aa3 (the fourth highest of 21 rating categories) and for GECC was A1 (the fifth highest of 21 credit ratings), both with stable outlooks. As of December 31, 2012, GE and GECC’s short-term credit rating from S&P was A-1+ (the highest rating category of six categories) and from Moody’s was P-1 (the highest rating category of four categories). There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. Various debt and derivative instruments, guarantees and 

 










  



(17)

  



  




covenants would require posting additional capital or collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade, which, depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital position.




Current conditions in the global economy and the major industries we serve also may materially and adversely affect the business and results of operations of our non-financial businesses.

The business and operating results of our industrial businesses have been, and will continue to be, affected by worldwide economic conditions, including conditions in the air and rail transportation, energy generation, healthcare, home building and other major industries we serve. As a result of slower global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, continued high unemployment levels, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies, government deficit reduction and austerity measures, including sequestrations, and other challenges affecting the global economy, some of our government and non-government customers have experienced deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services, including large infrastructure projects, and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. In particular, the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and international economies. An extended period of slow growth in the U.S. or internationally that results in the loss of business and leisure traffic could have a material adverse effect on our airline customers and the viability of their business. Service contract cancellations or customer dynamics such as early aircraft retirements could affect our ability to fully recover our contract costs and estimated earnings. Further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. If slower growth in the global economy continues for a significant period or there is additional significant deterioration in the global economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.




Increased IT security requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data. 

Increased global IT security vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted IT-related attacks pose a risk to the security of our and our customers’ and suppliers’ systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. We also may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers, suppliers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.




We may face operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations, and we are dependent on maintenance of existing product lines, market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for continued revenue growth.

We produce highly sophisticated products and provide specialized services for both our and third-party products that incorporate or use leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. While we have built extensive operational processes to ensure that the design, manufacture and servicing of such products meet the most rigorous quality standards, there can be no assurance that we or our customers or other third parties will not experience operational process failures or other problems, including through intentional acts, that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Such operational failures or quality issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the markets in which we operate are subject to technological change and require skilled talent. Our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to customize products, to respond to technological change and to execute our product development in line with our projected cost estimates.













  



(18)

  



  




Our intellectual property portfolio may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to ours.

Our patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently developing or selling products and services similar to or duplicative of ours, and there can be no assurance that the resources invested by us to protect our intellectual property will be sufficient or that our intellectual property portfolio will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology. We could also face competition in some countries where we have not invested in an intellectual property portfolio. We also face attempts by third-parties to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems for the purpose of improperly acquiring our trade secrets or confidential business information. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position and the value of our investment in research and development. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. If GE is found to infringe any third-party rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services. Also, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain or re-new from third parties the licenses we need in the future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on reasonable terms.




Significant raw material shortages, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality and sourcing issues or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products.

Our reliance on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers and service providers, and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials, parts, components, systems and services. Some of these suppliers or their sub-suppliers are limited- or sole-source suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers or service providers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, including as a result of catastrophic events, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Quality and sourcing issues experienced by third-party providers can also adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and result in liability and reputational harm.

 

Item 1B