Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K Report. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.




Operating Segments

 

Segment revenue and profit information and additional financial data and commentary on recent financial results for operating segments are provided in the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.




Operating businesses that are reported as segments include Power & Water, Oil & Gas, Energy Management, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation, Appliances & Lighting and GE Capital. Net earnings of GECC and the effect of transactions between segments are eliminated to arrive at total consolidated data. A summary description of each of our operating segments follows. We also continue our longstanding practice of providing supplemental information about the businesses within GE Capital.




Power & Water

 

Power & Water (16.9%, 19.3% and 17.5% of consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively) is a leader in the field of development, implementation and improvement of products and technologies that harness resources such as wind, oil, gas and water to produce electric power.




Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America, Africa and the Middle East.


 



  



(4)







  



 


Power & Water serves power generation, industrial, government and other customers worldwide with products and services related to energy production. We sell gas turbines and generators that are used principally in power plants for generation of electricity and for industrial cogeneration and mechanical drive applications. We are a leading provider of Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) systems. By converting coal and other hydrocarbons into synthetic gas that is used as the primary fuel for gas turbines in combined-cycle systems, fewer air pollutants are produced compared with traditional pulverized coal power plants. We sell steam turbines and generators to the electric utility industry and to private industrial customers for cogeneration applications. We offer wind turbines as part of our renewable energy portfolio. We also sell aircraft engine derivatives for use as industrial power sources. Nuclear reactors, fuel and support services for both new and installed boiling water reactors are offered through joint ventures with Hitachi and Toshiba. We provide our customers with solutions to meet their needs through a broad portfolio of aftermarket services, including equipment upgrades, long-term maintenance service agreements, repairs, equipment installation, remote monitoring, performance testing and diagnostics, asset management and performance optimization tools and Dry Low NOx (DLN) tuning. We continue to invest in advanced technology development that will provide more value to our customers and more efficient solutions that comply with today’s strict environmental regulations.

Power & Water also offers water treatment solutions for industrial and municipal water systems including the supply and related services of specialty chemicals, water purification systems, pumps, valves, filters and fluid handling equipment for improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems, including mobile treatment systems and desalination processes.




On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Dresser, Inc., which broadened the product portfolio with technologies for gas engines.




Power & Water is party to revenue sharing programs that share the financial results of certain aeroderivative lines. These businesses are controlled by Power & Water, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2013, such counterparty interests ranged from 10% to 33% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.




Worldwide competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for power generation is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as we plan for future development.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Oil & Gas

 

Oil & Gas (11.6%, 10.4% and 9.3% of consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively) helps oil and gas companies make more efficient and sustainable use of the world's energy resources.




Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, Australia, South America and Africa.




Oil & Gas supplies mission critical equipment for the global oil and gas industry, used in applications spanning the entire value chain from drilling through production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and pipeline compression, pipeline inspection, and downstream processing in refineries and petrochemical plants. The business designs and manufactures surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders, high pressure reactors, industrial power generation and a broad portfolio of auxiliary equipment.




  



(5)







  






To ensure that the installed base is maintained appropriately, our service business has over 40 service centers and workshops in the world's main oil and gas extraction and production regions. The business also provides upgrades to customers’ machines, using the latest available technology, to extend production capability and environmental performance. We also provide pipeline integrity solutions, sensor-based measurement, inspection, asset condition monitoring, controls, and radiation measurement solutions. Oil & Gas also offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current.

 

On July 1, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Lufkin Industries, Inc., a leading provider of artificial lift technologies for the oil and gas industry and a manufacturer of industrial gears, for $3.3 billion.




On February 4, 2011 and April 26, 2011, we completed the acquisitions of Wellstream PLC and the Well Support division of John Wood Group PLC, respectively. Wellstream PLC expands the Oil & Gas portfolio with flexible subsea risers and flow lines. The Well Support division of John Wood Group PLC adds equipment, including electrical submersible pumps, that helps extract more oil and gas from mature fields. On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Dresser, Inc., which broadens the Oil & Gas product portfolio in control and relief valves, measurement, regulation and control solutions for gas and fuel distributions.




Demand for oil and gas equipment and services is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as we plan for future development.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Energy Management

 

Energy Management (5.2%, 5.1% and 4.4% of consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively) designs, manufactures and services leading technology solutions for the delivery, management, conversion and optimization of electrical power for customers across multiple energy-intensive industries.




Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East.




Energy Management provides integrated electrical products and systems used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. We also provide customer-focused solutions centered on the delivery and control of electric power, and a full portfolio of field services including engineering, inspection, mechanical and emergency services. Energy Management also provides advanced products and services that modernize the grid, from the power plant to the power consumer, such as protection and control, industrial strength communications, smart meters, monitoring & diagnostics, visualization software and advanced analytics. We manufacture advanced motor, drives and control technologies to improve the operational efficiency of energy intensive industries such as metals, mining, marine, oil and gas. Energy Management also provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, single board computers, motion control and operator interfaces.




In August, 2013, GE and XD Electric Group announced the formation of a new global partnership combining GE’s grid automation capabilities and global energy presence with XD Electric’s comprehensive portfolio of high-voltage (HV) power equipment. The partnership also expands GE’s industry capabilities as a leading provider of transmission and distribution (T&D) solutions.




  



(6)







  






On March 2, 2011 and September 2, 2011, we completed the acquisitions of Lineage Power Holdings, Inc. (Lineage Power) and Converteam, respectively. The acquisition of Lineage Power, a provider of high-efficiency power conversion infrastructure technology and services for the telecommunications and datacenter industries, continues the expansion of Energy Management’s offerings from the electric grid to datacenters, cell towers, routers, servers and circuit board electronics. Converteam, a provider of electrification and automation equipment and systems, adds significant product and service capabilities in power electronics, industrial automation and process controls.

 

For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Aviation

 

Aviation (15.0%, 13.6% and 12.9% of consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively) is one of the world’s leading providers of jet engines and related services with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.




Aviation produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of range: short/medium, intermediate and long-range, as well as executive and regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in a joint venture with Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd.




We provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under long-term maintenance contracts.




Aviation also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products, mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components for use in both military and commercial aircraft.




Aviation is party to agreements in which the financial results, and in most cases production responsibilities, of certain products are shared. These agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing programs.




The scope of the joint ventures can range from development through the marketing, sales, production, assembly and aftermarket support of particular products.




Revenue sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product programs in the aviation industry. These programs are controlled by Aviation, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2013, such counterparty interests ranged from 1% to 39% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.




On August 1, 2013, we completed the acquisition of the aviation business of Avio S.p.A., a manufacturer of aviation propulsion components and systems for $4.4 billion.




The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards.






  



(7)







  



 

Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in technology, the relatively small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each other.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Healthcare

 

Healthcare (12.5%, 12.5% and 12.3% of consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively) is one of the world’s leading providers of essential healthcare technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Australia.




Healthcare has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, and helping physicians tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast, non-invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the emergency room, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or brain disorders. With diagnostic imaging systems such as Magnetic Resonance (MR), Computed Tomography (CT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanners, X-ray, nuclear imaging, digital mammography, and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare-manufactured technologies include patient and resident monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and purification, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research, including existing and a pipeline of precision molecular diagnostics in development for neurology, cardiology and oncology applications.




Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management, information technologies and customer productivity services.




We compete with a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services providers. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Products and services are sold worldwide primarily to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market.




Throughout the world, we deliver healthymagination solutions that provide greater efficiency to help control costs, better quality to improve patient outcomes, and extended access to healthcare for patients in underserved markets.




Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA), as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Transportation

 

Transportation (4.0%, 3.8% and 3.3% of consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively) is a global technology leader and supplier to the railroad, marine, drilling and mining industries. We serve customers in more than 100 countries in North America, Europe, Asia, South America, Africa and Australia.






  



(8)







  



 

Transportation manufactures high-horsepower, diesel-electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series™, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Tier III requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Also, on November 30, 2012, we completed the acquisition of Industrea Limited, a provider of mining products and services with a focus in underground mining.




Transportation provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information-based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan.




For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.

 

Appliances & Lighting

 

Appliances & Lighting (formerly Home & Business Solutions) (5.7%, 5.4% and 5.2% of consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics − competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Appliance & Lighting products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting products are directed towards commercial and industrial applications. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses.




We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Our brands include GE Monogram®, GE Café™, GE Profile™, GE®, GE Artistry™, and Hotpoint®. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in-home repair and aftermarket parts.




We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity discharge, light-emitting diode, automotive and miniature products.




We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.




GE Capital

 

GE Capital (30.2%, 30.9% and 33.0% of consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively) businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GE’s industry-specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure and healthcare to capitalize on market-specific opportunities.




During 2013, GE Capital provided approximately $115 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended approximately $105 billion of credit to approximately 61 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 31,200 new commercial customers and 43,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2013 and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 237,000 commercial customers and 212,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S.






  



(9)







  



 

GECC is a regulated savings and loan holding company under U.S. law and became subject to Federal Reserve Board (FRB) supervision on July 21, 2011, the one-year anniversary of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (DFA). In addition, on July 8, 2013, the U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) designated GECC as a nonbank systemically important financial institution (nonbank SIFI) under the DFA. Many of the rulemakings for supervision of nonbank SIFIs are not final and therefore the exact impact and implementation date remain uncertain. GECC continues to plan for the enhanced prudential standards that will apply to nonbank SIFIs. These DFA rulemakings will require, among other items, enhanced capital and liquidity levels, compliance with the comprehensive capital analysis and review regulations (CCAR), compliance with counterparty credit exposure limits, and the development of a resolution plan for submission to regulators.




We have communicated our goal of reducing GE Capital’s ending net investment (ENI), most recently targeting ENI of $300 billion to $350 billion. ENI is a metric used by us to measure the total capital we have invested in our financial services business. GE Capital’s ENI (excluding cash and equivalents) was $380 billion at December 31, 2013. To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have deep domain experience, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses that are deemed to be non-strategic or that are underperforming. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward.




While we are exiting non-core businesses, we are investing in our core businesses in markets where we believe that GECC has deep domain experience and is competitively advantaged. Accordingly, in the short-term, as we reduce our ENI through exiting non-core businesses, the overall level of our future net earnings may be reduced. However, over the long-term, we believe that this strategy will improve our long-term performance through higher returns as we will have a larger concentration of assets in our core businesses, as opposed to the underperforming or non-strategic assets we will be exiting; reduce liquidity risk as we pay down outstanding debt and diversify our sources of funding (with less reliance on the global commercial paper markets and an increase in alternative sources of funding such as deposits); and reduce capital requirements while strengthening capital ratios. Additional information about our liquidity and how we manage this risk can be found in the Financial Resources and Liquidity section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines.




Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia.




Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL)

 

CLL has particular mid-market expertise, and primarily offers secured commercial loans, equipment financing and other financial services to companies across a wide range of industries including construction, retail, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, technology and healthcare. Equipment financing activities include industrial, medical, fleet vehicles, corporate aircraft, construction, office imaging and many other equipment types.




In the first quarter of 2013, we announced the planned disposition of our CLL trailer services business in Europe (CLL Trailer Services) and classified the business as discontinued operations. We completed the sale in the fourth quarter of 2013.




In 2011, we completed the sale of our CLL marine container leasing business, which consists of our controlling interests in the GE SeaCo joint venture along with other owned marine container assets, and our CLL trailer fleet services business in Mexico.






  



(10)







  



 

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. In recent years, there has been a disruption in the capital markets and in access to and availability of capital as well as the exit of some competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high-quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, strong transaction expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity.




Consumer

 

Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers’ needs. These products include, on a global basis, private-label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending.




In the fourth quarter of 2013, we completed a sale of 68.5% of our Swiss consumer finance bank, Cembra Money Bank AG (Cembra), through an IPO; we committed to sell our Consumer banking business in Russia (Consumer Russia) and classified the business as discontinued operations; and we sold our remaining equity interest in the Bank of Ayudhya (Bay Bank).




In November 2013, we announced that we intend to pursue an IPO of our North American Retail Finance business (Retail Finance) as a first step in a staged exit from that business. We plan to file a registration statement with the SEC in the first quarter of 2014 and complete the IPO later in 2014.




We plan to issue up to 20% of the equity of Retail Finance in the IPO, in exchange for cash that will be used to increase the capital of the new company. We currently intend to complete our exit from Retail Finance in 2015 through a split-off transaction, by making a tax-free distribution of our remaining interest in Retail Finance to electing GE stockholders in exchange for shares of GE’s common stock. We may also decide to exit by selling or otherwise distributing or disposing of all or a portion of our remaining interest in the Retail Finance shares.




In the first quarter of 2013, we acquired the deposit business of MetLife Bank, N.A., which is an online banking platform with approximately $6.4 billion in U.S. retail deposits that will allow us to better serve our customers.




In 2011, we sold our Consumer Singapore business and our Consumer home lending operations in Australia and New Zealand (Australian Home Lending) and classified them as discontinued operations. Also in 2011, we sold a substantial portion of our Garanti Bank equity investment. During 2012, we sold our remaining equity interest in Garanti Bank, which was classified as an available-for-sale security.




Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumer’s capacity to repay debt.






  



(11)







  



 

Real Estate

 

Real Estate offers a range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re-capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, warehouses and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating-rate, and are secured by existing income-producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax-exempt bonds.




We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write-offs.




During 2013, in conjunction with our initiative to increase our overall real estate lending portfolio and reduce our exposure to real estate equity investments, we acquired certain loan portfolios and sold real estate equity investments when economically advantageous for us to do, including the sale of real estate comprising certain floors located at 30 Rockefeller Center, New York.




In 2012, we completed the sale of a portion of our Business Properties portfolio (Business Property), including certain commercial loans, the origination and servicing platforms and the servicing rights on loans previously securitized by GECC. The portion that we retained comprises our owner-occupied/credit tenant portfolio.




Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.




Energy Financial Services

 

Energy Financial Services invests in long-lived, capital-intensive energy projects and companies by providing structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad-based commercial finance.




We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.




GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS)

 

GECAS, our commercial aircraft financing and leasing business, offers a wide range of aircraft types and financing options, including operating leases and secured debt financing, and also provides productivity solutions including spare engine leasing, airport and airline consulting services, and spare parts financing and management.




We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing.




GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations

 

GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of run-off sponsored special purpose entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capital’s five operating businesses; results of our run-off insurance operations remaining in continuing operations attributable to GECC; unallocated corporate costs; and certain non-allocated amounts determined by the GECC Chairman.






  



(12)







  



 

GE Corporate Items and Eliminations

 

GE Corporate Items and Eliminations includes the results of disposed businesses in which we retain an unconsolidated interest (including NBC Universal LLC until we sold our equity interest in the first quarter of 2013), principal retirement plan costs and unallocated corporate costs, which includes research and development spending (including our Global Research Centers) and costs related to our Global Growth & Operations organization. Corporate Items and Eliminations also includes certain amounts not allocated to GE industrial operating segments because they are excluded from measurement of their operating performance for external purposes. In this regard, the Chief Executive Officer may exclude matters such as charges for restructuring; rationalization and other similar expenses; acquisition costs and other related charges; technology and product development costs; certain gains and losses from acquisitions or dispositions; and litigation settlements or other charges, responsibility for which preceded the current management team.




Discontinued Operations

 

Discontinued operations primarily comprises GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing business (Consumer RV Marine), Consumer Mexico, Consumer Singapore, Australian Home Lending, our Consumer mortgage lending business in Ireland (Consumer Ireland), CLL Trailer Services and Consumer Russia.




For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.




Geographic Data

 

Geographic data is provided in the Geographic Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.




Orders and Backlog

 

Orders and backlog information is provided in the Segment Operations and Other Information sections in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Research and Development

 

Research and development expenditures information is provided in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and the Other Information section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Environmental Matters

 

Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Additional information is provided in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.




Employees and Employee Relations

 

At year-end 2013, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 307,000 persons, of whom approximately 135,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. “Selected Financial Data” of this Form 10-K Report.






  



(13)







  



 

Approximately 16,900 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 108 different local unions. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC. During 2011, we negotiated four-year agreements with most of our U.S. unions. These agreements modestly increase ongoing costs over the term of the contracts on an aggregate basis. However, the agreements also implement new features that focus on cost containment for health and pension plans. Effective January 1, 2012, all production employees participate in a new consumer-directed health plan. In addition, production employees who commence service on or after that date will not be eligible to participate in the GE Pension Plan, but will participate in a defined contribution retirement program.




Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 4,000 employees.




Executive Officers

 

See Part III, Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this Form 10-K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant.




Other

 

Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials.




We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.




Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow.

 




 

% of Consolidated Revenues 

 

 

2013 

 

2012 

 

2011 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies

 

3 


%

 

3 


%

 

3 


%



Aviation segment defense-related sales

 

2 

 
 

3 

 
 

3 

 


  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 









GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company.




The Company’s Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828-0001. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.

 

 



  



(14)







  



 

Item 1A. Risk Factors

 

The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 1. “Business”. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

 

Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our businesses encounter can be found in the business descriptions in Item 1. “Business” and the MD&A section of this Form 10-K Report. Below, we describe certain important strategic, operational, financial, and legal and compliance risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will affect our future results.




Our growth is subject to global economic and political risks.

We operate in virtually every part of the world and serve customers in more than 100 countries. In 2013, approximately 53% of our revenue was attributable to activities outside the United States. Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition and geopolitical risks. They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility and actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. While some of these global economic and political risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful, and our ability to engage in such mitigation may decrease or become even more costly as a result of more volatile market conditions.


 



  



(15)







  



 

We are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and government policies that may change in significant ways.

Our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies. There can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. In particular, U.S. and non-U.S. governments are undertaking a substantial revision of the regulation and supervision of bank and non-bank financial institutions, consumer lending, the over-the-counter derivatives market and tax laws and regulations, which changes may have an effect on GE’s and GE Capital’s structure, operations, liquidity, capital requirements, effective tax rate and performance. We are also subject to a number of trade control laws and regulations that may affect our ability to sell our products in global markets. In addition, we are subject to regulatory risks from laws that reduce the allowable lending rate or limit consumer borrowing, local capital requirements that may increase the risk of not being able to retrieve assets, and changes to tax law that may affect our return on investments. For example, GE’s effective tax rate is reduced because active business income earned and indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S. rate. A significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain active financial services income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits U.S. financial services companies to compete more effectively with non-U.S. financial institutions in global markets. This provision, which had expired at the end of 2011, was reinstated in January 2013 retroactively for two years through the end of 2013. This provision also had been scheduled to expire and had been extended by Congress on six previous occasions, but there can be no assurance that it will continue to be extended. In the event the provision is not extended after 2013, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets. If this provision is not extended, we expect our effective tax rate to increase significantly after 2014. In addition, efforts by public and private sectors to control the growth of healthcare costs may lead to lower reimbursements and increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. Continued government scrutiny, including reviews of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) medical device pre-market authorization and post-market surveillance processes, may impact the requirements for marketing our products and slow our ability to introduce new products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, we have been, and expect to continue, participating in U.S. and international governmental programs, which require us to comply with strict governmental regulations. Inability to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our status in these projects and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.




Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we are subject to prudential oversight by the Federal Reserve, including as a result of GECC’s designation as a nonbank systemically important financial institution, which subjects us to increased and evolving regulatory requirements.

GECC is a regulated savings and loan holding company and in 2011 became subject to Federal Reserve Board (FRB) supervision under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (DFA). In 2013, the U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) designated GECC as a nonbank systemically important financial institution (nonbank SIFI) under the DFA. As a result of this change in supervision and designation, stricter prudential regulatory standards and supervision apply to GECC. Many of the rulemakings for supervision of nonbank SIFIs are not final and therefore the exact impact and implementation date remain uncertain. These DFA rulemakings will require, among other items, enhanced capital and liquidity levels, compliance with the comprehensive capital analysis and review regulations (CCAR), compliance with counterparty credit exposure limits, and the development of a resolution plan for submission to regulators. The FRB recently finalized regulations to revise and replace its current rules on capital adequacy and to extend capital regulations to savings and loan holding companies like GECC. GECC will ultimately also become subject to the Basel III advanced capital rules that will be applicable to institutions with $250 billion or more in assets. The FRB has also indicated in a proposed rulemaking that it will require nonbank SIFIs to submit annual capital plans for review, including institutions’ plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments. While GECC is not yet subject to this regulation, GECC’s capital allocation planning remains subject to FRB review as a savings and loan holding company. For additional information, see Liquidity and Borrowings in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.






  



(16)







  



 

We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks.

We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in virtually every part of the world. We, our representatives, and the industries in which we operate are subject to continuing scrutiny by regulators and other governmental authorities, which may, in certain circumstances, lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Additionally, we and our subsidiaries are involved in a number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. These include the dredging of polychlorinated biphenyls from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State, as described in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report. We are also subject to certain other legal proceedings described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K Report. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time.

 

The success of our business depends on achieving our strategic objectives, including through acquisitions, joint ventures, dispositions and restructurings.

With respect to acquisitions, joint ventures and restructuring actions, we may not achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration and collaboration challenges, such as personnel and technology. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated cost savings from restructuring actions, which could result in lower margin rates. We also participate in a number of joint ventures with other companies or government enterprises in various markets around the world, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. We also continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. For example, delays in obtaining tax rulings and regulatory approvals or clearances, and disruptions or volatility in the capital markets may impact our ability to complete the staged exit from our North American Retail Finance business as planned. Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. After reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside our control could affect our future financial results.

 



  



(17)







  



 

Sustained increases in pension and healthcare benefits costs may reduce our profitability.

Our results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions we use to estimate pension expense for 2014 are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant reduction or increase to equity. At the end of 2013, the GE Pension Plan was underfunded, on a U.S. GAAP basis, by $4.7 billion, and the GE Supplementary Pension Plan, an unfunded plan, had a projected benefit obligation of $5.2 billion. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Pension Assumptions in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report. Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Failure to achieve expected returns on plan assets driven by various factors, which could include a continued environment of low interest rates or sustained market volatility, could also result in an increase to the amount of cash we would be required to contribute to pension plans. In addition, upward pressure on the cost of providing healthcare benefits to current employees and retirees may increase future funding obligations. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce our profitability.




Conditions in the financial and credit markets may affect the availability and cost of funding.

As disclosed in more detail in the Liquidity and Borrowings section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report, a large portion of our borrowings is in the form of commercial paper and long-term debt. We continue to rely on the availability of the unsecured debt markets to access funding for term and commercial paper maturities for 2014 and beyond and to fund our operations without incurring additional U.S. tax. In addition, we rely on the availability of the commercial paper markets to refinance maturing commercial paper debt throughout the year. In order to further diversify our funding sources, GE Capital continues to expand its reliance on alternative sources of funding, including bank deposits, securitizations and other asset-based funding. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in increasing the diversification of our funding sources or that the short and long-term credit markets will be available or, if available, that the cost of funding will not substantially increase and affect our overall profitability. Factors that may affect the availability of funding or cause an increase in our funding costs include: a decreased reliance on short-term funding, such as commercial paper, in favor of longer-term funding arrangements; decreased capacity and increased competition among debt issuers; increased competition for deposits in our affiliate banks’ markets; and potential market disruptions or other impacts arising in the United States or Europe from developments in sovereign debt situations. If GE Capital’s cost of funding were to increase, it may adversely affect its competitive position and result in lower net interest margins, earnings and cash flows as well as lower returns on its shareowner’s equity and invested capital.






  



(18)







  



 

A deterioration of conditions in the global economy, the major industries we serve or the financial markets, or the soundness of financial institutions and governments we deal with, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.

The business and operating results of our industrial businesses have been, and will continue to be, affected by worldwide economic conditions, including conditions in the air and rail transportation, energy generation, healthcare, home building and other major industries we serve. Existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services, including large infrastructure projects, and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion as a result of business deterioration, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing due to slower global economic growth and other challenges affecting the global economy. In particular, the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and international economies. An extended period of slow growth in the U.S. or internationally that results in the loss of business and leisure traffic could have a material adverse effect on our airline customers and the viability of their business. Service contract cancellations or customer dynamics such as early aircraft retirements or reduced energy demand in our Power & Water business could affect our ability to fully recover our contract costs and estimated earnings. Further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. If slower growth in the global economy continues for a significant period or there is significant deterioration in the global economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.




If conditions in the financial markets deteriorate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover fully the value of certain assets, including real estate, goodwill, intangibles and tax assets. Deterioration in the economy and in default and recovery rates could require us to increase allowances for loan losses, impairments or write-offs, which, depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.




In addition, GE Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, including sovereign governments, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, GE Capital’s credit risk may be increased when the value of collateral held cannot be realized through sale or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has exposure to these financial institutions in the form of cash on deposit and unsecured debt instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating to credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties (as described in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report), which are designed to limit credit and liquidity risk. There can be no assurance, however, that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of financial assets would not materially and adversely affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of operations.




Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.

The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. As of December 31, 2013, GE and GECC’s long-term unsecured debt credit rating from Standard and Poor’s Ratings Service (S&P) was AA+ (the second highest of 22 rating categories) with a stable outlook. The long-term unsecured debt credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) for GE was Aa3 (the fourth highest of 21 rating categories) and for GECC was A1 (the fifth highest of 21 credit ratings), both with stable outlooks. As of December 31, 2013, GE and GECC’s short-term credit rating from S&P was A-1+ (the highest rating category of six categories) and from Moody’s was P-1 (the highest rating category of four categories). There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. Various debt and derivative instruments, guarantees and covenants would require posting additional capital or collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade, which, depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital position.






  



(19)







  



 

Increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data. 

Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks pose a risk to the security of our and our customers’, suppliers’ and third-party service providers’ products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. We also may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action.




We may face operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations, and we are dependent on maintenance of existing product lines, market acceptance of new product and service introductions and product and service innovations for continued revenue and earnings growth.

We produce highly sophisticated products and provide specialized services for both our and third-party products that incorporate or use leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. While we have built extensive operational processes to ensure that the design, manufacture and servicing of such products meet the most rigorous quality standards, there can be no assurance that we or our customers or other third parties will not experience operational process failures or other problems, including through intentional acts, that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Despite the existence of crisis management or business continuity plans, operational failures or quality issues, including as a result of organizational changes, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the markets in which we operate are subject to technological change and require skilled talent. Our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products and services, to modify existing products and services, to customize products and services, to respond to technological change and to execute our product and service development in line with our projected cost estimates.




Our intellectual property portfolio may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to ours.

Our patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently developing or selling products and services similar to or duplicative of ours, and there can be no assurance that the resources invested by us to protect our intellectual property will be sufficient or that our intellectual property portfolio will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology. We could also face competition in some countries where we have not invested in an intellectual property portfolio. We also face attempts to gain unauthorized access to our IT systems or products for the purpose of improperly acquiring our trade secrets or confidential business information. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position and the value of our investment in research and development. We may be unable to secure or retain ownership or rights to use data in certain software analytics or services offerings. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. If GE is found to infringe any third-party rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services. Also, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain or renew from third parties the licenses we need in the future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on reasonable terms.






  



(20)







  



 

Significant raw material shortages, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality and sourcing issues or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products.

Our reliance on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers and service providers, and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials, parts, components, systems and services. Some of these suppliers or their sub-suppliers are limited- or sole-source suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers or service providers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, including as a result of catastrophic events, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Quality and sourcing issues experienced by third-party providers can also adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and result in liability and reputational harm.

 

Item 1B