Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors


 



    Risks
    Related to Real Estate Investments


 



    We
    invest primarily in regional shopping centers and other retail
    properties, which are subject to a number of significant risks
    which are beyond our control


 


    Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk
    that may affect the ability of our retail properties to generate
    sufficient revenues. A number of factors may decrease the income
    generated by a retail property, including:


 




    
    



        • 

        The regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted
    by plant closings, industry slowdowns, adverse weather
    conditions, natural disasters and other factors



 


        • 

        Local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a
    reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the
    availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective
    tenants



 


        • 

        Perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience
    and attractiveness of the retail property



 


        • 

        The convenience and quality of competing retail properties and
    other retailing options such as the Internet






    
    6



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        • 

        Changes in laws and regulations applicable to real property,
    including tax and zoning laws



 


        • 

        Changes in interest rate levels and the availability and cost of
    financing





 


    If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our retail
    properties, including those held by joint ventures, we will be
    unable to meet operating and other expenses, including debt
    service, lease payments, capital expenditures and tenant
    improvements, and to make distributions from our joint ventures
    and then, in turn, to our stockholders.


 



    We
    depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable
    terms and collecting rent from these tenants, who may not be
    able to pay


 


    Our results of operations will depend on our ability to continue
    to lease space in our properties on economically favorable
    terms. If the sales of stores operating in our centers decline
    sufficiently, tenants might be unable to pay their existing
    minimum rents or expense recovery charges, since these rents and
    charges would represent a higher percentage of their sales. If
    our tenants’ sales decline, new tenants would be less
    likely to be willing to pay minimum rents as high as they would
    otherwise pay. In addition, as substantially all of our income
    is derived from rentals of real property, our income and cash
    available for distribution to our stockholders would be
    adversely affected if a significant number of tenants were
    unable to meet their obligations to us. During times of economic
    recession, these risks will increase.


 



    Bankruptcy
    or store closures of tenants may decrease our revenues and
    available cash


 


    Our leases generally do not contain provisions designed to
    ensure the creditworthiness of the tenant, and a number of
    companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants,
    have declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed certain of their
    stores in recent years. The bankruptcy or closure of a major
    tenant, particularly an Anchor tenant, may have a material
    adverse effect on the retail properties affected and the income
    produced by these properties and may make it substantially more
    difficult to lease the remainder of the affected retail
    properties. As a result, the bankruptcy or closure of a major
    tenant and potential additional closures as a result of
    co-tenancy requirements could result in a lower level of
    revenues and cash available for distribution to our stockholders.


 



    We may
    be negatively impacted by department store
    consolidations


 


    Department store consolidations, such as Federated’s
    acquisition of May Department Stores and the break up of Saks
    Holdings, Inc., are resulting in the closure of existing
    department stores and we may be unable to re-lease this area or
    to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. Other
    tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing
    leases, including those pertaining to rent payment, in the event
    of such closures. Additionally, department store closures could
    result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to
    decreased sales at other stores. We may pay more to acquire an
    Anchor store location in order to avoid these potential
    decreases as well as to avoid the transfer of certain approval
    rights typically associated with such locations. Consolidations
    may also negatively affect current and future development and
    redevelopment projects.


 



    It may
    be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, and transfer
    restrictions apply to some of our properties


 


    Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and this
    characteristic tends to limit our ability to vary our portfolio
    promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.
    In addition, significant expenditures associated with each
    equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes
    and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when
    circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment.
    If income from a property declines while the related expenses do
    not decline, our income and cash available for distribution to
    our stockholders would be adversely affected. A significant
    portion of our properties are mortgaged to secure payment of
    indebtedness, and if we were unable to meet our mortgage
    payments, we could lose money as a result of foreclosure on the
    properties by the various mortgagees. In addition, if it becomes
    necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of the
    mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release
    of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the
    associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or
    inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of
    cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In certain
    transactions, if persons selling properties to us wish to defer
    the payment of taxes on the sales proceeds, we



    
    7



Table of Contents




    are likely to pay them in units of limited partnership interest
    in the Operating Partnership. In transactions of this kind, we
    may also agree, subject to certain exceptions, not to sell the
    acquired properties for significant periods of time.


 



    Risks
    Related to our Business


 



    We
    develop and expand properties, and this activity is subject to
    various risks


 


    We intend to continue to pursue development and expansion
    activities as opportunities arise. In connection with any
    development or expansion, we will be subject to various risks,
    including the following:


 




    
    



        • 

        We may abandon development or expansion activities already under
    way, which may result in additional cost recognition



 


        • 

        Construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates or
    available financing, possibly making the project unfeasible or
    unprofitable



 


        • 

        We may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance
    construction loans, which generally have full recourse to us



 


        • 

        We may not be able to obtain zoning, occupancy or other required
    governmental permits and authorizations



 


        • 

        Occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may not meet
    projections and, therefore, the project may not be profitable



 


        • 

        We may not be able to obtain Anchor, mortgage lender and
    property partner approvals, if applicable, for expansion or
    redevelopment activities





 


    If a development project is unsuccessful, our loss could exceed
    our investment in the project.


 



    We may
    incur costs to comply with environmental laws


 


    Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and
    regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real
    estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or
    toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable
    to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage
    or personal injuries and for investigation and
    clean-up
    costs incurred by the parties in connection with the
    contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard
    to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible
    for, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The
    presence of contamination or the failure to remediate
    contamination may adversely affect the owner’s ability to
    sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as
    collateral. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and
    regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing
    materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or
    remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for some of our
    redevelopments and also govern emissions of and exposure to
    asbestos fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate
    the operation and removal of underground storage tanks. In
    connection with the ownership, operation and management of our
    properties, we could be held liable for the costs of remedial
    action with respect to these regulated substances or tanks or
    related claims.


 


    Our properties have been subjected to varying degrees of
    environmental assessment at various times. However, the
    identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the
    extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup
    requirements could result in significant costs to us.


 



    We are
    in a competitive business


 


    There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our
    properties in attracting retailers to lease space. In addition,
    retailers at our properties face continued competition from
    other regional shopping centers, including outlet malls and
    other discount shopping centers, discount shopping clubs,
    catalog companies, internet sales and telemarketing. Competition
    of this type could adversely affect our revenues and cash
    available for distribution to our stockholders.


 


    We compete with other major real estate investors with
    significant capital for attractive investment opportunities.
    These competitors include other REITs, investment banking firms
    and private institutional investors. This



    
    8



Table of Contents




    competition has increased prices for commercial properties and
    may impair our ability to make suitable property acquisitions on
    favorable terms in the future.


 



    We may
    not be able to obtain capital to make investments


 


    We depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of
    our business. This is because one of the requirements of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as
    the “Code,” for a REIT generally is that it distribute
    or pay tax on 100% of its capital gains and distribute at least
    90% of its ordinary taxable income to its stockholders. Our
    access to debt or equity financing depends on banks’
    willingness to lend to us and on conditions in the capital
    markets in general. We and other companies in the real estate
    industry have experienced less favorable terms for bank loans
    and capital markets financing from time to time. Although we
    believe, based on current market conditions, that we will be
    able to finance investments we wish to make in the foreseeable
    future, financing might not be available on acceptable terms or
    may be affected by the amount of debt we have outstanding as a
    result of the TRC Merger.


 



    Some
    of our properties are subject to potential natural or other
    disasters


 


    A number of our properties are located in areas which are
    subject to natural disasters. For example, two of our
    properties, located in the New Orleans area, suffered major
    damage in 2005. It is uncertain as to whether the New Orleans
    area will recover to its prior economic strength.


 


    We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake,
    terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of
    our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured
    limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There
    are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other
    contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an
    uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we
    could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a
    property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the
    property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain
    obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations
    related to the property.


 


    If the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act is not extended
    beyond 2007, we may incur higher insurance costs and greater
    difficulty in obtaining insurance which covers terrorist-related
    damages. Our tenants may also experience similar difficulties.


 



    Inflation
    may adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations


 


    Should inflation increase in the future, we may experience any
    or all of the following:


 




    
    



        • 

        Decreasing tenant sales as a result of decreased consumer
    spending which could result in lower overage rents



 


        • 

        Difficulty in replacing or renewing expiring leases with new
    leases at higher base
    and/or
    overage rents



 


        • 

        An inability to receive reimbursement from our tenants for their
    share of certain operating expenses, including common area
    maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance





 


    Inflation also poses a potential threat to us due to the
    probability of future increases in interest rates. Such
    increases would adversely impact us due to our outstanding
    variable-rate debt as well as result in higher interest rates on
    new fixed-rate debt.


 



    We
    have certain ownership interests outside the United States which
    may increase in relative significance over time


 


    We hold interests in joint venture properties in Brazil, Turkey
    and Costa Rica. We expect to pursue additional expansion
    opportunities outside the United States. International
    development and ownership activities carry risks that are
    different from those we face with our domestic properties and
    operations. These risks include:


 




    
    



        • 

        Difficulties in managing international operations



 


        • 

        Changes in foreign political environments, regionally,
    nationally, and locally






    
    9



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        • 

        Challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws
    including corporate governance, operations, taxes and litigation



 


        • 

        Differing lending practices



 


        • 

        Differences in cultures



 


        • 

        Adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign
    currencies



 


        • 

        Changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States
    that affect foreign operations



 


        • 

        Obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash





 


    Although our international activities currently are a relatively
    small portion of our business (international properties
    represented less than 1% of the NOI of all of our properties in
    2006), to the extent that we expand our international
    activities, these risks could increase in significance and
    adversely affect our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    Risks
    Related to our Organizational and Financial Structure that Give
    Rise to Operational and Financial Risks


 



    Our
    substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial
    health and operating flexibility


 


    We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of
    December 31, 2006, we had an aggregate consolidated
    indebtedness outstanding of approximately $20.5 billion
    (Note 6). Approximately $5.5 billion of our aggregate
    indebtedness was unsecured, recourse indebtedness of the
    Operating Partnership and consolidated subsidiaries, while
    approximately $15.0 billion was secured by our properties.
    A majority of the secured indebtedness was non-recourse to us.
    This indebtedness does not include our proportionate share of
    indebtedness incurred by our Unconsolidated Properties. As a
    result of this substantial indebtedness, we are required to use
    a material portion of our cash flow to service principal and
    interest on our debt, which will limit the cash flow available
    for other desirable business opportunities.


 


    Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences
    to us and the value of our common stock, including:


 




    
    



        • 

        Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working
    capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
    execution of our growth strategy or other purposes



 


        • 

        Limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas
    of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion
    of these funds to service the debt



 


        • 

        Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions, including increases in interest rates,
    particularly given our substantial indebtedness which bears
    interest at variable rates



 


        • 

        Limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities,
    including the acquisition of additional properties, and to react
    to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government
    regulation



 


        • 

        Limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance
    indebtedness



 


        • 

        Limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging
    transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom
    we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of
    those transactions





 


    The terms of the 2006 Credit Facility, and certain other debt,
    require us to satisfy certain customary affirmative and negative
    covenants and to meet financial ratios and tests including
    ratios and tests based on leverage, interest coverage and net
    worth. The covenants under our debt affect, among other things,
    our ability to:


 




    
    



        • 

        Incur indebtedness



 


        • 

        Create liens on assets



 


        • 

        Sell assets



 


        • 

        Make capital expenditures






    
    10



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        • 
    
    Engage in mergers and acquisitions





 


    Given the restrictions in our debt covenants on these and other
    activities, we may be restricted in our ability to pursue other
    acquisitions, may be significantly limited in our operating and
    financial flexibility and may be limited in our ability to
    respond to changes in our business or competitive activities.


 


    A failure to comply with these covenants, including a failure to
    meet the financial tests or ratios, would likely result in an
    event of default under our debt and would allow the lenders to
    accelerate such debt under such facility. If our debt is
    accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt
    in full.


 



    We
    share control of some of our properties with other investors and
    may have conflicts of interest with those
    investors


 


    While we generally make all operating decisions for the
    Unconsolidated Properties, we are required to make other
    decisions with the other investors who have interests in the
    relevant property or properties. For example, the approval of
    certain of the other investors is required with respect to
    operating budgets and refinancing, encumbering, expanding or
    selling any of these properties. We might not have the same
    interests as the other investors in relation to these
    transactions. Accordingly, we might not be able to favorably
    resolve any of these issues, or we might have to provide
    financial or other inducement to the other investors to obtain a
    favorable resolution.


 


    In addition, various restrictive provisions and rights apply to
    sales or transfers of interests in our jointly owned properties.
    These may work to our disadvantage because, among other things,
    we might be required to make decisions about buying or selling
    interests in a property or properties at a time that is
    disadvantageous to us or we might be required to purchase the
    interests of our partners in our jointly owned properties.


 



    Bankruptcy
    of joint venture partners could impose delays and costs on us
    with respect to the jointly owned retail
    properties


 


    The bankruptcy of one of the other investors in any of our
    jointly owned shopping centers could materially and adversely
    affect the relevant property or properties. Under the bankruptcy
    laws, we would be precluded by the automatic stay from taking
    some actions affecting the estate of the other investor without
    prior approval of the bankruptcy court, which would, in most
    cases, entail prior notice to other parties and a hearing in the
    bankruptcy court. At a minimum, the requirement to obtain court
    approval may delay the actions we would or might want to take.
    If the relevant joint venture through which we have invested in
    a property has incurred recourse obligations, the discharge in
    bankruptcy of one of the other investors might result in our
    ultimate liability for a greater portion of those obligations
    than we would otherwise bear.


 



    Payments
    by our direct and indirect subsidiaries of dividends and
    distributions to us may be adversely affected by prior payments
    to these subsidiaries’ creditors and preferred security
    holders


 


    Substantially all of our assets are owned through our general
    partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, including
    TRCLP. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of its
    properties and assets through subsidiaries, including subsidiary
    partnerships, limited liability companies and corporations that
    have elected to be taxed as REITs. The Operating Partnership
    therefore derives substantially all of its cash flow from cash
    distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and we, in turn, derive
    substantially all of our cash flow from cash distributions to us
    by the Operating Partnership. The creditors and preferred
    security holders, if any, of each of our direct and indirect
    subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s
    obligations to them, when due and payable, before that
    subsidiary may make distributions to us. Thus, the Operating
    Partnership’s ability to make distributions to its
    partners, including us, depends on its subsidiaries’
    ability first to satisfy obligations to their creditors and
    preferred security holders, if any, and then to make
    distributions to the Operating Partnership. Similarly, our
    ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock depends
    on the Operating Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its
    obligations to its creditors and preferred security holders and
    then to make distributions to us.


 


    In addition, we will have the right to participate in any
    distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect
    subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency
    of the subsidiary only after the claims of the creditors,
    including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if
    any, of the subsidiary are satisfied. Our



    
    11



Table of Contents




    common stockholders, in turn, will have the right to participate
    in any distribution of our assets upon the liquidation,
    reorganization or insolvency of us only after the claims of our
    creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred security
    holders, if any, are satisfied.


 



    We
    might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a
    REIT


 


    Although we believe that we will remain structured and will
    continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal
    income tax purposes, we might not continue to be so qualified.
    Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes involves
    the application of highly technical and complex provisions of
    the Code for which there are only limited judicial or
    administrative interpretations. Therefore, the determination of
    various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
    our control may impact our ability to qualify as a REIT. In
    addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative
    interpretations or court decisions might significantly change
    the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification
    as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of
    qualification as a REIT.


 


    If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our
    qualification as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct
    distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income
    and federal income tax. The corporate level income tax,
    including any applicable alternative minimum tax, would apply to
    our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As a result, the
    amount available for distribution to stockholders would be
    reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer
    be required to make distributions. In addition, unless we were
    entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we
    would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for four
    subsequent taxable years. Notwithstanding that we currently
    intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as
    a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other
    considerations may cause us to determine that it is in our best
    interest and the best interest of our stockholders to revoke the
    REIT election.


 



    An
    ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses and
    applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire
    us


 


    The Ownership Limit.  Generally, for us to
    maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more
    than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock
    may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer
    individuals at any time during the last half of our taxable
    year. The Code defines “individuals” for purposes of
    the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include
    some types of entities. In general, under our current
    certificate of incorporation, no person other than Martin
    Bucksbaum (deceased), Matthew Bucksbaum (the Chairman of our
    board of directors), their families and related trusts and
    entities, including M.B. Capital Partners III, may own more
    than 7.5% of the value of our outstanding capital stock.
    However, our certificate of incorporation also permits our
    company to exempt a person from the 7.5% ownership limit upon
    the satisfaction of certain conditions which are described in
    our certificate of incorporation.


 


    Selected Provisions of our Charter
    Documents.  Our board of directors is divided into
    three classes of directors. Directors of each class are chosen
    for three-year staggered terms. Staggered terms of directors may
    reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change
    control of our company, even though a tender offer or change in
    control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our
    charter authorizes the board of directors:


 




    
    



        • 

        To cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares
    of common stock or preferred stock



 


        • 

        To classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued
    preferred stock



 


        • 

        To set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified
    or reclassified stock that we issue





 


    Stockholder Rights Plan.  We have a stockholder
    rights plan which will impact a potential acquirer unless the
    acquirer negotiates with our board of directors and the board of
    directors approves the transaction.


 


    Selected Provisions of Delaware Law.  We are a
    Delaware corporation, and Section 203 of the Delaware
    General Corporation Law applies to us. In general,
    Section 203 prevents an “interested stockholder,”
    as defined in the next



    
    12



Table of Contents




    sentence, from engaging in a “business combination,”
    as defined in the statute, with us for three years following the
    date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless one or
    more of the following occurs:


 




    
    



        • 

        Before that person became an interested stockholder, our board
    of directors approved the transaction in which the interested
    stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the
    business combination



 


        • 

        Upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the
    interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the
    interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock
    outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for
    purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not
    the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested
    stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers of
    the company and by employee stock plans that do not provide
    employees with the right to determine confidentially whether
    shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or
    exchange offer



 


        • 

        Following the transaction in which that person became an
    interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by
    our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of
    stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least
    two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the
    interested stockholder





 


    The statute defines “interested stockholder” to mean
    generally any person that is the owner of 15% or more of our
    outstanding voting stock or is an affiliate or associate of us
    and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock
    at any time within the three-year period immediately before the
    date of determination.


 


    Each item discussed above may delay, deter or prevent a change
    in control of our company, even if a proposed transaction is at
    a premium over the then current market price for our common
    stock. Further, these provisions may apply in instances where
    some stockholders consider a transaction beneficial to them. As
    a result, our stock price may be negatively affected by these
    provisions.


 



    We are
    impacted by tax-related obligations to some of our
    partners


 


    We own properties through partnerships which have arrangements
    in place that protect the deferred tax situation of our existing
    third party limited partners. Violation of these arrangements
    could impose costs on us. As a result, we may be restricted with
    respect to decisions such as financing, encumbering, expanding
    or selling these properties.


 


    Several of our joint venture partners are tax-exempt. As such,
    they are taxable to the extent of their share of unrelated
    business taxable income generated from these properties. As the
    managing partner in these joint ventures, we have obligations to
    avoid the creation of unrelated business taxable income at these
    properties. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to
    decisions such as financing and revenue generation with respect
    to these properties.


 



    Risks
    Related to the TRC Merger


 



    We may
    not realize the full anticipated benefits of the TRC
    Merger


 


    Achieving the anticipated benefits of the TRC Merger will depend
    in part upon our ability to integrate the two companies’
    businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may continue
    to face difficulties integrating aspects of the combined
    company’s businesses that we have not historically focused
    on, such as the master planned community business. Any inability
    of management to integrate the operations of TRCLP successfully
    could cause us to not fully achieve the expected benefits of the
    TRC Merger.


 



    Limitations
    on the sale of the TRCLP assets may affect our cash
    flow


 


    We may be restricted in our ability to dispose of certain TRCLP
    assets until the ten-year period after TRC’s election of
    REIT status expires in 2008 due to the potential incurrence of
    substantial tax liabilities on such dispositions due to
    applicable REIT regulations.


 



    We
    have significant obligations under a Contingent Stock Agreement
    we assumed in the TRC Merger


 


    We have assumed the obligations of TRC under a Contingent Stock
    Agreement, which we refer to as the “CSA.” The
    assumption includes the obligation under the CSA to issue shares
    of common stock twice a year to the



    
    13



Table of Contents




    beneficiaries under the CSA and certain indemnification
    obligations. The number of shares is based upon our stock price
    and upon a formula set forth in the CSA. In addition, the CSA
    requires a valuation of certain assets that we own as of
    December 31, 2009, which is expected to result in the
    issuance of a significant number of additional shares to the
    beneficiaries under the CSA. Such issuances would be dilutive to
    our existing stockholders if we are unable to repurchase a
    corresponding number of shares through our publicly announced
    stock repurchase program.


 



    Risks
    Related to our Common Stock


 



    Our
    common stock price may be volatile, and consequently investors
    may not be able to resell their common stock at or above their
    purchase price


 


    The price at which our common stock will trade may be volatile
    and may fluctuate due to factors such as:


 




    
    



        • 

        Our historical and anticipated quarterly and annual operating
    results



 


        • 

        Variations between our actual results and analyst and investor
    expectations or changes in financial estimates and
    recommendations by securities analysts



 


        • 

        The performance and prospects of our industry



 


        • 

        The depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock



 


        • 

        Investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate



 


        • 

        Domestic and international economic conditions



 


        • 

        The extent of institutional investor interest in us



 


        • 

        The reputation of REITs generally and the attractiveness of
    their equity securities in comparison to other equity
    securities, including securities issued by other real estate
    companies, and fixed income securities



 


        • 

        Our financial condition and performance



 


        • 

        General market conditions and trends





 


    Fluctuations may be unrelated to or disproportionate to our
    financial performance. These fluctuations may result in a
    material decline in the trading price of our common stock.


 



    Future
    sales of our common stock may depress our stock
    price


 


    As of December 31, 2006, approximately 58.3 million
    shares of common stock were issuable upon exercise of conversion
    and/or
    redemption rights as to units of limited partnership interest in
    the Operating Partnership. Under our shelf registration
    statement, we may offer from time to time up to approximately
    $1.5 billion worth of common stock, preferred stock,
    depositary shares, debt securities, warrants, stock purchase
    contracts
    and/or
    purchase units. An additional 14.5 million shares of our
    common stock are reserved for issuance to meet our obligations
    under the CSA we assumed in connection with the TRC Merger. In
    addition, we have reserved a number of shares of common stock
    for issuance under our option and other benefit plans for
    employees and directors and in connection with certain other
    obligations, and these shares will be available for sale from
    time to time. Although we have publicly announced a stock
    repurchase program which may offset the dilution resulting from
    issuances pursuant to the CSA and one of our employee option
    plans, there is no certainty that we will be successful in
    acquiring a sufficient number of shares at an acceptable price
    to accomplish this goal. No prediction can be made as to the
    effect, if any, that these and other future sales of our common
    stock, or the availability of common stock for future sales,
    will have on the market price of the stock. Sales in the public
    market of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the
    perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect
    prevailing market prices for our common stock.


 



    Increases
    in market interest rates may hurt the market price of our common
    stock


 


    We believe that investors consider the distribution rate on REIT
    stocks, expressed as a percentage of the price of the stocks,
    relative to market interest rates as an important factor in
    deciding whether to buy or sell the stocks. If market interest
    rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT stocks may expect a
    higher distribution rate. Higher interest



    
    14



Table of Contents




    rates would not, however, result in more funds being available
    for us to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our
    borrowing costs and might decrease our funds available for
    distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the
    market price of our common stock to decline.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information


 


    We may make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and
    in other reports which we file with the SEC. In addition, our
    senior management might make forward-looking statements orally
    to analysts, investors, the media and others.


 


    Forward-looking statements include:


 




    
    



        • 

        Projections of our revenues, income, earnings per share, Funds
    From Operations, capital expenditures, dividends, capital
    structure or other financial items



 


        • 

        Descriptions of plans or objectives of our management for future
    operations, including pending acquisitions



 


        • 

        Forecasts of our future economic performance



 


        • 

        Descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the
    foregoing





 


    In this Annual Report, for example, we make forward-looking
    statements discussing our expectations about:


 




    
    



        • 

        Future repayment of debt and interest rates



 


        • 

        Distributions pursuant to the Contingent Stock Agreement



 


        • 

        Expected sales and development and acquisition expenditures in
    our Master Planned Communities segment



 


        • 

        Expected restructurings of certain of our operating properties
    that are currently owned by TRS entities



 


        • 

        Future cash needed to meet federal income tax requirements





 


    Forward-looking statements discuss matters that are not
    historical facts. Because they discuss future events or
    conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such
    as “anticipate,” “believe,”
    “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,”
    “plan,” “project,” “target,”
    “can,” “could,” “may,”
    “should,” “will,” “would” or
    similar expressions. Forward-looking statements should not be
    unduly relied upon. They give our expectations about the future
    and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as
    of the date they are made and we might not update them to
    reflect changes that occur after the date they are made.


 


    There are several factors, many beyond our control, which could
    cause results to differ significantly from our expectations.
    Factors such as credit, market, operational, liquidity, interest
    rate and other risks are described elsewhere in this Annual
    Report. Any factor described in this Annual Report could by
    itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely
    affect our business, results of operations or financial
    condition. There are also other factors that we have not
    described in this Annual Report that could cause results to
    differ from our expectations.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B