Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Bankruptcy
    Risks


 



    We may
    file for bankruptcy protection, or an involuntary petition for
    bankruptcy may be filed against us


 


    As described below under “Liquidity Risks,” we have a
    substantial amount of debt which we may not be able to refinance
    or extend. If we are unable to refinance or extend our debt, or
    if such debt is accelerated due to our default, our assets may
    not be sufficient to repay such debt in full, and our available
    cash flow may not be adequate to maintain our current
    operations. Under such circumstances, or if we believe such
    circumstances are likely to occur, we may consider or pursue
    various forms of negotiated restructurings of our debt and
    equity obligations
    and/or asset
    sales, which may be required to occur under court supervision
    pursuant to a voluntary bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11
    of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In addition, under certain
    circumstances creditors may file an involuntary petition for
    bankruptcy against us. Due to the possibility of such
    circumstances occurring, we have begun active planning for such
    potential restructurings.



    
    6



Table of Contents





    If we
    file for bankruptcy protection, our business and operations will
    be subject to certain risks


 


    A bankruptcy filing by or against GGP, GGPLP and certain of our
    subsidiaries (each referred to as a “filer”) would
    subject our business and operations to various risks, including
    but not limited to, the following:


 




    
    



        • 

        A bankruptcy filing by or against a filer may adversely affect
    our business prospects and our ability to operate during the
    reorganization process




 



        • 

        The coordination of a bankruptcy filing and operating under
    protection of the bankruptcy court would involve significant
    costs, including expenses of legal counsel and other
    professional advisors. These costs may be significantly higher
    than those of other companies due to our large size and complex
    legal structure




 



        • 

        We may have difficulty continuing to obtain and maintain
    contracts necessary to continue our operations and at affordable
    rates with competitive terms




 



        • 

        We may have difficulty maintaining existing and building new
    tenant relationships




 



        • 

        Transactions by filers outside the ordinary course of business
    would be subject to the prior approval of the court, which may
    limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take
    advantage of certain opportunities




 



        • 

        Filers may not be able to obtain court approval or such approval
    may be delayed with respect to motions made in the
    reorganization cases




 



        • 

        We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and
    associates through the process of reorganization, and we may
    have difficulty attracting new employees




 



        • 

        There can be no assurance as to our ability to maintain or
    obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund
    any reorganization plan and meet future obligations




 



        • 

        There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully
    develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of
    reorganization that are acceptable to the bankruptcy court and
    our creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest




 



        • 

        The value of our common stock could be reduced to zero as result
    of a bankruptcy filing




 



        • 

        Under certain scenarios, a bankruptcy filing may result in
    adverse effects to certain of our joint ventures, including the
    dissolution or a loss of control by us over the operations of
    such ventures




 



        • 

        A bankruptcy filing may adversely affect our ability to satisfy
    the REIT distribution requirements





 



    Liquidity
    Risks


 



    We may
    not be able to refinance, extend or repay our substantial
    indebtedness, which could have a materially adverse affect on
    our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    common stock price


 


    We have a substantial amount of debt which we may not be able to
    extend, refinance or repay. As of December 31, 2008, we had
    an aggregate consolidated indebtedness outstanding of
    $24.85 billion (Note 6) of which
    $6.58 billion was unsecured, recourse indebtedness of the
    Operating Partnership and consolidated subsidiaries, while
    $18.27 billion was secured by our properties. A majority of
    the secured indebtedness was non-recourse to us. This
    indebtedness does not include our proportionate share of
    indebtedness incurred by our Unconsolidated Properties. In
    December, 2008, we entered into forbearance agreements with the
    lenders for certain loans, as described elsewhere in this report.


 


    There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance or
    extend our debt on acceptable terms or otherwise. Our ability to
    refinance our debt is negatively affected by the current
    condition of the credit markets, which have significantly
    reduced levels of commercial lending. Our ability to
    successfully refinance or extend our debt is also negatively
    affected by recent downgrades of our debt by national credit
    ratings agencies as well as the real or perceived decline in the
    value of our properties based on continued significant
    deterioration of general and retail economic conditions, as
    discussed further below. Our substantial indebtedness also
    requires us to use a material portion of our cash flow to
    service principal and interest on our debt, which will limit the
    cash flow available for other business expenses or opportunities.



    
    7



Table of Contents




    We do not have the cash necessary to repay our debt as it
    matures. Therefore, failure to refinance or extend our debt as
    it comes due, or a failure to satisfy the conditions and
    requirements of such debt, will result in an event of default
    under such debt and would allow the lender to accelerate such
    debt. In addition, a default under certain debt obligations
    could also constitute an event of default under other debt as a
    result of certain cross-default and cross collateralization
    provisions. Although we have entered into forbearance agreements
    with certain lenders pursuant to which they have agreed to
    refrain from exercising certain rights and remedies under
    specified loans, these agreements are subject to certain early
    termination provisions, and there can be no assurance that these
    forbearance agreements will be extended beyond their existing
    terms or that similar agreements will be reached with lenders of
    other debt in the event of a default by us. In the event we
    default under debt which is secured by one or more properties,
    we may be required to transfer such property or properties to
    the lender to satisfy the terms of such debt.


 


    If we are unable to refinance or extend our debt as it comes due
    and maintain sufficient cash flow, our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and common stock price will be
    materially and adversely affected, and we may be required to
    file for bankruptcy protection, as discussed under
    “Bankruptcy Risks.”


 



    Even
    if we are able to refinance or extend our indebtedness, our
    substantial indebtedness would still adversely affect our
    financial health and operating flexibility


 


    Risks related to debt level.  Even if we are
    able to refinance or extend our substantial indebtedness, our
    indebtedness could still have important consequences to us and
    the value of our common stock, including:


 




    
    



        • 

        Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working
    capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
    execution of our business strategy or other purposes




 



        • 

        Limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas
    of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a
    substantial portion of these funds to service the debt




 



        • 

        Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions, including increases in interest rates,
    particularly given our substantial indebtedness which bears
    interest at variable rates




 



        • 

        Limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and
    to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in
    government regulation




 



        • 

        Limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance
    indebtedness




 



        • 

        Limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging
    transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom
    we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of
    those transactions





 


    The terms of the 2006 Credit Facility and certain other debt
    also require us to satisfy certain customary affirmative and
    negative covenants and to meet financial ratios and tests,
    including ratios and tests based on leverage, interest coverage
    and net worth. In addition, the forbearance agreements we have
    entered into further restrict our operations. The covenants and
    other restrictions under our debt and forbearance agreements
    affect, among other things, our ability to:


 




    
    



        • 

        Incur indebtedness




 



        • 

        Create liens on assets




 



        • 

        Sell assets




 



        • 

        Manage our cash flows




 



        • 

        Transfer assets to other subsidiaries




 



        • 

        Make capital expenditures




 



        • 

        Engage in mergers and acquisitions




 



        • 

        Make distributions to equity holders, including holders of our
    common stock





 


    Risks related to refinancings.  Due to the
    current lending environment, our financial condition and general
    economic factors, it is unlikely that we will be able to
    refinance our debt. In addition, in the event we are able to
    refinance all or a portion of our debt, it is likely that this
    new debt will contain terms which are less attractive than



    
    8



Table of Contents




    the terms contained in the debt being refinanced. Such terms may
    include more restrictive operational and financial covenants, as
    well as higher fees and interest rates.


 


    Risks related to extensions.  In the event we
    obtain extensions on existing debt, including both short term
    forbearance agreements and longer term extensions, such
    extensions will likely include operational and financial
    covenants significantly more restrictive than our current debt
    covenants. For example, the forbearance agreements entered into
    in December 2008 significantly restrict our ability to, among
    other things, incur indebtedness, sell assets, make capital
    expenditures, makes changes to our organizational structure,
    manage our cash flows and engage in other transactions outside
    the ordinary course of business. Additional forbearance
    agreements or longer term extensions may contain similar or more
    stringent conditions, which are likely to include provisions
    which significantly restrict the distribution of cash flows from
    properties serving as collateral for such debt. Any such
    extensions will also require us to pay certain fees to, and
    expenses of, our lenders. These fees and cash flow restrictions
    will affect our ability to fund our on-going operations from our
    operating cash flows, as discussed below.


 


    Given the restrictions in our debt covenants, as well as the
    significant additional covenants and restrictions contained in
    our forbearance agreements and in any loan extensions we may
    obtain in the future, we may be significantly limited in our
    operating and financial flexibility and may be limited in our
    ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive
    activities.


 



    We may
    not have sufficient cash to maintain our
    operations


 


    Our operating cash flows are not sufficient to pay our debt as
    it comes due. In addition, there can be no assurance that our
    cash flows from operations will be sufficient to pay the
    interest on our debt and other operating expenses. Cash inflows
    could be negatively affected by deteriorating conditions in the
    retail sector, as described under “Business Risks.” In
    addition, we face significantly higher operating expenses due in
    part to payments to our financial and legal advisors, as well as
    fees and other amounts payable to our lenders in connection with
    loan extensions or refinancings. Such extensions and
    refinancings may also restrict how we utilize our operating cash
    flows. Because we have limited short term sources of cash, in
    the event that our cash flows from operations are insufficient
    to fund our operating expenses, we may be required to file for
    bankruptcy protection, as discussed under “Bankruptcy
    Risks.”


 



    We may
    not be able to raise capital to repay debt or finance our
    operations


 


    We are working to generate capital from a variety of sources,
    including, but not limited to, both core and non-core property
    sales, the sale of joint venture interests, a corporate level
    capital infusion,
    and/or
    strategic business combinations. There can be no assurance that
    any of these planned capital raising activities will be
    successful.


 


    Our ability to sell our properties or raise capital through
    other means is limited.  The deteriorating retail
    economic climate negatively affects the value of our properties
    and therefore reduces our ability to sell these properties on
    acceptable terms. Our ability to sell our properties is also
    negatively affected by the weakness of the credit markets, which
    increases the cost and difficulty for potential purchasers to
    acquire financing, as well as by the illiquid nature of real
    estate. Finally, our current financial difficulties may
    encourage potential purchasers to offer less attractive terms
    for our properties. These conditions also negatively affect our
    ability to raise capital through other means, including through
    the sale of equity or joint venture interests, or through a
    potential strategic business combination. See “Business
    Risks” for a further discussion of the effects of the
    deteriorating retail economic climate on our properties, as well
    as the illiquid nature of our investments in our properties.


 


    We have a low tax basis in many of our properties relative to
    fair market value.  We have a low tax basis in
    many of our properties relative to the fair market value of such
    properties. As a result of this low tax basis, we could
    recognize a substantial taxable gain upon the sale of such
    properties, which would impact the amount of net proceeds we
    would retain from any such sales as a result of the REIT
    distribution requirements.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    Common
    Stock Investment Risks


 



    The
    recent decline in our common stock price could have materially
    adverse effects on our business


 


    The price of our common stock has declined significantly and
    rapidly since September 2008. In the event we seek bankruptcy
    protection, it is possible that the value of our common stock
    could decline further. This reduction in stock price could have
    materially adverse effects on our business, including reducing
    our ability to use our common stock as compensation or to
    otherwise provide incentives to employees and by reducing our
    ability to generate capital through stock sales or otherwise use
    our stock as currency with third parties.


 


    The average closing price of our common stock has been less than
    $1.00 over a consecutive 30
    trading-day
    period, and as a result, our stock could be delisted from the
    NYSE. The threat of delisting
    and/or a
    delisting of our common stock could have adverse effects by,
    among other things:


 




    
    



        • 

        Reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock




 



        • 

        Reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our
    common stock, thereby further restricting our ability to obtain
    equity financing




 



        • 

        Causing an event of default or noncompliance under certain of
    our debt facilities and other agreements




 



        • 

        Reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our
    directors, officers and employees





 



    Our
    common stock price may be volatile, and consequently investors
    may not be able to resell their common stock at or above their
    purchase price


 


    The price at which our common stock will trade may be volatile
    and may fluctuate due to factors such as:


 




    
    



        • 

        Our financial condition and performance, including the risk of
    bankruptcy




 



        • 

        Our quarterly and annual operating results




 



        • 

        Our decision to suspend our dividend in October 2008 and any
    future actions with respect to dividends




 



        • 

        Variations between our actual results and analyst and investor
    expectations or changes in financial estimates and
    recommendations by securities analysts




 



        • 

        The performance and prospects of our industry




 



        • 

        The depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock




 



        • 

        Concentration of ownership




 



        • 

        Short sales of our stock triggered by hedging activities,
    including the purchase of credit default swaps, by certain of
    our lenders




 



        • 

        Investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate




 



        • 

        Domestic and international economic conditions




 



        • 

        The extent of institutional investor interest in us




 



        • 

        The reputation of REITs generally and the attractiveness of
    their equity securities in comparison to other equity
    securities, including securities issued by other real estate
    companies, and fixed income securities




 



        • 

        General market volatility, conditions and trends





 


    Fluctuations may be unrelated to or disproportionate to our
    financial performance. These fluctuations may result in a
    material decline in the trading price of our common stock.


 



    Future
    issuances of our common stock may depress our stock
    price


 


    As of February 20, 2008, 12.6 million shares of common
    stock were issuable upon exercise of conversion
    and/or
    redemption rights as to units of limited partnership interest in
    the Operating Partnership. An additional 14.0 million



    
    10



Table of Contents




    shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance to meet our
    obligations under the CSA, although based on the current market
    price of our common stock, a substantially greater number of
    shares may ultimately be issuable pursuant to the CSA, which
    would result in the beneficiaries of the CSA holding
    substantially all of our outstanding common stock. In addition,
    we have reserved a number of shares of common stock for issuance
    under our restricted stock, option and other benefit plans for
    employees and directors and in connection with certain other
    obligations, including convertible debt and these shares will be
    available for sale from time to time. Finally, we may issue
    stock dividends in order to satisfy the requirements for
    qualification of a REIT in the event that we have insufficient
    liquidity to pay the dividend in cash. No prediction can be made
    as to the effect, if any, that these and other future sales of
    our common stock, or the availability of common stock for future
    sales, will have on the market price of the stock. Sales in the
    public market of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the
    perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect
    prevailing market prices for our common stock.


 



    Increases
    in market interest rates may hurt the market price of our common
    stock


 


    Although we suspended our dividend in October 2008, we believe
    that investors consider the distribution rate on REIT stocks,
    expressed as a percentage of the price of the stocks, relative
    to market interest rates, as an important factor in deciding
    whether to buy or sell the stocks. If market interest rates
    increase, prospective purchasers of REIT stocks may expect a
    higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not,
    however, result in more funds being available for us to
    distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing
    costs and might decrease our funds available for distribution.
    Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price
    of our common stock to decline further.


 



    Business
    Risks


 



    Our
    senior management changes and focus on refinancing alternatives
    may adversely affect us


 


    We are currently working with our advisors to develop a
    comprehensive strategic plan to generate capital from a variety
    of sources. In addition, in October 2008, we replaced our Chief
    Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer. This
    focus on capital raising activities and recent changes in our
    senior management could adversely affect our operations in a
    number of ways, including the risks that such activities could,
    among other things:


 




    
    



        • 

        Disrupt operations and distract management




 



        • 

        Fail to successfully achieve their expected benefits




 



        • 

        Be time consuming and expensive and result in the loss of
    business opportunities




 



        • 

        Subject us to litigation




 



        • 

        Result in increased difficulties due to uncertainties regarding
    our future operations




 



        • 

        Cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease
    and/or be
    highly volatile





 



    We are
    party to securities, ERISA, and shareholder derivative
    litigation that distracts our management, is expensive to
    conduct, and seeks damages awards against us.


 


    We and certain of our current and former directors and officers
    have been named as defendants in putative class action lawsuits
    filed in the United States District Court for the Northern
    District of Illinois (collectively, the “Shareholder
    Suits”). The Shareholder Suits seek unspecified damages and
    purport to allege claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
    Rule 10b-5
    on the grounds that false and misleading statements were made
    relating to the Company’s refinancing ability and the
    nondisclosure of certain loans to officers from an affiliate of
    another officer’s family trust. In addition, three former
    employees, each claiming to represent a putative class, filed
    separate lawsuits against us and certain of our current and
    former directors and officers in the United States District
    Court for the Northern District of Illinois (collectively, the
    “ERISA Suits”) asserting breaches of fiduciary duty in
    connection with the management and administration of the
    Company’s 401(k) Savings Plan (the “Plan”). The
    ERISA Suits seek unspecified damages from the defendants for the
    alleged breach of the fiduciary duties of loyalty and prudence
    owed to the Plan participants by continuing to



    
    11



Table of Contents




    allow or failing to cap purchases of our stock when the
    defendants allegedly knew or should have known such purchases
    were not prudent. Also, a shareholder has also filed a
    derivative lawsuit in the Circuit Court for Cook County,
    Illinois (the “Derivative Suit”) seeking recovery on
    behalf of the Company against certain of our current and former
    directors and officers for the defendants’ alleged breach
    of fiduciary duties in making false and misleading statements
    regarding our ability to access financing, failing to disclose
    the existence of certain loans to two officers from an affiliate
    of another officer’s family trust, and engaging in insider
    trading (with respect to certain defendants). With respect to
    all of these matters (collectively, the “Pending
    Suits”), we have certain obligations to indemnify and
    advance expenses to our officers and directors. Although we have
    directors and officers liability insurance and fiduciary
    liability insurance, it is uncertain whether the insurance will
    be sufficient to cover all damages, if any, that we may be
    required to pay. In addition, the Pending Suits may distract the
    attention of our management, and we have and may continue to
    incur substantial legal and other professional service costs in
    connection with each of the Pending Suits. The amount of any
    future costs or damages cannot be determined at this time and
    could be significant.


 



    Deteriorating
    economic conditions, especially in the retail sector, will have
    an adverse affect on our revenues and available
    cash


 


    General and retail economic conditions continue to weaken, and
    we expect this weakness to continue and worsen in 2009. The
    unemployment rate is expected to continue to rise, consumer
    confidence and spending has decreased dramatically and the stock
    market remains extremely volatile. Given these expected economic
    conditions, we believe there is a significantly increased risk
    that the sales of stores operating in our centers will continue
    to decrease, which will have the following negative effect on
    our operations:


 


    Ability to lease and collect rent.  Our results
    of operations depend on our ability to continue to lease space
    in our properties on economically favorable terms. If the sales
    of stores operating in our centers decline sufficiently, tenants
    might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense
    recovery charges, since these rents and charges would represent
    a higher percentage of their sales. If our tenants’ sales
    decline, new tenants would be less likely to be willing to pay
    minimum rents as high as they would otherwise pay. In addition,
    as substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of
    real property, our income and cash available for debt service,
    operations or distribution to our stockholders would be
    adversely affected if a significant number of tenants were
    unable to meet their obligations to us.


 


    Bankruptcy or store closures of tenants.  Our
    leases generally do not contain provisions designed to ensure
    the creditworthiness of the tenant, and a number of companies in
    the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have
    declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed certain of their
    stores in recent years, and this trend is expected to increase
    in 2009. The bankruptcy or closure of a major tenant,
    particularly an Anchor, may have a material adverse effect on
    the retail properties affected and the income produced by these
    properties and may make it substantially more difficult to lease
    the remainder of the affected retail properties. As a result,
    the bankruptcy or closure of a major tenant and potential
    additional closures as a result of co-tenancy requirements could
    result in a lower level of revenues and cash available.


 


    Department store productivity.  Department
    store consolidations, as well as declining sales productivity in
    certain instances, are resulting in the closure of existing
    department stores and we may be unable to re-lease this area or
    to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. Other
    tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing
    leases, including those pertaining to rent payment, in the event
    of such closures. Additionally, department store closures could
    result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to
    decreased sales at other stores.


 


    Ability to attract new tenants.  The factors
    described above not only effect our current tenants and
    operations, but also indirectly effect our ability to attract
    new tenants.


 



    It may
    be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, and transfer
    restrictions apply to some of our properties


 


    Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and this
    characteristic tends to limit our ability to vary our portfolio
    promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.
    In addition, significant expenditures associated with each
    equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes
    and maintenance costs, are



    
    12



Table of Contents




    generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in
    income from the investment. If income from a property declines
    while the related expenses do not decline, our income and cash
    available to us would be adversely affected. A significant
    portion of our properties are mortgaged to secure payment of
    indebtedness, and if we were unable to meet our mortgage
    payments, we could lose money as a result of foreclosure on the
    properties by the various mortgagees. In addition, if it becomes
    necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of the
    mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release
    of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the
    associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or
    inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of
    cash available to us.


 



    A
    change in control may effect our ability to use our net
    operating loss and interest expense carry forwards


 


    If we have a change in control, as defined in section 382 of the
    Code, our ability to use our net operating loss and interest
    expense carry forwards to offset future cash taxes may be
    reduced or eliminated. The significant stock activity we have
    recently experienced and the possibility of issuing additional
    equity to address our liquidity needs increases the risk of this
    provision impacting us in the future.


 



    Holders
    of statutory and other liens on our properties could take steps
    to perfect their interests in such properties, which could lead
    to foreclosure


 


    Statutory liens, including mechanics’ and tax liens, have
    been imposed on our properties, and the imposition of additional
    liens may occur. In the event that the holders of these liens
    seek to perfect their interests in our properties subject to
    such liens, foreclosure proceeds with respect to such properties
    could occur.


 



    We
    invest primarily in regional shopping centers and other
    properties, which are subject to a number of significant risks
    which are beyond our control


 


    Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk
    that may affect the ability of our properties to generate
    sufficient revenues. A number of factors may decrease the income
    generated by a retail property, including:


 




    
    



        • 

        The regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted
    by plant closings, industry slowdowns, adverse weather
    conditions, natural disasters and other factors




 



        • 

        Local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a
    reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the
    availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective
    tenants




 



        • 

        Perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience
    and attractiveness of the retail property




 



        • 

        The convenience and quality of competing retail properties and
    other retailing options such as the internet




 



        • 

        Changes in laws and regulations applicable to real property,
    including tax and zoning laws




 



        • 

        Changes in interest rate levels and the availability and cost of
    financing





 


    Our Master Planned Communities are also affected by some of the
    above factors, as well as the significant weakening of the
    housing market which began in 2007 and is expected to continue.


 


    If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our
    properties, including those held by joint ventures, we will be
    unable to meet operating and other expenses, including debt
    service, lease payments, capital expenditures and tenant
    improvements, and to make distributions from our joint ventures
    and then, in turn, to our stockholders.


 



    We
    develop and expand properties, and this activity is subject to
    various risks


 


    Although we have significantly reduced our development and
    expansion activities, certain development and expansion projects
    will be undertaken. In connection with any development or
    expansion, we will be subject to various risks, including the
    following:


 




    
    



        • 
    
    We have delayed and may abandon development or expansion
    activities already under way, which may result in additional
    cost recognition






    
    13



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        • 

        Construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates or
    available financing, possibly making the project unfeasible or
    unprofitable




 



        • 

        We may not be able to obtain zoning, occupancy or other required
    governmental permits and authorizations




 



        • 

        Occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may not meet
    projections and, therefore, the project may not be profitable




 



        • 

        We may not be able to obtain Anchor, mortgage lender and
    property partner approvals, if applicable, for expansion or
    redevelopment activities





 


    If a development project is unsuccessful, our investment in the
    project may not be fully recoverable from future operations or
    sale.


 



    We may
    incur costs to comply with environmental laws


 


    Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and
    regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real
    estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or
    toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable
    to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage
    or personal injuries and for investigation and
    clean-up
    costs incurred by the parties in connection with the
    contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard
    to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible
    for, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The
    presence of contamination or the failure to remediate
    contamination may adversely affect the owner’s ability to
    sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as
    collateral. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and
    regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing
    materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or
    remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for some of our
    redevelopments, and also govern emissions of and exposure to
    asbestos fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate
    the operation and removal of underground storage tanks. In
    connection with the ownership, operation and management of our
    properties, we could be held liable for the costs of remedial
    action with respect to these regulated substances or tanks or
    related claims.


 


    Our properties have been subjected to varying degrees of
    environmental assessment at various times. However, the
    identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the
    extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup
    requirements could result in significant costs to us.


 



    We are
    in a competitive business


 


    There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our
    properties in attracting retailers to lease space. In addition,
    retailers at our properties face continued competition from
    retailers at other regional shopping centers, including outlet
    malls and other discount shopping centers, discount shopping
    clubs, catalog companies, internet sales and telemarketing.
    Competition of this type could adversely affect our revenues and
    cash available for distribution to our stockholders.


 


    We compete with other major real estate investors with
    significant capital for attractive investment opportunities.
    These competitors include other REITs, investment banking firms
    and private institutional investors.


 



    Some
    of our properties are subject to potential natural or other
    disasters


 


    A number of our properties are located in areas which are
    subject to natural disasters. For example, two of our
    properties, located in the New Orleans area, suffered major
    hurricane
    and/or
    vandalism damage in 2005. It is uncertain as to whether the New
    Orleans area will recover to its prior economic strength.
    Certain of our properties are located in California or in other
    areas with higher risk of earthquakes. In addition, many of our
    properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore
    be affected by any future increases in sea levels or in the
    frequency or severity of hurricanes and tropical storms, whether
    such increases are caused by global climate changes or other
    factors.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    Possible
    terrorist activity or other acts of violence could adversely
    affect our financial condition and results of
    operations


 


    Future terrorist attacks in the United States, and other acts of
    violence, including terrorism or war, might result in declining
    economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and
    services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties
    and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our
    securities. A decrease in retail demand could make it difficult
    for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal
    to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities or violence
    also could directly affect the value of our properties through
    damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance
    for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower, or
    cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and
    adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations. To the extent that our tenants are affected by
    future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely
    affected, including their ability to continue to meet
    obligations under their existing leases. These acts might erode
    business and consumer confidence and spending, and might result
    in increased volatility in national and international financial
    markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease
    demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our
    new or redeveloped properties, and limit our access to capital
    or increase our cost of raising capital.


 



    Some
    potential losses are not insured


 


    We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake,
    terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of
    our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured
    limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There
    are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other
    contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an
    uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we
    could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a
    property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the
    property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain
    obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations
    related to the property.


 



    Inflation
    may adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations


 


    Should inflation increase in the future, we may experience any
    or all of the following:


 




    
    



        • 

        Decreasing tenant sales as a result of decreased consumer
    spending which could result in lower overage rents




 



        • 

        Difficulty in replacing or renewing expiring leases with new
    leases at higher base
    and/or
    overage rents




 



        • 

        An inability to receive reimbursement from our tenants for their
    share of certain operating expenses, including common area
    maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance





 


    Inflation also poses a potential threat to us due to the
    probability of future increases in interest rates. Such
    increases would adversely impact us due to our outstanding
    variable-rate debt as well as result in higher interest rates on
    new fixed-rate debt.


 



    We
    have certain ownership interests outside the United States which
    may increase in relative significance over time


 


    We hold interests in joint venture properties in Brazil, Turkey
    and Costa Rica. Although we do not currently expect to pursue
    additional expansion opportunities outside the United States, we
    may do so in the future. International development and ownership
    activities carry additional risks that are different from those
    we face with our domestic properties and operations. These
    additional risks include:


 




    
    



        • 

        Difficulties in managing international operations




 



        • 

        Changes in foreign political environments, regionally,
    nationally, and locally




 



        • 

        Challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws
    including corporate governance, operations, taxes and litigation




 



        • 

        Differing lending practices




 



        • 

        Differences in cultures






    
    15



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        • 

        Adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign
    currencies




 



        • 

        Changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States
    that affect foreign operations




 



        • 

        Obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash





 


    Although our international activities currently are a relatively
    small portion of our business (international properties
    represented less than approximately 1% of the NOI of all of our
    properties in 2008), to the extent that we expand our
    international activities, these additional risks could increase
    in significance and adversely affect our results of operations
    and financial condition.


 



    Organizational
    Risks


 



    Payments
    by our direct and indirect subsidiaries of dividends and
    distributions to us may be adversely affected by prior payments
    to these subsidiaries’ creditors and preferred security
    holders


 


    Substantially all of our assets are owned through our general
    partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, including
    TRCLP. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of its
    properties and assets through subsidiaries, including subsidiary
    partnerships, limited liability companies and corporations that
    have elected to be taxed as REITs. The Operating Partnership
    therefore derives substantially all of its cash flow from cash
    distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and we, in turn, derive
    substantially all of our cash flow from cash distributions to us
    by the Operating Partnership. The creditors and preferred
    security holders, if any, of each of our direct and indirect
    subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s
    obligations to them, when due and payable, before that
    subsidiary may make distributions to us. Thus, the Operating
    Partnership’s ability to make distributions to its
    partners, including us, depends on its subsidiaries’
    ability first to satisfy obligations to their creditors and
    preferred security holders, if any, and then to make
    distributions to the Operating Partnership. Similarly, our
    ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock depends
    on the Operating Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its
    obligations to its creditors and preferred security holders and
    then to make distributions to us.


 


    In addition, we will have the right to participate in any
    distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect
    subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency
    of the subsidiary only after the claims of the creditors,
    including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if
    any, of the subsidiary are satisfied. Our common stockholders,
    in turn, will have the right to participate in any distribution
    of our assets upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency
    of us only after the claims of our creditors, including trade
    creditors, and preferred security holders, if any, are satisfied.


 



    We
    have significant obligations under a Contingent Stock Agreement
    we assumed in the TRC Merger


 


    We have assumed the obligations of TRC under a Contingent Stock
    Agreement, which we refer to as the “CSA.” The
    assumption includes the obligation under the CSA to potentially
    issue shares of common stock twice a year to the beneficiaries
    under the CSA and certain indemnification obligations. The
    number of shares is based upon our stock price and upon a
    formula set forth in the CSA. In addition, the CSA requires a
    valuation of certain assets that we own as of December 31,
    2009, which is expected to result in the issuance of a
    significant number of additional shares to the beneficiaries
    under the CSA. Such issuances will be significantly dilutive to
    our existing stockholders. Based on the current market price of
    our common stock, the number of shares ultimately issuable under
    the CSA would be substantially greater than previously
    anticipated, which would result in the beneficiaries under the
    CSA holding substantially all of our outstanding common stock.


 



    We
    share control of some of our properties with other investors and
    may have conflicts of interest with those
    investors


 


    While we generally make all operating decisions for the
    Unconsolidated Properties, we are required to make other
    decisions with the other investors who have interests in the
    relevant property or properties. For example, the approval of
    certain of the other investors is required with respect to
    operating budgets and refinancing, encumbering, expanding or
    selling any of these properties, as well as to bankruptcy
    decisions related to the Unconsolidated Properties and related
    joint ventures. We might not have the same interests as the
    other investors in relation to these



    
    16



Table of Contents




    transactions. Accordingly, we might not be able to favorably
    resolve any of these issues, or we might have to provide
    financial or other inducement to the other investors to obtain a
    favorable resolution.


 


    In addition, various restrictive provisions and rights apply to
    sales or transfers of interests in our jointly owned properties.
    These may work to our disadvantage because, among other things,
    we might be required to make decisions about buying or selling
    interests in a property or properties at a time that is
    disadvantageous to us.


 



    Bankruptcy
    of joint venture partners could impose delays and costs on us
    with respect to the jointly owned retail
    properties


 


    In addition to the possible effects on our joint ventures of a
    bankruptcy filing by us, the bankruptcy of one of the other
    investors in any of our jointly owned shopping centers could
    materially and adversely affect the relevant property or
    properties. Under the bankruptcy laws, we would be precluded
    from taking some actions affecting the estate of the other
    investor without prior approval of the bankruptcy court, which
    would, in most cases, entail prior notice to other parties and a
    hearing in the bankruptcy court. At a minimum, the requirement
    to obtain court approval may delay the actions we would or might
    want to take. If the relevant joint venture through which we
    have invested in a property has incurred recourse obligations,
    the discharge in bankruptcy of one of the other investors might
    result in our ultimate liability for a greater portion of those
    obligations than we would otherwise bear.


 



    We are
    impacted by tax-related obligations to some of our
    partners


 


    We own properties through partnerships which have arrangements
    in place that protect the deferred tax situation of our existing
    third party limited partners. Violation of these arrangements
    could impose costs on us. As a result, we may be restricted with
    respect to decisions such as financing, encumbering, expanding
    or selling these properties.


 


    Several of our joint venture partners are tax-exempt. As such,
    they are taxable to the extent of their share of unrelated
    business taxable income generated from these properties. As the
    managing partner in these joint ventures, we have obligations to
    avoid the creation of unrelated business taxable income at these
    properties. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to
    decisions such as financing and revenue generation with respect
    to these properties.


 



    We may
    not maintain our status as a REIT


 


    One of the requirements of the Code for a REIT generally is that
    it distribute or pay tax on 100% of its capital gains and
    distribute at least 90% of its ordinary taxable income to its
    stockholders. We may not have sufficient liquidity to meet these
    distribution requirements.


 


    If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our
    qualification as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct
    distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income
    and federal income tax. The corporate level income tax,
    including any applicable alternative minimum tax, would apply to
    our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As a result, the
    amount available for distribution to stockholders would be
    reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer
    be required to make distributions. In addition, unless we were
    entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we
    would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for four
    subsequent taxable years.


 



    An
    ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses and
    applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire
    us


 


    The ownership limit.  Generally, for us to
    maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more
    than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock
    may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer
    individuals at any time during the last half of our taxable
    year. The Code defines “individuals” for purposes of
    the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include
    some types of entities. In general, under our current
    certificate of incorporation, no person other than Martin
    Bucksbaum (deceased), Matthew Bucksbaum, their families and
    related trusts and entities, including M.B. Capital Partners
    III, may own more than 7.5% of the value of our outstanding
    capital stock. However, our certificate of incorporation also
    permits our company to exempt a



    
    17



Table of Contents




    person from the 7.5% ownership limit upon the satisfaction of
    certain conditions which are described in our certificate of
    incorporation.


 


    Selected provisions of our charter
    documents.  Our board of directors is divided into
    three classes of directors. Directors of each class are chosen
    for three-year staggered terms. Staggered terms of directors may
    reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change
    control of our company, even though a tender offer or change in
    control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our
    charter authorizes the board of directors:


 




    
    



        • 

        To cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares
    of common stock or preferred stock




 



        • 

        To classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued
    preferred stock




 



        • 

        To set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified
    or reclassified stock that we issue





 


    Stockholder rights plan.  We have a stockholder
    rights plan which will impact a potential acquirer unless the
    acquirer negotiates with our board of directors and the board of
    directors approves the transaction.


 


    Selected provisions of Delaware law.  We are a
    Delaware corporation, and Section 203 of the Delaware
    General Corporation Law applies to us. In general,
    Section 203 prevents an “interested stockholder,”
    as defined in the next sentence, from engaging in a
    “business combination,” as defined in the statute,
    with us for three years following the date that person becomes
    an interested stockholder unless one or more of the following
    occurs:


 




    
    



        • 

        Before that person became an interested stockholder, our board
    of directors approved the transaction in which the interested
    stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the
    business combination




 



        • 

        Upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the
    interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the
    interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock
    outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for
    purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not
    the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested
    stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers of
    the Company and by employee stock plans that do not provide
    employees with the right to determine confidentially whether
    shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or
    exchange offer




 



        • 

        Following the transaction in which that person became an
    interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by
    our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of
    stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least
    two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the
    interested stockholder





 


    The statute defines “interested stockholder” to mean
    generally any person that is the owner of 15% or more of our
    outstanding voting stock or is an affiliate or associate of us
    and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock
    at any time within the three-year period immediately before the
    date of determination.


 


    Each item discussed above may delay, deter or prevent a change
    in control of our Company, even if a proposed transaction is at
    a premium over the then current market price for our common
    stock. Further, these provisions may apply in instances where
    some stockholders consider a transaction beneficial to them. As
    a result, our stock price may be negatively affected by these
    provisions.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information


 


    We may make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and
    in other reports which we file with the SEC. In addition, our
    senior management might make forward-looking statements orally
    to analysts, investors, the media and others.


 


    Forward-looking statements include:


 




    
    



        • 

        Descriptions of plans or objectives of our management for debt
    repayment or restructuring, strategic alternatives, and future
    operations




 



        • 

        Projections of our revenues, income, earnings per share, Funds
    From Operations (“FFO”), capital expenditures, income
    tax and other contingent liabilities, dividends, leverage,
    capital structure or other financial items




 



        • 

        Forecasts of our future economic performance






    
    18



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        • 
    
    Descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the
    foregoing





 


    In this Annual Report, for example, we make forward-looking
    statements discussing our expectations about:


 




    
    



        • 

        Bankruptcy and liquidity




 



        • 

        Future financings, repayment of debt and interest rates




 



        • 

        Expected sales of our Master Planned Communities segment




 



        • 

        Future development, management and leasing fees




 



        • 

        Distributions pursuant to the Contingent Stock Agreement




 



        • 

        Future cash needed to meet federal income tax requirements




 



        • 

        Future development spending





 


    Forward-looking statements discuss matters that are not
    historical facts. Because they discuss future events or
    conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such
    as “anticipate,” “believe,”
    “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,”
    “plan,” “project,” “target,”
    “can,” “could,” “may,”
    “should,” “will,” “would” or
    similar expressions. Forward-looking statements should not be
    unduly relied upon. They give our expectations about the future
    and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as
    of the date they are made and we might not update them to
    reflect changes that occur after the date they are made.


 


    There are several factors, many beyond our control, which could
    cause results to differ significantly from our expectations.
    Factors such as bankruptcy, credit, market, operational,
    liquidity, interest rate and other risks are described elsewhere
    in this Annual Report. Any factor described in this Annual
    Report could by itself, or together with one or more other
    factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations or
    financial condition. There are also other factors that we have
    not described in this Annual Report that could cause results to
    differ from our expectations.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B