ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

 BANKRUPTCY RISKS  

 We filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code  

        As more fully described in Item 1 Business, the Debtors filed voluntary petitions to reorganize under Chapter 11 on
April 16 and April 22, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the Track 1A Debtors have emerged from bankruptcy protection pursuant to confirmed plans of reorganization. The
Chapter 11 Cases relating to certain Track 1 Debtors and the 2010 Track Debtors, however, are still pending. During the remaining Chapter 11 Cases, we plan to continue to operate our
business as it relates to these Debtors as debtors-in-possession under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in accordance with the applicable provisions of
Chapter 11. Our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the continuing bankruptcy proceedings of certain
Debtors, including, but not limited to, the following: 



•Actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties with interests in our remaining Chapter 11 Cases may
be inconsistent with our plans 

9




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•We may be unable to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions in the remaining Chapter 11 Cases that
we believe are in the best interests of the Company   
•We may be unable to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate a plan or plans of reorganization with respect
to the Chapter 11 Cases for the Remaining Secured Debtors or TopCo Debtors (the "TopCo Plan of Reorganization")   
•We may encounter third parties seeking and obtaining Bankruptcy Court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusive
periods for us to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization for the 2010 Track Debtors, to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or to convert the remaining Chapter 11 Cases to a case under
Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code   
•We may not be able to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements and therefore be unable to remain qualified as a REIT  
•Our access to capital to fund ongoing business operations, fund emergence costs or initiate or continue development or
redevelopment at our properties may be limited 


        The
ultimate impact that events that occur during the bankruptcy proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted or quantified. 

 Our DIP Credit Agreement may not provide sufficient liquidity during the remaining Chapter 11 Cases  

        In the event that cash flows and borrowings under the DIP Credit Agreement are not sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements,
including the emergence costs for the Track 1 Debtors, we may be required to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that such additional financing would be available or, if available,
would be offered on acceptable terms. Failure to secure any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse impact on our operations and ongoing viability. 

 Operating under Chapter 11 may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies  

        Under Chapter 11, transactions outside the ordinary course of business will be subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy
Court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. We must obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to, among other
things: 



•Engage in certain transactions with our tenants   
•Sell assets outside the ordinary course of business   
•Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets   
•Grant liens   
•Finance our operations, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our
interest 


 The pursuit of the Chapter 11 Cases has consumed and will consume a substantial portion of the time and attention of our corporate management and will impact how our
business is conducted, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations  

        The requirements of the Chapter 11 Cases has consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of our corporate
management's time and attention and leave them with less time to devote to the operations of our business. Our management has spent considerable time developing the emergence plans for the Track 1
Debtors and the 2010 Track Debtors and the business plan for the Company. This diversion of corporate management's attention may have a material adverse effect on the conduct of our business, and, as
a result, on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. 

10




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 Our employees are facing considerable distractions and uncertainty due to the Chapter 11 Cases  


        As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our employees are facing considerable distractions and uncertainty. A material erosion of
employee morale could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. 

 The Company's business could suffer from the Chapter 11 Cases  

        The Chapter 11 Cases may negatively impact the operations of the Company. While the potential negative impact cannot be
predicted or quantified, risks include: 



•Our ability to retain and/or renew existing tenants and/or to obtain favorable lease terms may be hampered  
•We may be unable to build new tenant relationships and desirable new tenants may have concerns about entering into leases
at our properties   
•Our ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with vendors, strategic partners and service providers
may be hampered   
•Our ability to obtain and maintain contracts necessary to continue our operations at affordable rates with competitive
terms may be impaired 


 The Company's businesses could suffer from a long and protracted restructuring  

        The Company's future results are dependent upon the successful filing, confirmation and implementation of plans of reorganization for
the 2010 Track Debtors. Failure to complete the reorganization process in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company's operating results, including its relationships with tenants and
suppliers. If a liquidation or protracted reorganization were to occur, there is a significant risk that the value of the Company's enterprise would be substantially eroded to the detriment of all
stakeholders. 

        Furthermore,
the Company cannot predict the ultimate amount of all settlement terms for the Debtors' liabilities that will be subject to a plan of reorganization. Even once a plan of
reorganization is implemented, the Company's operating results may be adversely affected by the possible reluctance of prospective lenders, tenants, and suppliers to do business with a company that
recently emerged from bankruptcy proceedings. 

 Our ability to emerge from the Chapter 11 Cases will depend on obtaining sufficient exit financing or capital or the pursuit of a change of control transaction  


        For the TopCo Plan of Reorganization to be effective, we will need to obtain and demonstrate the sufficiency of exit financing or
capital to fund the remaining emergence costs of the Track 1 Debtors and the emergence costs of the 2010 Track Debtors. In addition to funding ongoing operational needs, exit financing or capital must
be sufficient to fund certain emergence costs
of the Track 1 Debtors as well as the TopCo Debtors to the extent existing cash reserves or operating cash flows are not sufficient. We cannot presently determine the final terms of such financing,
nor can there be any assurances of our success in obtaining it. In addition to pursuing traditional and non-traditional forms of exit financing or capital, we also intend to explore
potential merger and acquisition or other change of control transactions with financial and strategic investors. Failure to obtain exit financing or capital or conclude a change of control transaction
may further delay the emergence of the 2010 Track Debtors from bankruptcy protection. 

11




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 LIQUIDITY RISKS  

 We may not have sufficient cash to maintain our operations and fund our emergence costs  

        As discussed above under "Bankruptcy Risks," our DIP Credit Facility may not provide sufficient liquidity during the remaining
Chapter 11 Cases and exit financing or capital may not be sufficient to support our operations post-emergence. Our operating cash flows and exit financing or capital may not be
sufficient to pay our debt as it comes due, interest on our debt, emergence costs and other operating expenses. We face significantly higher operating expenses due in part to payments to our financial
and legal advisors, as well as fees and other amounts payable to our lenders in connection with loan restructurings. Because we have limited short-term sources of cash, in the event such
sources are insufficient to fund our needs, we may be unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy or implement our plan of reorganization. 

 We may be subject to claims that will not be discharged in the Chapter 11 Cases  

        The Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all debts arising
prior to confirmation and specified debts arising afterwards. With few exceptions, all claims that arose prior to the Petition Date and before confirmation of the plan of reorganization
(i) would be subject to compromise and/or treatment under the plan of reorganization or (ii) would be discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the plan of
reorganization. We currently do not believe that the
aggregate amount of claims that will not be subject to treatment under the plan of reorganization or not discharged, will be material, although such aggregate amount are not expected to have a
material adverse effect on our liquidity position. 

 We may not be able to raise capital through the sale of properties  

        Our ability to sell our properties to raise capital is limited. The retail economic climate negatively affects the value of our
properties and therefore reduces our ability to sell these properties on acceptable terms. Our ability to sell our properties is also negatively affected by the weakness of the credit markets, which
increases the cost and difficulty for potential purchasers to acquire financing, as well as by the illiquid nature of real estate. Finally, our Chapter 11 Cases may encourage potential
purchasers to offer less attractive terms for our properties and may delay any potential sale transaction and any such transaction contemplated by a Debtor must be approved by the Bankruptcy Court.
See "Business Risks" for a further discussion of the effects of the retail economic climate on our properties, as well as the illiquid nature of our investments in our properties. 


        We
have a low tax basis in many of our properties relative to the fair market value of such properties. As a result of this low tax basis, we could recognize a substantial taxable gain
upon the sale of such properties, which would impact the amount of net proceeds we would retain from any such sales as a result of the REIT distribution requirements. 

 We may not be able to refinance, extend or repay our portion of substantial indebtedness at our Unconsolidated Properties, which could have a material adverse affect on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price  

        Our Unconsolidated Properties have a substantial amount of debt which they not be able to extend, refinance or repay. As of
December 31, 2009, our share of indebtedness secured by our Unconsolidated Properties was $3.12 billion (Note 5). There can be no assurance that our Unconsolidated Properties will
be able to refinance or extend their debt on acceptable terms or otherwise. The ability to refinance this debt is negatively affected by the current condition of the credit markets, which have
significantly reduced the levels of capacity of commercial lending. The ability to successfully refinance or extend this debt may also be negatively affected by our bankruptcy 

12




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



proceedings
as well as the real or perceived decline in the value of our Unconsolidated Properties based on general and retail economic conditions, as discussed further below. 

 Our substantial indebtedness adversely affects our financial health and operating flexibility  

        Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us and the value of our common stock, including: 



•Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
execution of our business strategy or other purposes   
•Limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must
dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service debt   
•Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates,
particularly given our substantial indebtedness which bears interest at variable rates   
•Limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in
government regulation   
•Limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness   
•Limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom
we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions 


 Refinanced debt contains restrictions and less attractive covenants  

        We have refinanced $10.65 billion of secured mortgage debt since the Petition Date. The terms of certain debt require us to
satisfy certain customary affirmative and negative covenants and to meet financial ratios and tests, including ratios and tests based on leverage, interest coverage and net worth. The covenants and
other restrictions under our debt agreements affect, among other things, our ability to: 



•Incur indebtedness   
•Create liens on assets   
•Sell assets   
•Manage our cash flows   
•Transfer assets to other subsidiaries   
•Make capital expenditures   
•Engage in mergers and acquisitions   
•Make distributions to equity holders, including holders of our common stock 

13










<A
NAME="page_de45601_1_14"> 



































  
Table of Contents 

        Due to the current lending environment, our bankruptcy proceedings, our financial condition and general economic factors, this refinanced debt contains certain
terms which are less attractive than the terms contained in the debt being refinanced. Such terms include more restrictive operational and financial covenants, restrictions on the distribution of cash
flows from properties serving as collateral for the debt and higher fees and, in certain instances, higher interest rates. These fees and cash flow restrictions may affect our ability to fund our
on-going operations from our operating cash flows and we may be significantly limited in our operating and financial flexibility and thus may be limited in our ability to respond to
changes in our business or competitive activities. 

 COMMON STOCK RISKS  

 Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. It is possible our common stock will be
cancelled and that holders of such common stock will not receive any distribution with respect to, or be able to recover any portion of, their investments  


        It is not possible to determine if the TopCo Plan of Reorganization will allow for distributions with respect to our common stock and
other outstanding equity interests. It is possible that these equity interests will be cancelled and extinguished upon the approval of the Bankruptcy Court and the holders thereof would not be
entitled to receive, and would not receive or retain, any property or interest in property on account of such equity interests. In the event of a cancellation of these equity interests, amounts
invested by such holders in our outstanding equity securities will not be recoverable. Consequently, our currently outstanding common stock would have no value. Trading prices for our common stock are
very volatile and may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders of such securities in the Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, we urge that extreme caution be
exercised with respect to existing and future investments in our equity securities and any of our other securities. 

 Our common stock was delisted from the Exchange and is not listed on any other national securities exchange  

        On April 17, 2009, the Company's common stock began trading in the over the counter market in the Pink Sheets under the symbol
GGWPQ. The last day that the Company's common stock traded on the Exchange was April 16, 2009. 


        We
can provide no assurance that we will be able to re-list our common stock on a national securities exchange or that the stock will continue being traded on the Pink
Sheets. The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets rather than the Exchange may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our
stockholders. In addition, securities that trade on the Pink Sheets are not eligible for margin loans and make our common stock subject to the provisions of Rule 15g-9 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), commonly referred to as the "penny stock rule." 


 Risks of trading in an over the counter market  

        Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities
traded on a national securities exchange, through factors such as a reduction in the number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the number of market makers in the securities,
reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, holders of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell
their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock that could occur, the share price of our
common stock could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the markets perception of our business, and
announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. With 

14




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



respect
to the Company, in some cases, we may be subject to additional compliance requirements under applicable state laws in the issuance of our securities. The lack of liquidity in our common stock
may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future. 

 If holders of common stock recover any portion of their investment they may be subject to substantial dilution as a result of future issuances of our common stock  

        We may issue common stock to satisfy creditors of the TopCo Debtors and the TopCo Plan of Reorganization may include an equity-based
incentive compensation plan. The amount and dilutive effect of any such issuance can not be determined at this time. 


        We
may also issue shares of our common stock to meet our obligations under the Contingent Stock Agreement under which we assumed the obligations of TRC to the beneficiaries thereunder
(the "CSA"). In addition, we have reserved a number of shares of common stock for issuance under our restricted stock and option plans for employees and directors and in connection with certain other
obligations, including convertible debt and these shares will be available for sale from time to time. Finally, we issued approximately 4.9 million shares of common stock as a taxable stock
dividend in order to satisfy the requirements for qualification of a REIT and we currently expect to continue to issue taxable stock dividends to satisfy the requirements for REIT qualification. 

 BUSINESS RISKS  

 Economic conditions, especially in the retail sector, may have an adverse affect on our revenues and available cash  

        General and retail economic conditions continue to be weak, and we do not expect a near term return to the economic conditions that
prevailed in 2007. High unemployment, weak income growth, tight credit and the need to pay down existing debt are expected to continue to negatively impact consumer spending. Given these economic
conditions, we believe there is a significant risk that the sales of stores operating in our centers will either not improve, or will improve slowly which will have the following negative effect on
our operations: 

         Ability to lease and collect rent.    Our results of operations depend on our ability to continue to lease space in our properties on
economically
favorable terms. If the sales of certain stores operating in our centers do not improve sufficiently, tenants might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense recovery charges, since
these rents and charges would represent a higher percentage of their sales. If our tenants' sales do not improve, new tenants would be less likely to be willing to pay minimum rents as high as they
would otherwise pay. In addition, as substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of real property, our income and cash available for debt service, operations or distribution to our
stockholders would be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us. 

         Bankruptcy or store closures of tenants.    Our leases generally do not contain provisions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of the
tenant, and a
number of companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed certain of their stores in recent years. The bankruptcy or closure of a major
tenant, particularly an Anchor, may have a material adverse effect on the retail properties affected and the income produced by these properties and may make it substantially more difficult to lease
the remainder of the affected retail properties. As a result, the bankruptcy or closure of a major tenant and potential additional closures as a result of co-tenancy requirements could
result in a lower level of revenues and cash available. 

         Department store productivity.    Department store consolidations, as well as declining sales productivity in certain instances, are
resulting in the
closure of existing department stores and we may 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



be
unable to re-lease this area or to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases, including
those pertaining to rent payment, in the event of such closures. Additionally, department store closures could result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. 


        Ability to attract new tenants.    The factors described above not only affect our current tenants and operations, but also affect our
ability to
attract new tenants. 

 It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, and transfer restrictions apply to some of our properties  

        Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and this characteristic tends to limit our ability to vary our portfolio
promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with each equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and
maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. If income from a property declines while the related expenses do not decline, our
income and cash available to us would be adversely affected. If it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of the mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release
of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of cash
available to us. 

        If
we have a change in control, as defined in section 382 of the Code, our ability to use our net operating loss and interest expense carryforwards to offset future cash taxes may
be reduced or eliminated. The significant stock activity we have recently experienced and the possibility of issuing additional equity to address our liquidity needs increases the risk of this
provision impacting us in the future. 

 We invest primarily in regional shopping centers and other properties, which are subject to a number of significant risks which are beyond our control  

        Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk that may affect the ability of our properties to generate sufficient
revenues. A number of factors may decrease the income generated by a retail property, including: 



•The regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted by plant closings, industry slowdowns, adverse weather
conditions, natural disasters and other factors   
•Local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and
the availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants   
•Perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the retail property  
•The convenience and quality of competing retail properties and other retailing options such as the internet  
•Changes in laws and regulations applicable to real property, including tax and zoning laws 


        Our
Master Planned Communities are also affected by some of the above factors, as well as the significant weakening of the housing market which began in 2007 and is expected to continue. 

        If
we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our properties, including those held by joint ventures, we will be unable to meet operating and other expenses, including debt
service, lease payments, capital expenditures and tenant improvements, and to make distributions from our joint ventures and then, in turn, to our stockholders. 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 We develop and expand properties, and this activity is subject to various risks  


        Although we have significantly reduced our development and expansion activities, certain development and expansion projects will be
undertaken. In connection with any development or expansion, we will be subject to various risks, including the following: 



•We may abandon development or expansion activities already under way, which may result in additional cost recognition  
•Construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates or available financing, possibly making the project
unfeasible or unprofitable   
•We may not be able to obtain zoning, occupancy or other required governmental permits and authorizations  
•Occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may not meet projections and, therefore, the project may not be
profitable   
•We may not be able to obtain Anchor, mortgage lender and property partner approvals, if applicable, for expansion or
redevelopment activities 


        If
a development project is unsuccessful, our investment in the project may not be fully recoverable from future operations or sale. 

 We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws  

        Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries
and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator
knew of, or was responsible for, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to
sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing
materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for some of our redevelopments, and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos
fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and removal of underground storage tanks. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of our properties, we could
be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these regulated substances or tanks or related claims. 

        Our
properties have been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times. However, the identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the extent or
known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup requirements could result in significant costs to us. 


 We are in a competitive business  

        There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our properties in attracting retailers to lease space. Our Chapter 11
Cases may impair the desirability and competitiveness of our shopping facilities. In addition, retailers at our properties face continued competition from retailers at other regional shopping centers,
including outlet malls and other discount shopping centers, discount shopping clubs, catalog companies, internet sales and telemarketing. Competition of this type could adversely affect our revenues
and cash available for repayment of our debt and distribution to our stockholders. 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        We
compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include other REITs, investment banking firms and
private institutional investors. 


 Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters  

        A number of our properties are located in areas which are subject to natural disasters. For example, two of our properties, located in
the New Orleans area, suffered major hurricane and/or vandalism damage in 2005. It is uncertain as to whether the New Orleans area will recover to its prior economic strength. Certain of our
properties are located in California or in other areas with higher risk of earthquakes. In addition, many of our properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be affected by any
future increases in sea levels or in the frequency or severity of hurricanes and tropical storms, whether such increases are caused by global climate changes or other factors. 


 Possible terrorist activity or other acts of violence could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations  

        Future terrorist attacks in the United States, and other acts of violence, including terrorism or war, might result in declining
economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. A
decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re–lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities or violence also could
directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower, or cost more, which could
increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that our tenants are affected by future attacks, their businesses similarly could
be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. These acts might erode business and consumer confidence and spending, and might result in
increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our new or
redeveloped properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. 


 Some potential losses are not insured  

        We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our
properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims,
which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the
anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. 

 Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations  

        Should inflation increase in the future, we may experience any or all of the following: 



•Decreasing tenant sales as a result of decreased consumer spending which could result in lower Overage Rent  
•Difficulty in replacing or renewing expiring leases with new leases at higher base and/or Overage Rent  
•An inability to receive reimbursement from our tenants for their share of certain operating expenses, including common
area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance 

18




 


<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Inflation
also poses a potential threat to us due to the probability of future increases in interest rates. Such increases would adversely impact us due to our outstanding
variable-rate debt as well as result in higher interest rates on new fixed-rate debt. 

 We have certain ownership interests outside the United States which may increase in relative significance over time  

        We hold interests in joint venture properties in Brazil, Turkey and Costa Rica. International development and ownership activities
carry additional risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties and operations. These additional risks include: 



•Difficulties in managing international operations   
•Changes in foreign political environments, regionally, nationally, and locally   
•Challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes and
litigation   
•Differing lending practices   
•Differences in cultures   
•Adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies   
•Changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations   
•Obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash 


        Although
our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented less than approximately one percent of the NOI of all
of our properties in 2009), to the extent that we expand our international activities, these additional risks could increase in significance and adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition. 

 ORGANIZATIONAL RISKS  

 Payments by our direct and indirect subsidiaries of dividends and distributions to us may be adversely affected by prior payments to these subsidiaries' creditors and
preferred security holders  

        Substantially all of our assets are owned through our general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, including The Rouse
Company LP ("TRCLP"). The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries, including subsidiary partnerships, limited liability companies and
corporations that have elected to be taxed as REITs. The Operating Partnership therefore derives substantially all of its cash flow from cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and we, in turn,
derive substantially all of our cash flow from cash distributions to us by the Operating Partnership. The creditors and preferred security holders, if any, of each of our direct and indirect
subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before that subsidiary may make distributions to us. Thus, the Operating Partnership's ability to
make distributions to its partners, including us, depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy obligations to their creditors and preferred security holders, if any, and then to make
distributions to the Operating Partnership. Similarly, our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock depends on the Operating Partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to
its creditors and preferred security holders and then to make distributions to us. 

        In
addition, we will have the right to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency of
the subsidiary only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if any, of the subsidiary are satisfied. Our common stockholders, in turn, will have
the right to participate in any 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



distribution
of our assets upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency of us only after the claims of our creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if any, are
satisfied. 

 We share control of some of our properties with other investors and may have conflicts of interest with those investors  

        While we generally make all operating decisions for the Unconsolidated Properties, we are required to make other decisions with the
other investors who have interests in the relevant property or properties. For example, the approval of certain of the other investors is required with respect to operating budgets and refinancing,
encumbering, expanding or selling any of these properties, as well as to bankruptcy decisions related to the Unconsolidated Properties and related joint ventures. We might not have the same interests
as the other investors in relation to these transactions. Accordingly, we might not be able to favorably resolve any of these issues, or we might have to provide financial or other inducement to the
other investors to obtain a favorable resolution. 

        In
addition, various restrictive provisions and rights apply to sales or transfers of interests in our jointly owned properties. These may work to our disadvantage because, among other
things, we might be required to make decisions about buying or selling interests in a property or properties at a time that is disadvantageous to us. 

 Bankruptcy of joint venture partners could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the jointly owned retail properties  


        The bankruptcy of one of the other investors in any of our jointly owned shopping centers could materially and adversely affect the
relevant property or properties. Under the bankruptcy laws, we would be precluded from taking some actions affecting the estate of the other investor without prior approval of the bankruptcy court,
which would, in most cases, entail prior notice to other parties and a hearing in the bankruptcy court. At a minimum, the requirement to obtain court approval may delay the actions we would or might
want to take. If the relevant joint venture through which we have invested in a property has incurred recourse obligations, the discharge in bankruptcy of one of the other investors might result in
our ultimate liability for a greater portion of those obligations than we would otherwise bear. 

 We are impacted by tax-related obligations to some of our partners  

        We own properties through partnerships which have arrangements in place that protect the deferred tax situation of our existing third
party limited partners. Violation of these arrangements could impose costs on us. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to decisions such as financing, encumbering, expanding or selling these
properties. 

        Several
of our joint venture partners are tax-exempt. As such, they are taxable to the extent of their share of unrelated business taxable income generated from these
properties. As the managing partner in these joint ventures, we have obligations to avoid the creation of unrelated business taxable income at these properties. As a result, we may be restricted with
respect to decisions such as financing and revenue generation with respect to these properties. 

 We may not maintain our status as a REIT  

        One of the requirements of the Code for a REIT generally is that it distribute or pay tax on 100% of its capital gains and distribute
at least 90% of its ordinary taxable income to its stockholders. We may not have sufficient liquidity to meet these distribution requirements. 

20






<A
NAME="page_dg45601_1_21"> 









































Table of Contents 

        If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to stockholders in
computing our taxable income and federal income tax. The corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, would apply to our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As
a result, the amount available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. In addition, unless we were
entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. 

 An ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us  

         The ownership limit.    Generally, for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of the
outstanding shares
of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of our taxable year. The Code defines "individuals" for purposes of the
requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. In general, under our current certificate of incorporation, no person other than Martin
Bucksbaum (deceased), Matthew Bucksbaum, their families and related trusts and entities, including M.B. Capital Partners III, may own more than 7.5% of the value of our outstanding capital stock.
However, our certificate of incorporation also permits our company to exempt a person from the 7.5% ownership limit upon the satisfaction of certain conditions which are described in our certificate
of incorporation. 

        Selected provisions of our charter documents.    Our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors. Directors of each class
are chosen
for three-year staggered terms. Staggered terms of directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of our company, even though a tender offer or
change in control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our charter authorizes the board of directors: 



•To cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock  
•To classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred stock   
•To set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified stock that we issue 


         Stockholder rights plan.    We have a stockholder rights plan which will impact a potential acquirer unless the acquirer negotiates with
our board of
directors and the board of directors approves the transaction. 


        Selected provisions of Delaware law.    We are a Delaware corporation, and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law applies
to us. In
general, Section 203 prevents an "interested stockholder," as defined in the next sentence, from engaging in a "business combination," as defined in the statute, with us for three years
following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless one or more of the following occurs: 



•Before that person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved the transaction in which the
interested stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the business combination   
•Upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the
interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the
outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers of the Company and by employee 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents




stock
plans that do not provide employees with the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer  



•Following the transaction in which that person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by
our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested
stockholder 


        The
statute defines "interested stockholder" to mean generally any person that is the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or is an affiliate or associate of us and was
the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within the three-year period immediately before the date of determination. 

        Each
item discussed above may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our Company, even if a proposed transaction is at a premium over the then current market price for our common
stock. Further, these provisions may apply in instances where some stockholders consider a transaction beneficial to them. As a result, our stock price may be negatively affected by these provisions. 

 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  

        We may make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and in other reports which we file with the SEC or with the Bankruptcy
Court. In addition, our senior management might make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. 


        Forward-looking
statements include: 



•Descriptions of plans or objectives of our management for plans of reorganization, debt repayment or restructuring,
modification, extension; strategic alternatives, including capital raises and asset sales; and future operations   
•Projections of our revenues, income, earnings per share, Funds From Operations ("FFO" as defined below), capital
expenditures, income tax and other contingent liabilities, dividends, leverage, capital structure or other financial items   
•Forecasts of our future economic performance   
•Descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing 


        In
this Annual Report, for example, we make forward-looking statements discussing our expectations about: 



•The resolution of our remaining Chapter 11 cases, including the TopCo Debtors, the proposed and already confirmed
plans of reorganization of our Debtors and liquidity   
•Capital required for the TopCo Debtors emergence from bankruptcy   
•Sales of properties   
•Expected sales of our Master Planned Communities segment   
•Future development, management and leasing fees   
•Distributions pursuant to the Contingent Stock Agreement   
•Future cash needed to meet federal income tax requirements   
•Future development spending 


        Forward-looking
statements discuss matters that are not historical facts. Because they discuss future events or conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such as
"anticipate," 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg45601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



"believe,"
"estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "target," "can," "could," "may," "should," "will," "would" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements should not be unduly relied
upon. They give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we might not update them to reflect changes that occur
after the date they are made. 

        There
are several factors, many beyond our control, which could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Factors such as our bankruptcy proceedings, credit, market,
operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks are described elsewhere in this Annual Report. Any factor described in this Annual Report could by itself, or together with one or more other
factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. There are also other factors that we have not described in this Annual Report that could cause results to differ
from our expectations.  

<A
NAME="dg45601_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B