ITEM 1A   Risk Factors

Various risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere
in this report or our other filings with the SEC could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results
of operations. It is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. 



5




Table of Contents

Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations in the future. Therefore, the
following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.

The food categories in which we participate are very competitive, and if we are not
able to compete effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

The food categories in which we participate are very competitive. Our principal competitors in these
categories all have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. In most product categories, we compete not only with
other widely advertised branded products, but also with generic and private label products that are generally sold at lower
prices. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and
loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If our
large competitors were to decrease their pricing or were to increase their promotional spending, we could choose to do the same,
which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. If we did not do the same, our revenues and market share could be
adversely affected. Our market share and revenue growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing
innovative products in response to changing consumer demands or by new product introductions of our competitors. If we are unable
to build and sustain brand equity by offering recognizably superior product quality, we may be unable to maintain premium pricing
over generic and private label products.

We may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail
environment.

The 5 largest customers in our U.S. Retail segment accounted for 54 percent of its fiscal 2007 net
sales, the 5 largest customers in our International segment accounted for 41 percent of its net sales for fiscal 2007, and the 5
largest customers in our Bakeries and Foodservice segment accounted for 40 percent of its net sales for fiscal 2007. The loss of
any large customer for an extended length of time could adversely affect our sales and profits. There has been significant
worldwide consolidation in the grocery industry in recent years and we believe that this trend is likely to continue. As the
retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass market retailers become larger, our large retail customers may seek to use
their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. If
we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation, and category leadership positions to respond to these
demands, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted.

Price changes for the commodities we depend on for raw materials, packaging, and energy
may adversely affect our profitability.

The principal raw materials that we use are grains (wheat, oats, and corn), sugar, dairy products,
vegetables, fruits, meats, vegetable oils, and other agricultural products. We also use substantial quantities of carton board,
corrugated and plastic packaging materials, operating supplies, and energy. These items are largely commodities that experience
price volatility caused by external conditions such as weather and product scarcity, commodity market fluctuations, currency
fluctuations, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw
material, packaging, and energy costs. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or increase our
prices as a result of consumer sensitivity to pricing or otherwise, we may experience reduced margins and profitability. We do not
fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and the hedging procedures that we do use may not always work as we intend.

If we are not efficient in our production, our profitability could suffer as a result
of the highly competitive environment in which we operate.

Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to be efficient in the production
and manufacture of our products in highly competitive markets. Our ability to gain additional efficiencies may become more
difficult over time as we take advantage of existing opportunities. Our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or by
eliminating redundant costs resulting from acquisitions could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive
position. Further, many productivity initiatives involve complex reorganization of manufacturing facilities and production lines.
Such manufacturing realignment may result in the interruption of production which may negatively impact product volume and
margins.

Disruption of our supply chain could adversely affect our business.

Our ability to make, move, and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to raw
material supplies or our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic,
strikes, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate
the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a 


6




Table of Contents

product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of
operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.

We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which may
result in decreased demand for our products.

Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and
to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time and can be affected by a number
of different trends. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes and trends, or to introduce new and improved
products on a timely basis, could result in reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our revenues and
profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of
ingredients such as trans fats, sugar, processed wheat, or other product ingredients or attributes.

We may be unable to grow our market share or add products that are in faster growing
and more profitable categories.

The food industry’s growth potential is constrained by population growth. Our success depends in
part on our ability to grow our business faster than populations are growing in the markets that we serve. One way to achieve that
growth is to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster growing and more profitable categories. Our future
results will also depend on our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. If we do not succeed in
developing innovative products for new and existing categories, our growth may slow, which could adversely affect our
profitability.

Customer demand for our products may be limited in future periods as a result of
increased purchases in response to promotional activity.

Our unit volume in the last week of each quarter can be higher than the average for the preceding weeks
of the quarter in certain circumstances. In comparison to the average daily shipments in the first 12 weeks of a quarter, the
final week of each quarter may have as much as two to four days’ worth of incremental shipments (based on a five-day week),
reflecting increased promotional activity at the end of the quarter. This increased activity includes promotions to assure that
our customers have sufficient inventory on hand to support major marketing events or increased seasonal demand early in the next
quarter, as well as promotions intended to help achieve interim unit volume targets. If, due to quarter-end promotions or other
reasons, our customers purchase more product in any reporting period than end-consumer demand will require in future periods, our
sales level in future reporting periods could be adversely affected.

Economic downturns could cause consumers to shift their food purchases from our higher
priced premium products to lower priced items, which could adversely affect our results of operations.

The willingness of consumers to purchase premium branded food products depends in part on local economic
conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more generic, private label, and other economy brands.
In those circumstances, we could experience a reduction in sales of higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower
margin offerings. In addition, as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, we may be unable to raise our prices due to
increased consumer sensitivity to pricing. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

Volatility in the market value of derivatives we use to hedge exposures to fluctuations
in commodity prices will cause volatility in our gross margins and net earnings.

We utilize derivatives to hedge price risk for various raw materials and energy input costs, including
grains (wheat, oats, and corn), oils (principally soybean), non-fat dry milk, natural gas, and diesel fuel. Application of hedge
accounting under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,” as amended, (SFAS 133) requires significant resources, record keeping, and analytical systems. As a
result of the rising compliance costs and the complexity associated with the application of hedge accounting, effective as of the
beginning of fiscal 2008 we will no longer be documenting our commodity derivatives as hedges of our commodity price risk.
Accordingly, the changes in the values of these derivatives will be recorded in earnings currently, resulting in volatility in
both gross margin and net earnings. These gains and losses will be reported in cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of
Earnings and in unallocated corporate expenses in our segment operating results. This volatility could cause results reported in
any period to differ from our expectations. Our net earnings over the life of the derivative contracts remain unchanged.

Our international operations are subject to political and economic risks.

In fiscal 2007, 17 percent of our consolidated net sales were generated outside of the United States. We
are accordingly 


7




Table of Contents

subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally, any of which could
significantly harm our business. These risks include:



•
political and economic instability;


•
exchange controls and currency exchange rates;


•
foreign tax treaties and policies; and


•
restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries.




    Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is subject to
fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations could cause material variations in our results of operations. Our
principal exposures are to the Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Euro, and Mexican peso. From time to
time, we enter into agreements that are intended to reduce the effects of our exposure to currency fluctuations, but these
agreements may not be effective in significantly reducing our exposure.

Concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause consumers to avoid
certain food products or ingredients.

We could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and
quality of certain food products or ingredients. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may
discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions.

If our food products become adulterated or misbranded, we might need to recall those
items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured.

We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. We may also be
liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due
to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period
of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product recall or
product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our
food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands.

New regulations or regulatory-based claims could adversely affect our business.

Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign
agencies. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing
business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. In addition, we advertise our
products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and
regulations.

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could limit financing and other
options and in some cases adversely affect our ability to pay dividends.

As of May 27, 2007, we had total debt and minority interests of $7.3 billion. The agreements under
which we have issued indebtedness do not prevent us from incurring additional unsecured indebtedness in the future. Our level of
indebtedness may limit our:




•
ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes,
particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and


•
flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general
economic conditions.




    There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt
instruments and minority interests. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other
unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity, and our ability to obtain additional or
alternative financing may also be adversely affected.

    If our subsidiary General Mills Cereals, LLC (GMC) fails to make required
distributions to the holders of its Series B-1 preferred membership interests, we will be restricted from paying any dividends
(other than dividends in the form of shares of common stock) or other distributions on shares of our common stock and may not
repurchase shares of our common stock until such distributions are paid.

    Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt and other
obligations will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and
to financial, business, and other factors beyond our control.

Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors or changes in
our employee base could substantially increase our defined benefit pension, other postretirement, and postemployment benefit
costs.

We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the United States, Canada, and various
foreign locations, including defined benefit pension, retiree health and welfare,


8



Table of Contents


severance, and other postemployment benefit plans. Our major defined benefit pension plans are funded
with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in interest rates,
mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the
funded status of our defined benefit pension, other postretirement, and postemployment benefit plans and cause volatility in the
net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. Although the aggregate fair value of our defined benefit
pension, other postretirement, and postemployment benefit plan assets exceeded the aggregate defined benefit pension, other
postretirement, and postemployment benefit obligations as of May 27, 2007, a significant increase in our obligations or future
funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations.

Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail
to perform adequately.

The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our
information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment,
and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our
business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our
business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or
interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches, and
viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business.

If other potentially responsible parties (PRPs) are unable to contribute to remediation
costs at certain contaminated sites, our costs for remediation could be material.

We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and health and safety laws
and regulations. Under certain of these laws, namely the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and
its state counterparts, liability for investigation and remediation of hazardous substance contamination at currently or formerly
owned or operated facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites is joint and several. We currently are involved in active
remediation efforts at certain sites where we have been named a PRP. If other PRPs at these sites are unable to contribute to
remediation costs, we could be held responsible for all or their portion of the remediation costs, and those costs could be
material. We cannot assure that our costs in relation to these environmental matters or compliance with environmental laws in
general will not exceed our reserves or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively affect our
consolidated results of operations and net worth.

Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of acquired companies and the related fair
values of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not subject to amortization and is tested for impairment annually and whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Impairment testing is performed for each of our reporting
units. We compare the carrying value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the unit. Carrying value is
based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of that reporting unit, which often requires allocation of
shared or corporate items among reporting units. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we revalue all
of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, excluding goodwill, to determine if the fair value of the net assets is
greater than the net assets including goodwill. If the fair value of the net assets is less than the net assets including
goodwill, impairment has occurred. Our estimates of fair value are determined based on a discounted cash flow model. Growth rates
for sales and profits are determined using inputs from our annual long-range planning process. We also make estimates of discount
rates, perpetuity growth assumptions, market comparables, and other factors. We periodically engage third-party valuation
consultants to assist in this process. All our reporting units have fair values in excess of their carrying values by at least 20
percent.

    As of May 27, 2007, we had $6.8 billion of goodwill. While we currently believe
that the fair value of goodwill exceeds its carrying value, materially different assumptions regarding future performance of our
businesses could result in significant impairment losses.

An impairment in the carrying value of, or a change in the useful life of, our
indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.

We evaluate the useful lives of our intangible assets, primarily intangible assets associated with the
Pillsbury, Totino’s, Progresso, Green Giant, Old El Paso, and Häagen-Dazs
brands to determine if they are finite or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments
and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability
of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing 


9



Table of Contents


regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required
maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets.

    Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are also tested for impairment annually
and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Our estimate of the
fair value of the brands is based on a discounted cash flow model using inputs including: projected revenues from our annual
long-range plan; assumed royalty rates which could be payable if we did not own the brands; and a discount rate. We periodically
engage third-party valuation consultants to assist in this process.

    As of May 27, 2007, we had $3.7 billion of indefinite-lived intangible
assets. While we currently believe that the fair value of each indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its carrying value and
that those intangibles so classified will contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, materially different assumptions regarding
future performance of our businesses could result in significant impairment losses and amortization expense.

Resolution of uncertain income tax matters could adversely affect our results of
operations or cash flows from operations.

Our consolidated effective income tax rate is influenced by tax planning opportunities available to us
in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Management judgment is involved in determining our effective tax rate and in
evaluating the ultimate resolution of any uncertain tax positions. We are periodically under examination or engaged in a tax
controversy. We establish reserves in a variety of taxing jurisdictions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are
supportable, we believe that certain positions may be challenged and may need to be revised. We adjust these reserves in light of
changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit. Our effective income tax rate includes the impact of
reserve provisions and changes to those reserves. We also provide interest on these reserves at the appropriate statutory interest
rate. These interest charges are also included in our effective tax rate. As of May 27, 2007, our income tax and related interest
reserves recorded in other current liabilities were slightly more than $700 million. Reserve adjustments for individual issues
have generally not exceeded 1 percent of earnings before income taxes and after-tax earnings from joint ventures annually.
Nevertheless, the accumulation of individually insignificant discrete adjustments throughout a particular year has historically
impacted our consolidated effective income tax rate by up to 80 basis points.

    The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) recently concluded field examinations for our
2002 and 2003 federal tax years. These examinations included review of our determinations of cost basis, capital losses, and the
depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets arising from our acquisition of Pillsbury and the sale of
minority interests in our GMC subsidiary. The IRS has proposed adjustments related to a majority of the tax benefits associated
with these items. We believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously defend our positions. Our potential liability
for this matter is significant and, notwithstanding our reserves against this potential liability, an unfavorable resolution could
have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows from operations.

ITEM 1B