ITEM 1A
     
    Risk Factors





Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks described below could
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

The food categories in which we participate are very competitive, and if we are not able to compete
effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected.


The food categories in which we participate are very competitive. Our principal competitors in
these categories all have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. In most product
categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with
generic and private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. Competition in our
product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and
loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy
consumer preferences. If our large competitors were to decrease their pricing or were to increase
their promotional spending, we could choose to do the same, which could adversely affect our
margins and profitability. If we did not do the same, our revenues and market share could be
adversely affected. Our market share and revenue growth could also be adversely impacted if we are
not successful in introducing innovative products in response to changing consumer demands or by
new product introductions of our competitors. If we are unable to build and sustain brand equity by
offering recognizably superior product quality, we may be unable to maintain premium pricing over
generic and private label products.


We may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment.


The five largest customers in our U.S. Retail segment accounted for 54 percent of its net sales for
fiscal 2009, the five largest customers in our International segment accounted for 28 percent of
its net sales for fiscal 2009, and the five largest customers in our Bakeries and Foodservice
segment accounted for 41 percent of its net sales for fiscal 2009. The loss of any large customer
for an extended length of time could adversely affect our sales and
profits. In addition, large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability
through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased reliance on their own brand name products,
increased emphasis on generic and other economy brands, and increased promotional programs. If we
are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation, knowledge of consumers’
needs, and category leadership positions to respond to these demands, our profitability or volume
growth could be negatively impacted.


Price changes for the commodities we depend on for raw materials, packaging, and energy may
adversely affect our profitability.

The principal raw materials that we use are commodities that experience price volatility caused by
external conditions such as weather and product scarcity, limited sources of supply, commodity
market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, and changes in governmental agricultural and energy
programs. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material, packaging,
and energy costs. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or
increase our prices, we may experience reduced margins and profitability. We do not fully hedge
against changes in commodity prices, and the risk management procedures that we do use may not
always work as we intend.

7



Table of Contents


Volatility in the market value of derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in
commodity prices will cause volatility in our gross margins and net earnings.


We utilize derivatives to manage price risk for some of our principal ingredient and energy costs,
including grains (oats, wheat, and corn), oils (principally soybean), non-fat dry milk, natural
gas, and diesel fuel. Changes in the values of these derivatives are recorded in earnings
currently, resulting in volatility in both gross margin and net earnings. These gains and losses
are reported in cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings and in unallocated
corporate items in our segment operating results until we utilize the underlying input in our
manufacturing process, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment operating
profit. We also record our grain inventories at fair value. We may experience volatile earnings as
a result of these accounting treatments.


If we are not efficient in our production, our profitability could suffer as a result of the highly
competitive environment in which we operate.


Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to be efficient in the
production and manufacture of our products in highly competitive markets. Gaining additional
efficiencies may become more difficult over time. Our failure to reduce costs through productivity
gains or by eliminating redundant costs resulting from acquisitions could adversely affect our
profitability and weaken our competitive position. Many productivity initiatives involve complex
reorganization of manufacturing facilities and production lines. Such manufacturing realignment may
result in the interruption of production, which may negatively impact product volume and margins.


Disruption of our supply chain could adversely affect our business.


Our ability to make, move, and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to
raw material supplies or our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural
disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, import restrictions, or other factors could impair
our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the
likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur,
particularly when a product is sourced from a single supplier or location, could adversely affect
our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our
supply chain.


Concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause consumers to avoid certain food
products or ingredients.


We could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety
and quality of certain food products or ingredients. Adverse publicity about these types of
concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause
production and delivery disruptions.


If our food products become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled, we might need to recall those
items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured.


We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled. A
widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the
destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period
of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A
significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage
to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands.


We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which may result in
decreased demand for our products.


Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers
and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to
time and can be affected by a number of different trends. Our failure to anticipate, identify or
react to these changes and trends, or to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis,
could result in reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our revenues and
profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer



8




Table of Contents


concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as trans fats, sugar, processed wheat, or
other product ingredients or attributes.


We may be unable to grow our market share or add products that are in faster growing and more
profitable categories.


The food industry’s growth potential is constrained by population growth. Our success depends in
part on our ability to grow our business faster than populations are growing in the markets that we
serve. One way to achieve that growth is to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products
in faster growing and more profitable categories. Our future results will also depend on our
ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. If we do not succeed in
developing innovative products for new and existing categories, our growth may slow, which could
adversely affect our profitability.


Customer demand for our products may be limited in future periods as a result of increased
purchases in response to promotional activity.


Our unit volume in the last week of each quarter can be higher than the average for the preceding
weeks of the quarter in certain circumstances. In comparison to the average daily shipments in the
first 12 weeks of a quarter, the final week of each quarter may have as much as four days’ worth of
incremental shipments (based on a five-day week), reflecting increased promotional activity at the
end of the quarter. This increased activity includes promotions to assure that our customers have
sufficient inventory on hand to support major marketing events or increased seasonal demand early
in the next quarter, as well as promotions intended to help achieve interim unit volume targets.
If, due to quarter-end promotions or other reasons, our customers purchase more product in any
reporting period than end-consumer demand will require in future periods, our sales level in future
reporting periods could be adversely affected.


Economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products.


The willingness of consumers to purchase our products depends in part on local economic conditions.
In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may purchase more generic, private label, and other
economy brands and may forego certain purchases altogether. In those circumstances, we could
experience a reduction in sales of higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower
margin offerings. In addition, as a result of economic conditions or competitive actions, we may be
unable to raise our prices sufficiently to protect margins. Consumers may also reduce the amount of
food that they consume away from home at customers that purchase products from our Bakeries and
Foodservice segment. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

Our international operations are subject to political and economic risks.

In fiscal 2009, 18 percent of our consolidated net sales were generated outside of the United
States. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally,
any of which could significantly harm our business. These risks include:




    •
     
    political and economic instability;







    •
     
    exchange controls and currency exchange rates;







    •
     
    foreign tax treaties and policies; and







    •
     
    restriction on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, including potentially
negative tax consequences.




Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is subject to fluctuations in currency
exchange rates. These fluctuations could cause material variations in our results of operations.
Our principal exposures are to the Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar,
Chinese renminbi, euro, Japanese yen, and Mexican peso. From time to time, we enter into agreements
that are intended to reduce the effects of our exposure to currency fluctuations, but these
agreements may not be effective in significantly reducing our exposure.

9



Table of Contents


New regulations or regulatory-based claims could adversely affect our business.


Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local, and
foreign agencies. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on
us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of
operations to be adversely affected. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target
of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws
and regulations and of new laws or regulations restricting our right to advertise products.


We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could limit financing and other options and in
some cases adversely affect our ability to pay dividends.


As of May 31, 2009, we had total debt and minority interests of $7.3 billion. The agreements under
which we have issued indebtedness do not prevent us from incurring additional unsecured
indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness may limit our:


• ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or general
corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating
organizations were revised downward; and


• flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and may make us more vulnerable
to a downturn in general economic conditions.


There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt instruments and minority
interests. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other
unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity and our ability
to obtain additional or alternative financing may also be adversely affected.


Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt and other obligations will
depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic
conditions and to financial, business, and other factors beyond our control.


Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs
of borrowing, and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers.


The global capital and credit markets, including commercial paper markets, have recently
experienced increased volatility and disruption, making it more difficult for companies to access
those markets. We depend on stable, liquid, and well-functioning capital and credit markets to fund
our operations. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, financial assets, access to
capital and credit markets, and revolving-credit agreements will permit us to meet our financing
needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility
and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our
costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers
experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the
general economy.


Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors or changes in our employee
base could substantially increase our defined benefit pension, other postretirement, and
postemployment benefit costs.


We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the United States, Canada, and
various foreign locations, including defined benefit pension, retiree health and welfare,
severance, directors’ life, and other postemployment plans. Our major defined benefit pension plans
are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other
investments. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates,
investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined
benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements
of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a
negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations.



10




Table of Contents


Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform
adequately.


The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on
our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply
chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information
technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in
transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our
business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may
be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire,
natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches, and viruses. Any such damage or
interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business.


If other potentially responsible parties (PRPs) are unable to contribute to remediation costs at
certain contaminated sites, our costs for remediation could be material.


We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and health and safety
laws and regulations. Under certain of these laws, namely the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act and its state counterparts, liability for investigation and
remediation of hazardous substance contamination at currently or formerly owned or operated
facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites is joint and several. We currently are involved
in active remediation efforts at certain sites where we have been named a PRP. If other PRPs at
these sites are unable to contribute to remediation costs, we could be held responsible for their
portion of the remediation costs, and those costs could be material. We cannot assure that our
costs in relation to these environmental matters or compliance with environmental laws in general
will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and
results of operations.


A change in the assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses or a different
weighted-average cost of capital used to value our reporting units or our indefinite-lived
intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.


Goodwill for each of our reporting units is tested for impairment annually and whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. We compare the carrying value
of the net assets of a reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the unit. If the
fair value of the net assets of the reporting unit is less than the net assets including goodwill,
impairment has occurred. Our estimates of fair value are determined based on a discounted cash flow
model. Growth rates for sales and profits are determined using inputs from our annual long-range
planning process. We also make estimates of discount rates, perpetuity growth assumptions, market
comparables, and other factors. While we currently believe that our goodwill is not impaired,
different assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in
significant impairment losses.


We evaluate the useful lives of our intangible assets, primarily intangible assets associated with
the Pillsbury, Totino’s, Progresso, Green Giant, Old El Paso, and Häagen-Dazs brands, to determine
if they are finite or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires
significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand,
competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, known technological
advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and
expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the
expected lives of other related groups of assets.


Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are also tested for impairment annually and whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Our estimate
of the fair value of the brands is based on a discounted cash flow model using inputs including:
projected revenues from our annual long-range plan; assumed royalty rates which could be payable if
we did not own the brands; and a discount rate.


As of May 31, 2009, we had $10.4 billion of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. While
we currently believe that the fair value of each intangible exceeds its carrying value and that
those intangibles so classified will contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, materially
different assumptions regarding future performance of our businesses or a different
weighted-average cost of capital could result in significant impairment losses and amortization
expense.



11




Table of Contents


Resolution of uncertain income tax matters and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our
results of operations or cash flows from operations.


We are subject to income tax in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in
statutory income tax rates in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could reduce our
after-tax income and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.


Our consolidated effective income tax rate is influenced by tax planning opportunities available to
us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Management judgment is involved in determining
our effective tax rate and in evaluating the ultimate resolution of any uncertain tax positions. We
are periodically under examination or engaged in a tax controversy. We establish liabilities in a
variety of taxing jurisdictions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are
supportable, we believe that certain positions may be challenged and may need to be revised. We
adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a
tax audit, and changes in these liabilities affect our effective income tax rate. We also record
interest on these liabilities at the appropriate statutory interest rate. These interest charges
are also included in our effective tax rate, but are not included in our liabilities for uncertain
tax positions disclosed elsewhere in this report. Adjustments to these liabilities for individual
issues have generally not exceeded 1 percent of earnings before income taxes and after-tax earnings
from joint ventures annually.


The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has concluded its field examinations of our 2002-2006 federal
tax years. With limited exceptions, all matters raised in the field examinations have been
resolved. The IRS has challenged the amount of capital loss and depreciation and amortization we
reported as a result of our sale of minority interests in our General Mills Cereals, LLC (GMC)
subsidiary. The IRS has proposed adjustments that effectively eliminate most of the tax benefits
associated with this transaction. We believe we have meritorious defenses and are vigorously
defending our positions. We have appealed the results of the IRS field examination to the IRS
Appeals Division. Our potential liability for this matter is significant. We have determined that a
portion of this matter should be included as a component of our total liabilities for uncertain tax
positions as disclosed in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of
this report.









    ITEM 1B