Item 1A.  Risk Factors
- ----------------------

Set forth below are some of the  principal  risks and  uncertainties  that could
cause our actual business results to differ materially from any  forward-looking
statements contained in this Report. Future results could be materially affected
by general industry and market conditions,  changes in laws or accounting rules,
general economic and political conditions, including a global economic slowdown,
fluctuation of interest rates or currency exchange rates,  terrorism,  political
unrest  or  international  conflicts,  political  instability  or  major  health
concerns,   natural   disasters  or  other   disruptions  of  expected  business
conditions.  These  risk  factors  should  be  considered  in  addition  to  our
cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Annual Report.

Our  sales  could be  negatively  impacted  if one or more of our key  customers
substantially reduce orders for our products

     Corning's  ten  largest  customers  account  for  about  50% of our  sales.
However,  no  individual  customer  accounts  for more than 10% of  consolidated
sales.

     A relatively  small number of customers  accounted for a high percentage of
net sales in each of our reportable operating segments. For 2005, five customers
of the Display Technologies  segment,  each of which accounted for more than 10%
of  segment  net  sales,  accounted  for  75% of  total  segment  sales.  In the
Telecommunications segment, two customers, each of which accounted for more than
10% of this  segment's  net sales,  accounted  for 29% of total segment sales in
2005. In the Environmental  Technologies segment, three customers, each of which
accounted for more than 10% of segment sales,  represented  76% of total segment
sales for 2005. In the Life Sciences segment, one distributor  accounted for 53%
of this segment's sales in 2005.

     Samsung  Corning  Precision's  sales  were also  concentrated,  with  three
customers accounting for 98% of sales in 2005.

     Although the sale of LCD glass  substrates has increased in 2005, there can
be no assurance that this positive  trend will  continue.  Our customers are LCD
panel and color filter makers.  As they switch to larger size glass, the pace of
their orders may be uneven while they adjust their  manufacturing  processes and
facilities.  Additionally,  consumer  preferences for panels of differing sizes,
price, or other factors,  may lead to pauses in market growth from time to time.
Our  customers  may not be able to  maintain  profitable  operations  or  access
sufficient  capital to fund  ongoing and future  planned  expansions,  which may
limit their pace of orders to us. Emerging  technologies could replace our glass
substrates for certain applications resulting in a decline in demand for our LCD
products.

     Our  Telecommunications  segment  customers'  purchases of our products are
affected  by  their  capital  expansion  plans,   general  market  and  economic
uncertainty and regulatory  changes,  including  broadband policy.  Sales in the
Telecommunications  segment are expected to be impacted by Verizon Communication
Inc. (Verizon) fiber-to-the-premises deployments. Our sales will be dependent on
Verizon's  planned targets for homes passed and connected.  Changes in Verizon's
deployment plan could adversely affect future sales.





     In the Environmental  Technologies segment,  sales of our ceramic substrate
and filter  products for automotive and diesel  emissions and pollution  control
are expected to fluctuate with vehicle production.  Changes in governmental laws
and regulations for air quality and emission  controls may also influence future
sales.  Sales in our Environmental  Technologies  segment are to four catalyzers
and emission system component manufacturers. Our customers sell these systems to
automotive original equipment manufacturers and diesel engine manufacturers.

     Sales in our Life  Science  segment  were  historically  through  two large
distributors to government entities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
hospitals,  universities and other research facilities.  During 2005, we did not
renew the contract with one large distributor and transitioned the sales through
this  distributor to our remaining  primary  distributor  and other existing and
developing channels.  This change has and may continue to adversely impact sales
volumes in the short term. In 2005, our remaining primary distributor  accounted
for 53% of total segment sales.

If the  markets for our  products  do not  develop and expand as we  anticipate,
demand for our products may decline,  which would negatively  impact our results
of operations and financial performance

     The  markets  for  our  products  are  characterized  by  rapidly  changing
technologies, evolving industry or government standards and frequent new product
introductions.  Our success is expected to depend,  in substantial  part, on the
successful  introduction of new products,  or upgrades of current products,  and
our ability to compete with new  technologies  and products of other  suppliers.
The  following  factors  related to our products and markets,  if not  achieved,
could have an adverse impact on our results of operations:

     .    our ability to introduce leading products such as glass substrates for
          liquid  crystal  displays,  optical  fiber and cable and  hardware and
          equipment,  and  environmental  substrate  products  that can  command
          competitive prices in the marketplace;
     .    our ability to achieve a favorable sales mix of large generation sizes
          of liquid crystal display glass;
     .    our  ability  to  develop  new  products  in  response  to  government
          regulations  and laws,  particularly  diesel  filter  products  in the
          Environmental Technologies segment;
     .    continued strong demand for notebook computers and LCD monitors;
     .    the rate of growth in purchases of LCD  televisions  to replace  other
          technologies; and
     .    the rate of growth  of the  fiber-to-the-premises  build-out  in North
          America.

We face pricing pressures in each of our leading businesses that could adversely
affect our results of operations and financial performance

     We face pricing  pressure in each of our leading  businesses as a result of
intense competition, emerging new technologies, or over-capacity.  While we will
work toward reducing our costs to offset pricing  pressures,  we may not be able
to achieve proportionate reductions in costs. As a result of overcapacity in the
Telecommunications  segment,  we anticipate pricing pressures will continue into
2006  and  beyond.  Increased  pricing  pressure  may  develop  in  our  Display
Technologies  segment as our competitors  strive to expand  production of larger
generation substrates.

We face risks related to our international operations and sales

     We have customers and significant  operations,  including manufacturing and
sales,  located  outside the U.S.  We have large  manufacturing  operations  for
liquid crystal display glass substrates in Taiwan and the  Asia-Pacific  region,
including  equity  investments  in companies  operating in South Korea that make
glass  substrates for the LCD market.  All of our Display segment  customers are
located in the Asia-Pacific region. As a result of these and other international
operations, we face a number of risks, including:

          .    geographical concentration of our factories and operations;
          .    major health concerns;
          .    difficulty of managing global operations;
          .    difficulty in protecting intellectual property;
          .    tariffs,  duties and other trade barriers including  anti-dumping
               duties;
          .    undeveloped legal systems;
          .    political and economic instability in foreign markets, and
          .    foreign currency risk.

     Any of these  items  could  cause  our  sales  and/or  profitability  to be
significantly reduced.





We face risks due to foreign currency fluctuations

     Because we have  significant  customers  and  operations  outside the U.S.,
fluctuations in foreign currencies,  especially the Japanese yen, the New Taiwan
dollar,  the Korean  won,  and the euro,  affect  our sales and  profit  levels.
Foreign exchange rates may make our products less competitive in countries where
local currencies decline in value relative to the dollar and Japanese yen. Sales
in our Display  Technologies  segment,  representing 38% of Corning's sales, are
denominated   in  Japanese  yen.  The  expected  sales  growth  of  the  Display
Technologies  segment  will  increase  our  exposure to  currency  fluctuations.
Although we hedge significant  transaction and balance sheet currency exposures,
we do not hedge  translation risk and thus changes in exchange rates (especially
the  yen)  may  significantly  impact  our  reported  revenues  and  results  of
operations.

If the  financial  condition of our customers  declines,  our credit risks could
increase

     Although we have a rigorous  process to  administer  credit and believe our
reserve is  adequate,  we have  experienced,  and in the future may  experience,
losses as a result of our inability to collect our accounts  receivable.  If our
customers fail to meet their payment  obligations to us, including  deposits due
under  long-term  purchase  and supply  agreements  in our Display  Technologies
segment,  we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of amounts
reserved.  Some  customers  of  our  Display  Technologies  segment  are  thinly
capitalized and/or marginally profitable. In our Environmental products segment,
the U.S. auto customers and certain of their suppliers have  encountered  credit
downgrades or, in the case of Delphi Corporation,  bankruptcy. These factors may
result in an inability to collect receivables or a possible loss in business. As
of December 31, 2005, reserves for trade receivables  totaled  approximately $24
million.

If we do not  successfully  adjust  our  manufacturing  volumes  and fixed  cost
structure,  or achieve  manufacturing  yields or sufficient product reliability,
our operating results could suffer, and we may not achieve  profitability levels
anticipated

     We are investing  heavily in additional  manufacturing  capacity of certain
businesses,  principally  including  liquid  crystal  display  glass and  diesel
emission  substrates and filters.  The speed of constructing  the new facilities
presents  challenges.  We may face  technical  and  process  issues in moving to
commercial  production.  There can be no assurance  that Corning will be able to
pace  its  capacity  expansion  to  the  actual  demand.  It  is  possible  that
manufacturing capacity may exceed customer demand during certain periods.

     The  manufacturing  of our  products  involves  highly  complex and precise
processes, requiring production in highly controlled and dust-free environments.
Changes  in  our  manufacturing   processes  could   significantly   reduce  our
manufacturing   yields  and  product  reliability.   In  some  cases,   existing
manufacturing  may be  insufficient to achieve the volume or requirements of our
customers. We will need to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques to
achieve  targeted  volume,  pricing and cost levels that will permit  profitable
operations.  While we  continue to fund  projects  to improve our  manufacturing
techniques and  processes,  we may not achieve  satisfactory  cost levels in our
manufacturing activities that will fully satisfy our margin targets.

Our future  operating  results  depend on our ability to  purchase a  sufficient
amount of materials,  parts, and manufacturing  equipment components to meet the
demands of our customers

     Our ability to meet  customer  demand  depends,  in part, on our ability to
obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials,  parts and components from our
suppliers.   We  may  experience  shortages  that  could  adversely  affect  our
operations.  Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of
shortages,  there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems
in  the  future.  Furthermore,  certain  of  our  components  and  manufacturing
equipment are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not
be  able  to  find  alternate  sources  in  a  timely  manner.  A  reduction  or
interruption  in supplies,  or a  significant  increase in the price of supplies
could have a material adverse effect on our businesses.

We have incurred, and may in the future incur,  restructuring and other charges,
the amounts of which are difficult to predict accurately

     We have recorded several charges for  restructuring,  impairment of assets,
and the  write-off of cost and equity based  investments.  It is possible we may
record  additional  charges  for  restructuring  or other asset  impairments  if
additional  actions become necessary to align costs to a reduced level of demand
or other factors impacting our businesses.

We have  incurred,  and may in the future incur,  goodwill and other  intangible
asset impairment charges

     At December 31, 2005,  Corning had goodwill and other intangible  assets of
$338 million.  While we believe the  estimates  and judgments  about future cash
flows used in the goodwill  impairment  tests are reasonable,  we cannot provide
assurance  that future  impairment  charges will not be required if the expected
cash flow estimates as projected by management do not occur.





We may be limited in our ability to obtain  additional  capital on  commercially
reasonable terms

     Although we believe  existing cash,  short-term  investments  and borrowing
capacity,  collectively,  provide adequate  resources to fund ongoing  operating
requirements,  we may be  required  to  seek  additional  financing  to  compete
effectively in our markets.  Our public debt ratings affect our ability to raise
capital and the cost of such  capital.  Our ratings as of February 17, 2006 were
BBB- from both Fitch,  Inc. and Standard & Poor's, a division of the McGraw-Hill
Companies, Inc. and Baa3 from Moody's Investors Service, a subsidiary of Moody's
Corporation.  Any  downgrades  may increase our  borrowing  costs and affect our
ability to access the capital markets.

     We are subject under our revolving  credit facility to financial  covenants
that  require us to  maintain  two ratios  including  total debt to capital  and
interest  coverage,  as  defined  under the  revolving  credit  facility.  These
covenants  limit our  ability  to borrow  funds.  Future  losses or  significant
charges would materially affect these ratios,  and may reduce the amounts we are
able to borrow under our revolving credit facility.

If our products or materials purchased from our suppliers experience performance
issues, our business will suffer

     Our business  depends on the  production of products of  consistently  high
quality.  Our products,  components and materials  purchased from our suppliers,
are  typically  tested for  quality.  These  testing  procedures  are limited to
evaluating  our products under likely and  foreseeable  failure  scenarios.  For
various reasons, our products, including materials purchased from our suppliers,
may fail to perform as expected.  In some cases, product redesigns or additional
expense may be required to correct a defect.  A significant or systemic  product
failure could result in customer relations  problems,  lost sales, and financial
damages.

We face competition in most of our businesses

     We  expect  that  we  will  face  additional   competition   from  existing
competitors, low cost manufacturers and new entrants. We must invest in research
and   development,   expand  our   engineering,   manufacturing   and  marketing
capabilities,  and continue to improve  customer service and support in order to
remain competitive. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain
or improve our competitive position.

We may experience difficulties in enforcing our intellectual property rights and
we may be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual  property rights
of others

     We may encounter  difficulties  in  protecting  our  intellectual  property
rights or obtaining  rights to  additional  intellectual  property  necessary to
permit us to continue or expand our  businesses.  We cannot  assure you that the
patents that we hold or may obtain will provide  meaningful  protection  against
our  competitors.  Litigation  may be  necessary  to  enforce  our  intellectual
property  rights.  Litigation is  inherently  uncertain and the outcome is often
unpredictable.  Other  companies  hold  patents  on  technologies  used  in  our
industries  and are  aggressively  seeking to expand,  enforce and license their
patent portfolios.

     The  intellectual  property  rights of others could  inhibit our ability to
introduce new products.  We are, and may in the future be,  subject to claims of
intellectual  property  infringement or misappropriation that may result in loss
of revenue,  require us to incur substantial  costs, or lead to monetary damages
or injunctive  relief against us. We cannot assure you as to the outcome of such
claims.

Current or future  litigation  may harm our  financial  condition  or results of
operations

     Pending,   threatened   or  future   litigation   is  subject  to  inherent
uncertainties. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely
affected by unfavorable outcomes, expenses and costs exceeding amounts estimated
or  insured.  In  particular,  we have been  named as a  defendant  in  numerous
lawsuits  alleging  personal  injury from exposure to asbestos.  As described in
Legal  Proceedings,  our  negotiations  with  the  representatives  of  asbestos
claimants  have  produced  a  tentative   settlement   through  a  PCC  Plan  of
Reorganization,  but certain cases may still be litigated. The final approval of
the tentative settlement is subject to a number of uncertainties. Final approval
of a global settlement through the PCC bankruptcy process may impact the results
of operations for the period in which such costs, if any, are recognized.  Total
charges of $818 million have been incurred through  December 31, 2005;  however,
additional charges are possible due to the potential fluctuation in the price of
our common  stock,  other  adjustments  in the  proposed  settlement,  and other
litigation factors.





We face risks through our equity method  investments in companies that we do not
control

     Corning's net income includes  significant equity in earnings of associated
companies.  For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recognized  $611 million of
equity  earnings,  of which $661 million came from our two largest  investments:
Dow Corning  Corporation  (which makes  silicone  products) and Samsung  Corning
Precision Glass Co., Ltd.  (which makes liquid crystal  display glass).  Samsung
Corning Precision Glass Co., Ltd. (Samsung Corning  Precision) is located in the
Asia-Pacific  region and is  subject to  political  geographic  risks  mentioned
above. Our equity  investments may not continue to perform at the same levels as
in recent  years.  In the third  quarter of 2005,  we  recognized  equity losses
associated with Samsung Corning Co., Ltd. (our 50% equity method investment that
makes glass panels and funnels for  conventional  televisions),  which  recorded
significant  fixed  asset  and other  impairment  charges.  As the  conventional
television market will be negatively  impacted by strong growth in the LCD glass
market,  it is  reasonably  possible  that Samsung  Corning Co.,  Ltd. may incur
additional  restructuring  or impairment  charges or net operating losses in the
future.

We may not have adequate insurance coverage for claims against us

     We face the risk of loss  resulting  from  product  liability,  securities,
fiduciary liability,  intellectual property, antitrust,  contractual,  warranty,
fraud and other lawsuits, whether or not such claims are valid. In addition, our
product  liability,   fiduciary,   directors  and  officers,  property,  natural
catastrophe and comprehensive general liability insurance may not be adequate to
cover such claims or may not be available to the extent we expect. Our insurance
costs  have  increased  and  may  increase  further.  We may  not be able to get
adequate  insurance  coverage in the future at  acceptable  costs.  A successful
claim that  exceeds or is not covered by our  policies  could  require us to pay
substantial  sums. Some of the carriers in our excess insurance  programs are in
liquidation  and may not be able to respond if we should  have  claims  reaching
into excess layers.  The financial health of other insurers may deteriorate.  In
addition,  we may not be able to obtain adequate  insurance coverage for certain
risk such as political risk, terrorism or war.

The Company has material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting
and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified
in the future.  Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control
over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in the financial
statements.

     Management has identified  material weaknesses in our internal control over
financial  reporting that resulted in the  restatement  of the Company's  annual
consolidated  financial  statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003 and the  quarterly  consolidated  financial  statements  for the  three
quarterly  periods in the years ended  December 31, 2005 and 2004. See "Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures."

     The material  weaknesses in the Company's  internal  control over financial
reporting  during  the  periods  related  to  ineffective  controls  over 1) the
valuation   of  its  asbestos   settlement   charges  and  the   valuation   and
reconciliation of the related  liability related to the 2003 Pittsburgh  Corning
Corporation Asbestos Litigation Bankruptcy  Settlement,  and 2) the completeness
and accuracy of its equity investments.

     Additionally,  these control deficiencies could result in a misstatement of
our investments and equity in earnings of associated companies that would result
in a  material  misstatement  to the annual or  interim  consolidated  financial
statements that would not be prevented or detected.

     We cannot assure you that  additional  material  weaknesses in our internal
control over  financial  reporting  will not be  identified  in the future.  Any
failure to maintain or  implement  required  new or  improved  controls,  or any
difficulties  that may be encountered in their  implementation,  could result in
additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause the Company to
fail  to  meet  its  periodic  reporting   obligations  or  result  in  material
misstatements in the Company's financial statements. Any such failure could also
adversely  affect the  results of  periodic  management  evaluations  and annual
auditor reports  regarding the  effectiveness of the Company's  internal control
over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and the rules  promulgated  under  Section 404.  The  existence of material
weaknesses could result in errors in our financial  statements that could result
in a restatement of financial statements.

Other

Additional  information  in  response  to Item 1 is found in Note 19  (Operating
Segments) to the consolidated financial statements and selected financial data.

Item 1B