. Risk FactorsWe face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below.Our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term is dependent upon our ability to fund and introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers.We operate in a very competitive industry with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet rapidly evolving consumer expectations. Producing new and improved vehicle models competitively and preserving our reputation for designing, building and selling high quality cars and trucks is critical to our long-term profitability. We will launch a substantial number of new vehicles in 2016. Successful launches of our new vehicles are critical to our short-term profitability. In addition, our growth strategies require us to make significant investment in our brands to appeal to new markets. Our long-term profitability depends upon our successfully creating and funding technological innovations in design, engineering and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment and the ability to retain and recruit talent. In some cases the technologies that we plan to employ are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by our suppliers. Although we will seek to obtain intellectual property protection for our innovations to protect our competitive position, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. There can be no assurance that advances in technology will occur in a timely or feasible way, or that others will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or that we will acquire technologies on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage.It generally takes two years or more to design and develop a new vehicle, and a number of factors may lengthen that time period. Because of this product development cycle and the various elements that may contribute to consumers’ acceptance of new vehicle designs, including competitors’ product introductions, technological innovations, fuel prices, general economic conditions and changes in styling preferences, an initial product concept or design may not result in a vehicle that generates sales in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. Our high proportion of fixed costs, both due to our significant investment in property, plant and equipment as well as other requirements of our collective bargaining agreements, which limit our flexibility to adjust personnel costs to changes in demands for our products, may further exacerbate the risks associated with incorrectly assessing demand for our vehicles.Our profitability is dependent upon the success of full-size pick-up trucks and SUVs.While we offer a balanced and complete portfolio of small, mid-size and large cars, crossovers, SUVs and trucks, we generally recognize higher profit margins on our full-size pick-up trucks and SUVs. Our success is dependent upon consumer preferences and our ability to sell higher margin vehicles in sufficient volumes. Any increases in the price of oil or any sustained shortage of  12Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESoil, including as a result of global political instability, could cause a shift in consumer demand towards smaller, more fuel efficient vehicles, and weaken the demand for our higher margin full-size pick-up trucks and SUVs.Our business is highly dependent upon the global automobile market sales volume, which can be volatile.Our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, changes to which can have a disproportionately large effect on our profitability. A number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, availability of affordable financing, fluctuations in the cost of fuel, consumer confidence, political unrest and global economic conditions. We cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty.Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions.Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The automotive market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the size of the Chinese market continues to increase we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the Chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. In addition our business in China is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in China. A significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. Many of our operations, primarily in China, are carried out by joint ventures. In joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. The benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners; therefore, we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. In addition, because we share ownership and management with one or more parties, we may have limited control over the actions of a joint venture, particularly when we own a minority interest. As a result, we may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by a joint venture. Moreover, a joint venture may not follow the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. To the extent another party makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control issues arise within the joint venture, we may have to take responsive or other action or we may be subject to penalties, fines or other related actions for these activities that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our businesses outside the U.S. expose us to additional risks.The majority of our vehicles are sold outside the U.S. We are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the U.S. Operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including:•Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates;•Economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as China; •Economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the U.S. and China, more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry; •Changes in foreign regulations impacting our overall business model restricting our ability to buy and sell our products in those countries, especially China; •Differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; •Impact of compliance with U.S. and other foreign countries’ export controls and economic sanctions;•Liabilities resulting from U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain other anti-corruption laws; 13Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES•Differing labor regulations and union relationships; •Consequences from changes in tax laws; and•Difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations.We are subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations and policies, including those regarding fuel economy and emissions control, the enforcement of which or changes to existing ones, could cause us to incur increased costs or to face regulatory enforcement action and may have a significant effect on how we do business.We are significantly affected by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. Meeting or exceeding many of these regulations is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may not be harmonized across jurisdictions, a notable challenge with respect to mandated emissions and fuel economy standards. We anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, may increase significantly in the future. These government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and given the uncertainty surrounding enforcement and regulatory definitions, may result in substantial costs, including civil or criminal penalties. In addition, an evolving but un-harmonized regulatory framework may limit or dictate the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. Refer to the "Environmental and Regulatory Matters" section of Item 1. Business for a discussion of these regulatory requirements. We also expect that manufacturers will be subject to increased scrutiny from regulators globally as a result of the well-publicized emissions scandal involving an unrelated automotive manufacturer in 2015. For example, government agencies in several countries have asked us for information; one of these, the German Ministry of Transportation, is requesting the participation of a number of automotive manufacturers, including our German subsidiary, in discussions on emissions control issues and has requested a written response from our subsidiary on the subject. This scrutiny, regulatory changes and increased enforcement may lead to increased testing and re-testing of our vehicles and analysis of their emissions control systems, which could lead to increased costs, penalties, negative publicity or reputational impact, and recall activity if regulators determine that emission levels and required regulatory compliance should be based on either a wider spectrum of driving conditions for future testing parameters or stricter or novel interpretations and consequent enforcement of existing requirements. No assurance can be given that the ultimate outcome of any potential investigations or increased testing resulting from this scrutiny would not materially and adversely affect us.We are committed to meeting or exceeding fuel economy and emission control requirements. We expect that to comply with these requirements we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid electric vehicles, as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. There is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. Alternative compliance measures may not be sufficiently available in the marketplace to meet volume driven compliance requirements.Environmental liabilities for which we may be responsible are not reasonably estimable and could be substantial. Violations of safety or emissions standards could result in the recall of one or more of our products, negotiated remedial actions, possible fines, restricted product offerings or a combination of any of those items. Any of these actions could have substantial adverse effects on our operations including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue.We could be materially adversely affected by a negative outcome in unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or other legal proceedings. We are subject to legal proceedings involving various issues, including product liability lawsuits, stockholder litigation and governmental investigations, such as the legal proceedings related to the Ignition Switch Recall. Refer to the "GM North America" section of MD&A for additional information on the Ignition Switch Recall. Such legal proceedings could in the future result in the imposition of damages, including punitive damages, substantial fines, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices, equitable remedies and other sanctions against us or our personnel as well as significant legal and other costs. For a further discussion of these matters refer to Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements.If, in the discretion of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York (the Office), we do not comply with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the DPA), the Office may prosecute us for charges alleged by the Office including those relating to faulty ignition switches.On September 17, 2015 we announced that we entered into the DPA with the Office regarding its investigation of the events leading up to certain recalls announced in February and March 2014 relating to faulty ignition switches. Under the DPA, we  14Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESconsented to, among other things, the filing of a two-count information (the Information) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York charging GM with a scheme to conceal material facts from a government regulator and wire fraud. We pled not guilty to the charges alleged in the Information. The DPA further provides that, in the event the Office determines during the period of deferral of prosecution (or any extensions thereof) that we have violated any provision of the DPA, including violating any U.S. federal law or our obligation to cooperate with and assist the independent  monitor, the Office may, in its discretion, either prosecute us on the charges alleged in the Information or impose an extension of the period of deferral of prosecution of up to one additional year. Under such circumstance, the Office would be permitted to rely upon the admissions we made in the DPA and would benefit from our waiver of certain procedural and evidentiary defenses. Such a criminal prosecution could subject us to penalties that could have material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.The costs and effect on our reputation of product safety recalls could materially adversely affect our business.Government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy certain product safety defects through recall campaigns. Under these standards, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or may incur various costs, including significant costs for free repairs. At present, the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. We currently source a variety of systems, components, raw materials and parts, including but not limited to air bag inflators, from third parties. From time to time these items may have performance or quality issues that could harm our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. For example, based on defect information reports filed with NHTSA by TK Holdings Inc. (Takata), we are currently conducting recalls for certain Takata air bag inflators used in some of our prior model year vehicles. We are continuing to assess the situation. Further recalls, if any, that may be required to remediate Takata air bag inflators in our vehicles could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. Conversely not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation, potentially expose us to significant monetary penalties, and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above.Any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule.Our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, raw materials and parts that we need to manufacture our products. Our use of “just-in-time” manufacturing processes allows us to maintain minimal inventory quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts. As a result our ability to maintain production is dependent upon our suppliers delivering sufficient quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts on time to meet our production schedules. In some instances we purchase systems, components, raw materials and parts from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. Financial difficulties or solvency problems with our suppliers, which may be exacerbated by the cost of remediating quality issues with these items, could lead to uncertainty in our supply chain or cause supply disruptions for us which could, in turn, disrupt our operations, including production of certain of our higher margin vehicles. Where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. Any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components, raw materials or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely.We are dependent on our manufacturing facilities around the world.We assemble vehicles at various facilities around the world. These facilities are typically designed to produce particular models for particular geographic markets. No single facility is designed to manufacture our full range of vehicles. In some cases certain facilities produce products that disproportionately contribute a greater degree of profit to the Company than others. Should these or other facilities become unavailable either temporarily or permanently for any number of reasons, including labor disruptions, the inability to manufacture vehicles there may result in harm to our reputation, increased costs, lower revenues and the loss of customers. We may not be able to easily shift production of vehicles at an inoperable facility to other facilities or to make up for lost production. Any new facility needed to replace an inoperable manufacturing facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements, need to satisfy our specialized manufacturing requirements and require specialized equipment. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available or any losses which may be excluded under our insurance policies. If we do not deliver new products, services and customer experiences in response to new participants in the automotive industry, our business could suffer. 15Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESWe believe that the automotive industry will experience more change in the next five years than it has in the previous 50 years. In addition to our traditional competitors, we must also be responsive to the entrance of non-traditional participants in the automotive industry. These non-traditional participants may seek to disrupt the historic business model of the industry through the introduction of new technologies, new products or services, new business models or new methods of travel. It is strategically significant that we lead the technological disruption occurring in our industry. As our business evolves, the pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services, including products and services that may be outside of our historically core business. If we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations, market developments and changing customer needs, our sales, profitability and long-term competitiveness may be harmed. We operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. The global automotive industry is highly competitive and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. Many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. Our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering marketing incentives or reducing vehicle prices. Our competitors may also seek to benefit from economies of scale by consolidating or entering into other strategic agreements such as alliances intended to enhance their competitiveness.Manufacturers in lower cost countries, such as China and India, have become competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a low cost alternative to established entry-level automobiles. These actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle.We may continue to restructure our operations in various countries, but we may not succeed in doing so.We face difficult market and operating conditions in certain parts of the world that may require us to restructure, impair or rationalize these operations. In many countries across our regions we have experienced challenges in our operations and continue to strategically assess the manner in which we operate in certain countries. As we continue to assess our performance throughout the regions, additional restructuring, impairment and rationalization actions may be required and may be material.Our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement operating effectiveness initiatives throughout our automotive operations. We are continuing to implement a number of operating effectiveness initiatives to improve productivity and reduce costs. Our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these initiatives throughout our automotive operations. While some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others, such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our costs. Reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. Security breaches and other disruptions to our vehicles, information technology networks and systems could interfere with the safety of our customers or our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of private customer data or our proprietary information.We rely upon information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of vehicle or business processes and activities. Additionally we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, propriety business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks and in-vehicle systems, and the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems and in-vehicle systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our networks and systems or computer viruses. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. These occurrences could also impact vehicle safety. We have been the target of these types of attacks in the past with no known material impacts and future attacks are likely to occur. If successful, these types of attacks on our network  16Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESor systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, or service failures could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, due to, among other things, the loss of proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business operations and damage to our reputation. In addition any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to significant security attacks or disruptions resulting from such attacks.We rely on GM Financial to provide financial services to our dealers and customers in a majority of the markets in which we sell vehicles. GM Financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and financing to retail consumers and commercial lending to our dealers to support additional sales of our vehicles. We rely on GM Financial in North America, Europe, South America and China to support leasing and sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring vehicle financing and also to provide commercial lending to our dealers. Any reduction of GM Financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to support additional sales of our vehicles and expand our market penetration among consumers and dealers. As an entity operating in the financial services sector, GM Financial is required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations that may be costly to adhere to and may affect our consolidated operating results. Compliance with these laws and regulations requires that GM Financial maintain forms, processes, procedures, controls and the infrastructure to support these requirements and these laws and regulations often create operational constraints both on GM Financial’s ability to implement servicing procedures and on pricing. Laws in the financial services industry are designed primarily for the protection of consumers. The failure to comply with these laws could result in significant statutory civil and criminal penalties, monetary damages, attorneys’ fees and costs, possible revocation of licenses and damage to reputation, brand and valued customer relationships.The primary factors that could adversely affect GM Financial's business and operations and reduce its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include: •The availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to fund its retail and dealer finance activities; •Its ability to access a variety of financing sources including the asset-backed securities market and other secured and unsecured debt markets;•The performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; •Wholesale auction values of used vehicles;•Higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles GM Financial leases to customers;•Fluctuations in interest rates and currencies; and •Changes to regulation, supervision and licensing across various jurisdictions, including new regulations or sanctions imposed in the U.S. by the Department of Justice, SEC and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.Our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, changes in laws or regulations, changes in assumptions or investments that do not achieve adequate returns.Our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. A detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is disclosed in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments.There are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. Examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market liquidity in particular asset classes and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. Our future funding requirements for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans  17Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESand any changes in government laws and regulations. Future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, assuming other factors are held constant. Our potential funding requirements are described in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements.Factors which affect future funding requirements for our U.S. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-U.S. plans. Certain plans outside the U.S. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. If local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our non-U.S. plans, we could be required to contribute more funds.*  *  *  *  *  *  *Item 1B