Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below.Our business is highly dependent on sales volume. There is no assurance that the global automobile market will not suffer a significant downturn.Our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume. A number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, the availability of credit, fluctuations in the cost of fuel and consumer confidence. We cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty and any change in economic and market conditions that negatively affects sales volumes could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term is dependent upon our ability to introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers.Our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term depends on our ability to entice consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. The automotive industry, particularly in the U.S., is very competitive with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations, and in the past our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead. Producing new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors and changing any negative perception, in light of Old GM's bankruptcy, will be critical to our long-term profitability. We will launch a substantial number of new vehicles in 2014. A successful launch of our new vehicles is critical to our short term profitability.The pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design, engineering and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. In some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by our suppliers. There can be no assurance that our competitors and others pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. If we are unable to achieve these goals, we may not be able to maintain profitability over the long-term. Shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may have a material adverse effect on our business due to shifts in consumer vehicle demand. Volatile oil prices in recent years have tended to cause a shift in consumer demand towards smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins. Any increases in the price of oil in the U.S. or in our other markets or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of political instability in the Middle East, South America and African nations, could weaken the demand for our higher margin fullsize pick-up trucks and sport utility vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business. 17Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESOur future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations. We are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including labor modifications and substantial restructuring initiatives. Our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these initiatives throughout our automotive operations. While some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our costs. Reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. Our automotive manufacturing operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to provide us with systems, components and parts and any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule and adversely affect our operations. Our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components and parts that we need to manufacture our products. Our use of “just-in-time” manufacturing processes results in our having minimal inventories of the systems, components and parts we need to conduct our automotive manufacturing operations. As a result our ability to maintain production is dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of systems, components and parts at such times as allow us to meet our production schedules. In some instances we purchase systems, components, parts and supplies from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. Where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. Any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely and thus could adversely affect our financial results.Increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of raw materials could materially harm our business. We use various raw materials in our business including steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. In recent years freight charges and raw material costs increased. Substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through increased vehicle prices. Some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. An increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent. We operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. The global automotive industry is highly competitive and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. Many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. Our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by attempting to sell more vehicles by adding vehicle enhancements, providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering option package discounts or other marketing incentives, or reducing vehicle prices in certain markets. Manufacturers in lower cost countries such as China and India have emerged as competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a bargain alternative to entry-level automobiles. These actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle.Our competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances. Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. Large original equipment manufacturers are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and nameplates. If our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they may be able to take better advantage of these economies of scale. We believe that competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could adversely affect  18Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESour competitiveness with respect to those competitors. Competitors could use consolidation or alliances as a means of enhancing their competitiveness or liquidity position, which could also materially adversely affect our business. Our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various European countries, but we may not succeed in doing so, and our failure to restructure these operations in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In 2013 the European automotive industry continued to be severely affected by the ongoing sovereign debt crisis, high unemployment and a lack of consumer confidence coupled with overcapacity.In response we are executing various actions to strengthen our European operations and increase our competitiveness. The key areas of the plan include:•investments in our product portfolio;•a revised brand strategy;•significant management changes;•reducing material, development and production costs; and•leveraging synergies from the alliance between us and Peugeot S.A. (PSA).Notwithstanding the above we believe it is likely that adverse economic conditions and their effect on the European automotive industry will not improve significantly in the short-term and we expect to continue to incur losses in the region as a result. In addition the success of our plan will depend on a combination of our ability to execute the actions contemplated, as well as external factors, which are outside of our control. Our inability to successfully restructure our European operations and implement our plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates and investments that do not achieve adequate returns. Our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. A detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is disclosed in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments.There are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. Examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market capacity to absorb a particular investment strategy or high volume transactions and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. Our future funding requirement for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. Future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, as other factors are held constant. Our potential funding requirements are described in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations -- Contractual Obligations and Other Long-Term Liabilities.”Factors which affect future funding requirements for our U.S. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-U.S. plans. Certain plans outside the U.S. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. If local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the U.S., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow.We rely on GM Financial to provide financial services to our dealers and customers in a majority of the markets in which we sell vehicles. GM Financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing, prime and sub-prime financing to consumers and commercial lending to our dealers to support additional sales of our vehicles. In North America GM Financial supports additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring sub-prime vehicle financing as well as providing commercial lending to our dealers. In Europe and South America we rely on GM Financial to support additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to  19Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESprime consumers as well as providing commercial lending to our dealers. GM Financial is subject to various risks that could negatively affect its business, operations and access to capital and therefore its ability to provide leasing, prime and sub-prime financing options at competitive rates to consumers of our vehicles and commercial lending to our dealers. Because we rely on GM Financial to serve as an additional source of leasing, prime and sub-prime financing options for consumers and commercial lending to our dealers, any impairment of GM Financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to expand our market penetration among consumers who rely on these financial services to acquire new vehicles and dealers who seek financing. The factors that could adversely affect GM Financial's business and operations and impair its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include: •The ability to close the acquisition of GMAC-SAIC and integrate the acquired Ally Financial international operations  into its business successfully;•The availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to fund its consumer and dealer finance activities pending securitization; •Its ability to transfer finance receivables and leases to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds to repay its credit facilities and fund additional finance receivables and leases; •The performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; •Wholesale auction values of used vehicles;•Higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles GM Financial leases; and•Fluctuations in interest rates and currencies. The above factors, alone or in combination, could negatively affect GM Financial's business and operations or its ability to provide leasing, prime and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles and dealer financing. Our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels and, even if funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications.We intend to invest significant capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. In addition we plan to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2014 and 2015, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and electric vehicles. Moreover if our future operations do not provide us with the cash flow we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay or cancel our planned investments in new technology. In some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. There can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. However our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies and there can be no assurance that they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology networks and systems could interfere with our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of our proprietary information.We rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including supply chain management, manufacturing, invoicing and collection of payments from our dealer network and from customers of GM Financial. Additionally we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the propriety business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our  20Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESnetworks and systems, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to significant security attacks or disruptions resulting from such attacks.New laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant effect on how we do business. We are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. We anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, will increase significantly in the future. In the U.S. and Europe, for example, governmental regulation is driven primarily by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy and energy security. These government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs, including civil penalties. They may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. In the U.S. vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions are regulated under a harmonized national program administered by the NHTSA and the EPA. The agencies have set coordinated fuel economy and greenhouse emission standards through the 2025 model year for light duty vehicles and through the 2018 model year for heavy duty trucks. California, which has set its own greenhouse gas emission standards through its AB 1493 Rules, has agreed to accept compliance with the national program as compliance with its state program.We are committed to meeting or exceeding these U.S. regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the anticipated national program through the 2021 model year. The standards for the 2022 through 2025 model years may be adjusted as a result of a mid-term review by the agencies. Therefore we believe it is premature to project compliance with possible standards for those years. We expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid electric vehicles, as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. There is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis, or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs.The EU passed legislation, effective in April 2009, that began regulating vehicle CO2 emissions in 2012. The legislation sets a target of a fleet average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight of the vehicles it sells. Additional measures have been proposed or adopted in Europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance, vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators and others. At the national level 17 EU Member States have adopted some form of fuel consumption or carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the EU emissions standards. Other governments around the world, such as Canada, China, Brazil, Mexico and South Korea are also creating or have new policies to address these same issues. As in the U.S. these government policies could significantly affect our plans for product development. Due to these regulations we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. The regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue.A significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. Many of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried out by joint ventures such as SGM. In joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. The benefits  21Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESfrom a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions.Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The automotive market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the size of the Chinese market continues to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the Chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. In addition our business in China is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in China. If we are unable to maintain our position in the Chinese market or if vehicle sales in China decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. We could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Given the nature of the automotive industry and global spread of our business, we have significant exposures to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. In preparing the consolidated financial statements we translate our revenues and expenses outside the U.S. into U.S. Dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. As a result foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses outside the U.S. expose us to additional risks that may materially adversely affect our business. The majority of our vehicles are sold outside the U.S. We are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the U.S. Operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including:•Economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as China; •Economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the U.S. and China; •Foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries; •Differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; •Liabilities resulting from U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain other anti-corruption laws;•Differing labor regulations and union relationships; •Consequences from changes in tax laws; •Difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and •Political and economic instability, natural calamities, war and terrorism. The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business. New laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant negative effect on how we do business. Our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. Meeting or exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. While we are managing our product development and production operations on a global basis to  22Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESreduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing and manufacturing. Governments often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product.The costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business.From time to time we recall our products to address performance, compliance or safety-related issues. The costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. In addition product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. Any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. Conversely not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above.*  *  *  *  *  *  *Item 1B