Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below.Our business is highly dependent on sales volume. There is no assurance that the global automobile market will not suffer another significant downturn.Our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, as demonstrated by the effect of sharp declines in vehicle sales on our and Old GM's business during the most recent economic downturn. A number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, the availability of credit, fluctuations in the cost of fuel and consumer confidence. In particular, recent concerns over levels of sovereign indebtedness have contributed to a renewed tightening of credit markets in some of the markets in which we do business. We cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty and any change in economic and market conditions that negatively affects sales volumes could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term is dependent upon our ability to introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers.Our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term depends on our ability to entice consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. The automotive industry, particularly in the U.S., is very competitive with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations, and in the recent past our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead. Producing new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors and changing this perception, including with respect to smaller, more fuel efficient vehicles, as well as the perception of our company in light of Old GM's bankruptcy and our status as a recipient of aid under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), will be critical to our long-term profitability.The pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design, engineering, and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. In some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. Government support of the production of vehicles with these technologies has led some consumers to have a negative impression of these vehicles, which reduces sales. There can be no assurance that our competitors and others pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies, in some cases with more money available, will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. If we are unable to achieve these goals, we may not be able to maintain profitability over the long-term. Shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may have a material adverse effect on our business due to shifts in consumer vehicle demand. Volatile oil prices in recent years have tended to cause a shift in consumer demand towards smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins and in recent years represented a smaller proportion of Old GM's and our sales volume in North America. Any increases in the price of oil in the U.S. or in our other markets or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of political instability in the Middle East, South America and African nations, could weaken the demand for our higher margin fullsize pick-up trucks and sport utility vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability, and have a material adverse effect on our business.Our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations. 19Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESWe are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including labor modifications and substantial restructuring initiatives for our European operations. Our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations, especially in North America and Europe. While some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our structural costs. Reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety, and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. Our automotive manufacturing operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to provide us with systems, components, and parts and any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule and adversely affect our operations. Our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, and parts that we need to manufacture our products. Our use of “just-in-time” manufacturing processes results in our having minimal inventories of the systems, components, and parts we need to conduct our automotive manufacturing operations. As a result, our ability to maintain production is dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of systems, components, and parts at such times as allow us to meet our production schedules. A disruption in any of our suppliers' operations, even if for a relatively short period of time, could cause us to alter our production schedules or suspend production entirely. For example, in March 2011 we suspended production at our Shreveport, Louisiana assembly facility due to a parts shortage resulting from the earthquake off the coast of Japan. In some instances, we purchase systems, components, parts and supplies from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. Where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. Any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components or parts could adversely affect our financial results.Increase in cost, disruption of supply, or shortage of raw materials could materially harm our business. We use various raw materials in our business including steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. In recent years, freight charges and raw material costs increased. Substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through increased vehicle prices. Some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. An increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent. We operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results. The global automotive industry is highly competitive, and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. Many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. Our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by attempting to sell more vehicles by adding vehicle enhancements, providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering option package discounts or other marketing incentives, or reducing vehicle prices in certain markets. Manufacturers in lower cost countries such as China and India have emerged as competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a bargain alternative to entry-level automobiles. These actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle.Our competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances. Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. Large original equipment manufacturers are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and nameplates. If our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they may be able to take better advantage of these economies of scale. We believe that competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could adversely affect 20Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESour competitiveness with respect to those competitors. Competitors could use consolidation or alliances as a means of enhancing their competitiveness or liquidity position, which could also materially adversely affect our business. As part of our business plan, and pursuant to the direction of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation, we have limited cash compensation and certain benefits for our most highly paid executives and have reduced the number of our management and non-management salaried employees, and these actions may materially adversely affect our ability to hire and retain salaried employees. As part of the cost reduction initiatives in our business plan, and pursuant to the direction of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation, the form and timing of the compensation for our most highly paid executives is not competitive with that offered by other major corporations. Furthermore, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the United States Department of the Treasury (UST) Credit Agreement, entered into July 10, 2009, as amended, (UST Credit Agreement) the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), including the Interim Final Rule implementing Section 111 (the Interim Final Rule), will continue to apply to us for the period specified in the EESA and the Interim Final Rule. Certain of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement will continue to apply to us until the earlier to occur of: (1) us ceasing to be a recipient of exceptional financial assistance, as determined pursuant to the Interim Final Rule or any successor or final rule (Exceptional Financial Assistance); or (2) UST ceasing to own any direct or indirect equity interests in us. The effect of Section 111 of EESA, the Interim Final Rule and the covenants is to restrict the compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibit certain types of compensation or benefits for any employees. At the same time, we have substantially decreased the number of salaried employees so that the workload is shared among fewer employees and in general the demands on each salaried employee are increased. Companies in similar situations have experienced significant difficulties in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly in competitive specialties. Given our compensation structure and increasing job demands, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire and retain the employees whose expertise is required to execute our business plan while at the same time developing and producing vehicles that will stimulate demand for our products. Our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various European countries, but we may not succeed in doing so, and our failure to restructure these operations in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various European countries, and we are actively working to accomplish this. Restructurings, whether or not ultimately successful, can involve significant expense and disruption to the business as well as labor disruptions, which can adversely affect the business. The restructuring of our European operations will require us to invest additional funds and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that any of our contemplated restructurings will be completed or achieve the desired results. Our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded, and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, and investments that do not achieve adequate returns. Our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. A detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is disclosed in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments.There are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. Examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market capacity to absorb a particular investment strategy or high volume transactions, and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. Our future funding requirement for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. Future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, as other factors are held constant. Our potential funding requirements under various assumed scenarios are described in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations and Other Long-Term Liabilities.”If we are unable to meet our funding requirements for our U.S. pension plans under the terms imposed by regulators at a given 21Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESpoint in time, we would need to request a funding waiver from the IRS. If the waiver were granted, we would have the opportunity to make up the missed funding, with interest to the plan. Additional periods of missed funding could further reduce the plans' funded status, resulting in limitations on plan amendments and lump sum payouts from the plans. Continued deterioration in the plans' funded status could result in the cessation of participants' continued accrual of benefits under the terms of the plan until such time as the funding level of the plans meet IRS requirements. These actions could materially adversely affect our relations with our employees and their labor unions. Factors which affect future funding requirement for our U.S. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-U.S. plans. Certain plans outside the U.S. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. If local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the U.S., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow.Our failure to successfully develop our own captive financing unit, including through GM Financial, could leave us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have their own captive financing subsidiaries and that therefore may be able to offer consumers and dealers financing and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to obtain. Many of our competitors operate and control their own captive financing subsidiaries. If any of our competitors with captive financing subsidiaries are able to offer consumers and dealers financing and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to obtain, consumers may be more inclined to purchase our competitors' vehicles and our competitors' dealers may be better able to stock our competitors' products. Through GM Financial we offer leasing and sub-prime financing for our customers. Our failure to successfully develop our own captive financing unit, including through GM Financial, could result in our loss of customers to our competitors with their own captive financing subsidiaries and could adversely affect our dealers' ability to stock our vehicles if they are not able to obtain necessary financing at competitive rates from other sources.We intend to rely on GM Financial to support additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring sub-prime vehicle financing, and GM Financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. GM Financial is subject to various risks that could negatively affect its business, operations and access to capital and therefore its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options at competitive rates to consumers of our vehicles. Because we intend to rely on GM Financial to serve as an additional source of leasing and sub-prime financing options for consumers, any impairment of GM Financial's ability to provide such leasing or sub-prime financing would negatively affect our efforts to expand our market penetration among consumers who rely on leasing and sub-prime financing options to acquire new vehicles. The factors that could adversely affect GM Financial's business and operations and impair its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing at competitive rates include: •The availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to finance its loan and lease origination activities pending securitization; •Its ability to transfer loan receivables to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds to repay its credit facilities and purchase additional loan receivables; •The performance of loans in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; •Its ability to effectively manage risks relating to sub-prime automobile receivables; •Wholesale auction values of used vehicles;•Higher than expected vehicle return rates on vehicles GM Financial leases; and•Fluctuations in interest rates. The above factors, alone or in combination, could negatively affect GM Financial's business and operations or its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. The UST (or its designee) owns a substantial interest in us, and its interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. 22Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESThe UST owns 31.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of February 15, 2012. As a result of this stock ownership interest, the UST has the ability to exert significant influence over various matters, through its power to vote for the election of our directors. To the extent the UST elects to exert such significant influence over us, its interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence, through its ability to vote for the election of our directors, matters including: •The selection, tenure and compensation of our management; •Our business strategy and product offerings; •Our relationship with our employees, unions and other constituencies; and •Our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities. In particular, the UST may have a greater interest in promoting U.S. economic growth and jobs than other stockholders of the Company. For example, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the UST Credit Agreement, a covenant that continues to apply until the earlier of December 31, 2014 or the UST has been paid in full the total amount of all UST invested capital requires that we use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure, subject to exceptions, that our manufacturing volume in the U.S. is consistent with specified benchmarks. In the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business as a result of participation in the TARP program and the U.S. government's ownership in our business. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar regulations. Our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels and, even if funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications.We intend to invest significant capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. In addition, we plan to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2012 and 2013, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and electric vehicles. Moreover, if our future operations do not provide us with the liquidity we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay, or cancel our planned investments in new technology. In some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. For example, in November 2010 we began producing an electric car which requires battery technology that has not yet proven to be commercially viable. There can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate, or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. However, our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies, in some cases they may have more money available, and there can be no assurance that they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology networks and systems could interfere with our operations, and could compromise the confidentiality of our proprietary information.We rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including supply chain management, manufacturing, invoicing, and collection of payments from our dealer network and from customers of GM Financial. Additionally, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the propriety business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our networks and systems, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we 23Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIEShope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies.New laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced, greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant effect on how we do business. We are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. We anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, will increase significantly in the future. In the U.S. and Europe, for example, governmental regulation is driven primarily by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy, and energy security. These government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs, including civil penalties. They may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. In the U.S., vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions are regulated under a harmonized national program administered by the NHTSA and the EPA. The agencies have set coordinated fuel economy and greenhouse emission standards through the 2016 model year for light duty vehicles and through the 2018 model year for heavy duty trucks. California, which has set its own greenhouse gas emission standards through its AB 1493 Rules, has agreed to accept compliance with the national program as compliance with its state program. The NHTSA and EPA have proposed the next round of standards for the 2017 through 2025 model years. EPA projects that its proposed standards would achieve an average industry fleet of 163 grams/mile of CO2 in the 2025 model year, which would be the equivalent of 54.5 mpg if all the CO2 emissions reduction came from fuel economy technology. NHTSA is proposing standards that would require an average industry fleet fuel economy of 49.6 mpg in the 2025 model year. Both agencies have proposed various flexibilities to incentivize early adoption and introduction of advanced technologies that are anticipated to help manufacturers achieve these standards. California has stated that it will adopt standards for the same period and allow manufacturers to comply by meeting the national standards.We are committed to meeting or exceeding these U.S. regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the anticipated national program through the 2021 model year. The standards for the 2022 through 2025 model years may differ from the levels proposed as a result of a mid-term review by the agencies. Therefore, we believe it is premature to project compliance with possible standards for those years. We expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid electric vehicles, as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. There is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis, or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs.The EU passed legislation, effective in April 2009 to begin regulating vehicle CO2 emissions beginning in 2012. The legislation sets a target of a fleet average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight of the vehicles it sells. Additional measures have been proposed or adopted in Europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance, vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators, and others. At the national level, 17 EU Member States have adopted some form of fuel consumption or carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the EU emissions standards. Other governments around the world, such as Canada, China, Brazil, Mexico, and South Korea are also creating new policies to address these same issues. As in the U.S., these government policies could significantly affect our plans for product development. Due to these regulations, we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. The regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs, and loss of revenue.A significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. Many of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as SGM. In joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture be materially adversely affected. The benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. 24Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESOur business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions. Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The automotive market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the size of the Chinese market continues to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the Chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. In addition, our business in China is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in China. If we are unable to maintain our position in the Chinese market or if vehicle sales in China decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. We could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange and other rates. Given the nature of the automotive industry and global spread of our business, we have significant exposures to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. For example, the recent strength of the Canadian Dollar versus the U.S. Dollar has had a negative impact on our profitability as parts and vehicles we manufactured in Canada and exported to the U.S. for sale are less competitive. Similarly, a significant strengthening of the Korean Won relative to the U.S. Dollar or the Euro would affect the competitiveness of our Korean operations as well as that of certain Korean competitors. As yet another example, a relative weakness of the British Pound compared to the Euro would have an adverse effect on our results of operations in Europe. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, we translate our revenues and expenses outside the U.S. into U.S. Dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. As a result, foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our businesses outside the U.S. expose us to additional risks that may materially adversely affect our business. The majority of our vehicle sales are generated outside the U.S. We are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the U.S. Operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic, and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including: •Economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as China; •Economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the U.S. and China; •Foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries; •Differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions, and safety; •Differing labor regulations and union relationships; •Consequences from changes in tax laws; •Difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and •Political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism. The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business. New laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant negative effect on how we do business. Our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. Meeting or exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. While we are managing our product development and production operations on a global basis to reduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing, and manufacturing. Governments often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product. The costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. 25Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESFrom time to time, we recall our products to address performance, compliance, or safety-related issues. The costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. In addition, product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. Any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. Conversely, not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could cause our common stock price to decline or impair our ability to raise capital. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, or the conversion of shares of our Series B Preferred Stock or the perception that conversion could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity and equity-related securities. Of the 1,565,761,986 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding at February 15, 2012 approximately 55% were held by the UST, Canada GEN Investment Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of Canada (Canada Holdings), the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust (New VEBA), and our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans. Sales or distributions of our common stock by these holders, whether pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the exercise of registration rights, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.In addition, at December 31, 2011 there were warrants outstanding to acquire 313 million shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $10.00 per share to $42.31 per share and up to 152 million shares of common stock, subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments, will be issuable upon conversion of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding. Exercises or distributions of warrants or the conversion of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock.We have no current plans to commence payment of a dividend on our common stock. Our payment of dividends on our common stock in the future will be determined by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and will depend on business conditions, our financial condition, earnings and liquidity, and other factors. So long as any share of our Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares of our common stock. In addition, our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, subject to exceptions such as dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock. Any indentures and other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. In the event that any of our indentures or other financing agreements in the future restricts our ability to pay dividends in cash on our common stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on our common stock unless we can refinance the amounts outstanding under those agreements. In addition, under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may declare dividends on our capital stock only to the extent of our statutory “surplus” (which is defined as the amount equal to total assets minus total liabilities, in each case at fair market value, minus statutory capital), or if there is no such surplus, out of our net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year.Goodwill impairments could have a material non-cash adverse effect on our results of operations. We test our goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year for all reporting units, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would warrant such a review. In the future, should the recent economic uncertainty continue, our equity price decline on a sustained basis, global economies enter into another recession and industry growth stagnates or should we release deferred tax asset valuation allowances in certain tax jurisdictions (which could occur in the near future if additional positive evidence becomes available), the fair value of one or more of our reporting units may decrease below its carrying amount and future goodwill impairments that may be material could be recognized. In addition future goodwill impairments could occur should GME continue to have a negative carrying amount.In these circumstances, as discussed in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, future goodwill impairments would 26Table of ContentsGENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESlargely be driven by decreases in the fair value to U.S. GAAP differences attributable to those assets and liabilities that gave rise to goodwill upon our application of fresh-start reporting. Such decreases may occur upon an improvement in our credit rating, a decrease in credit spreads between high quality corporate bond rates and market interest rates thus resulting in a decrease in the spread between our employee benefit related obligations under U.S. GAAP and their fair values and/or a change in the fair values of our estimated employee benefit obligations. A decrease would also occur upon reversal of our deferred tax asset valuation allowances. Any declines resulting in a goodwill impairment may result in material non-cash charges to our earnings.*  *  *  *  *  *  *Item 1B