Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the
    Industries in Which We Do Business.”


 


    NAPA.  The Company is a member of the
    National Automotive Parts Association, a voluntary association
    formed in 1925 to provide nationwide distribution of automotive
    replacement parts. NAPA, which neither buys nor sells automotive
    parts, functions as a trade association whose members in 2009
    operated 64 distribution centers located throughout the United
    States, 58 of which were owned and operated by the Company. NAPA
    develops marketing concepts and programs that may be used by its
    members. It is not involved in the chain of distribution.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    Among the automotive lines that each NAPA member purchases and
    distributes are certain lines designated, cataloged, advertised
    and promoted as “NAPA” lines. The members are not
    required to purchase any specific quantity of parts so
    designated and may, and do, purchase competitive lines from
    other supply sources.


 


    The Company and the other NAPA members use the federally
    registered trademark
    NAPA®

    as part of the trade name of their distribution centers and
    parts stores. The Company contributes to NAPA’s national
    advertising program, which is designed to increase public
    recognition of the NAPA name and to promote NAPA product lines.


 


    The Company is a party, together with other members of NAPA and
    NAPA itself, to a consent decree entered by the Federal District
    Court in Detroit, Michigan, on May 4, 1954. The consent
    decree enjoins certain practices under the federal antitrust
    laws, including the use of exclusive agreements with
    manufacturers of automotive parts, allocation or division of
    territories among several NAPA members, fixing of prices or
    terms of sale for such parts among such members, and agreements
    to adhere to any uniform policy in selecting parts customers or
    determining the number and location of, or arrangements with,
    auto parts customers.


 



    INDUSTRIAL
    PARTS GROUP


 


    The Industrial Parts Group, operated as Motion Industries, Inc.
    (“Motion”), is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
    Company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. Motion distributes
    MRO (maintenance, repair, and operation) industrial replacement
    parts and related supplies such as bearings, mechanical power
    transmission, industrial automation, hose, hydraulic and
    pneumatic components, industrial supplies and material handling
    products throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico.


 


    In Canada, industrial parts are distributed by Motion Industries
    (Canada), Inc. (“Motion Canada”) and the Mexican
    market is served by Motion Mexico S de RL de CV (“Motion
    Mexico”). Both organizations operate in the Company’s
    North American structure


 


    In 2009, the Company acquired General Tool and Supply with six
    locations and it is a supplier of industrial parts and supplies
    in the United States.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, the Industrial Parts Group served
    more than 120,000 customers in all types of industries located
    throughout North America, including the food, forest products,
    primary metal, paper, mining, automotive, petrochemical and
    pharmaceutical industries; as well as strategically targeted
    specialty industries such as power generation, wastewater
    treatment facilities, wind power generation, solar power,
    government projects, pipelines, railroad, ports, and others.
    Motion services all manufacturing and processing industries with
    access to a database of 4.1 million parts.


 


    This group provides customers with supply chain efficiencies,
    achieved through inventory management and logistical solutions
    coupled with Motion Industries’ vast product knowledge and
    system capabilities. The Company meets the MRO demand of a large
    and fragmented market with high levels of service in the areas
    of asset management, inventory and logistics management, product
    application and utilization management processes. A highly
    developed supply chain with vendor partnerships and customer
    connectivity are enhanced by Motion’s leading
    e-business
    capabilities, such as MiSupplierConnect, which provides
    integration between the Company’s information technology
    network and suppliers’ systems, creating numerous benefits
    for both the supplier and customer.


 


    Distribution System.  In North America,
    the Industrial Parts Group operates 458 branches, 7 distribution
    centers and 36 service centers as of December 31, 2009. The
    distribution centers stock and distribute more than 80,000
    different items purchased from more than 460 different
    suppliers. The service centers provide hydraulic, hose and
    mechanical repairs for customers. Approximately 38% of 2009
    total industrial product purchases were made from 10 major
    suppliers. Sales are generated from the Industrial Parts
    Group’s branches located in 47 states, Puerto Rico,
    nine provinces in Canada, and Mexico. Each branch has warehouse
    facilities that stock significant amounts of inventory
    representative of the products used by customers in the
    respective market area served.


 


    Products.  The Industrial Parts Group
    distributes a wide variety of parts and products to its
    customers, primarily industrial concerns, to maintain and
    operate plants, machinery and equipment. Products include such
    items as hoses, belts, bearings, pulleys, pumps, valves, chains,
    gears, sprockets, speed reducers, electric motors, and





    
    5



Table of Contents





    industrial supplies. In recent years, Motion expanded its
    offering to include systems and automation products in response
    to the increasing sophistication of motion control and process
    automation for full systems integration of plant equipment.
    Manufacturing trends and government policies have led to
    opportunities in the “green” and energy-efficient
    product markets, leading to product offerings such as
    energy-efficient motors and drives, recyclable and
    environmentally friendly parts and supplies. The nature of this
    group’s business demands the maintenance of adequate
    inventories and the ability to promptly meet demanding delivery
    requirements. Virtually all of the products distributed are
    installed by the customer or used in plant and facility
    maintenance activities. Most orders are filled immediately from
    existing stock and deliveries are normally made within
    24 hours of receipt of order. The majority of all sales are
    on open account.


 


    Supply Agreements.  Non-exclusive
    distributor agreements are in effect with most of the Industrial
    Parts Group’s suppliers. The terms of these agreements
    vary; however, it has been the experience of the Industrial
    Parts Group that the custom of the trade is to treat such
    agreements as continuing until breached by one party or until
    terminated by mutual consent. The Company has return privileges
    with most of its suppliers, which has protected the Company from
    inventory obsolescence.


 


    Additionally, Motion has ongoing purchase agreements with
    existing customers that represent approximately 40% of the
    annual sales volume.


 


    Segment Data.  In the year ended
    December 31, 2009, sales from the Company’s Industrial
    Parts Group approximated 29% of the Company’s net sales, as
    compared to 32% in 2008 and 31% in 2007. For additional segment
    information, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements set forth beginning on
    page F-1.


 


    Competition.  The industrial parts
    distribution business is highly competitive. The Industrial
    Parts Group competes with other distributors specializing in the
    distribution of such items, general line distributors and others
    who provide similar services. To a lesser extent, the Industrial
    Parts Group competes with manufacturers that sell directly to
    the customer. Further information regarding competition in the
    industry is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the
    Industries in Which We Do Business.”


 



    OFFICE
    PRODUCTS GROUP


 


    The Office Products Group, operated through S. P. Richards
    Company (“S. P. Richards”), a wholly owned subsidiary
    of the Company, is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. S. P.
    Richards is engaged in the wholesale distribution of a broad
    line of office and other business related products that are used
    in the daily operation of businesses, schools, offices and
    institutions. Office products fall into the general categories
    of computer supplies, imaging products, office furniture, office
    machines, general office products, school supplies, cleaning and
    breakroom supplies, and healthcare products.


 


    The Office Products Group is represented in Canada through S. P.
    Richards Canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and
    is headquartered near Toronto, Ontario. S. P. Richards Canada
    services office product resellers throughout Canada from
    locations in Vancouver, Toronto, Calgary, Edmonton and Winnipeg.


 


    Distribution System.  The Office
    Products Group distributes more than 50,000 items to nearly
    6,000 business product resellers throughout the United States
    and Canada from a network of 43 distribution centers. The 2008
    acquisition of Action/Emco Wholesale allowed for the
    consolidation of the Detroit facility into the larger, more
    state of the art facility in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The Company
    also eliminated operational expenses by closing its Hartford
    distribution center. This was achieved by incorporating the
    business serviced out of the facility into the New York and
    Boston distribution centers. In 2009, the Company accelerated
    the installation of new pick to voice technology in its
    distribution centers and will have largely completed that
    rollout by year end 2010. This network of strategically located
    distribution centers provides overnight delivery of the
    Company’s comprehensive product offering. Approximately 45%
    of the Company’s 2009 total office products purchases were
    made from 10 major suppliers.


 


    The Office Products Group sells strictly to resellers of office
    products. These resellers include independently owned office
    product dealers, national office product superstores and mass
    merchants, large contract stationers, mail order companies,
    Internet resellers and college bookstores. Resellers are offered
    comprehensive marketing programs, which include print and
    electronic catalogs and flyers, electronic content for reseller
    websites, and education and training resources.




    
    6



Table of Contents





    Products.  The Office Products Group
    distributes computer supplies including storage media, printer
    supplies and computer accessories; office furniture including
    desks, credenzas, chairs, chair mats, partitions, files and
    computer furniture; office machines including telephones,
    answering machines, calculators, fax machines, multi-function
    copiers, printers, digital cameras, laminators and shredders;
    general office supplies including desk accessories, business
    forms, accounting supplies, binders, filing supplies, report
    covers, writing instruments, envelopes, note pads, copy paper,
    mailroom supplies, drafting supplies and audiovisual supplies;
    school supplies including bulletin boards, teaching aids and art
    supplies; healthcare products; janitorial supplies including
    cleaning supplies, paper towels and trash can liners; and
    breakroom supplies including napkins, utensils, snacks and
    beverages. S. P. Richards has return privileges with most of its
    suppliers, which has protected the Company from inventory
    obsolescence.


 


    While the Company’s inventory includes products from over
    400 of the industry’s leading manufacturers worldwide, S.
    P. Richards also markets ten proprietary brands of items. These
    brands include:
    SPARCOtm,

    an economical line of office supply basics;
    Compucessory®,

    a line of computer accessories;
    Lorelltm,

    a line of office furniture; NATURE
    SAVER®,

    an offering of recycled products; Elite
    Image®,

    a line of new and remanufactured toner cartridges, premium
    papers and labels;
    Integratm,

    a line of writing instruments; Genuine
    Joe®,

    a line of cleaning and breakroom products; and Atlantic
    Breezetm

    and Heat
    Runnertm,

    two lines of climate control products; and Business
    Sourcetm,

    a line of basic office supplies available only to independent
    resellers.


 


    Segment Data.  In each of the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, sales from the
    Company’s Office Products Group were approximately 16% of
    the Company’s net sales. For additional segment
    information, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements set forth beginning on
    page F-1.


 


    Competition.  The office products
    distribution business is highly competitive. In the distribution
    of its product offering to resellers, S. P. Richards competes
    with many other wholesale distributors, as well as with certain
    manufacturers of office products. Further information regarding
    competition in the industry is set forth in “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the
    Industries in Which We Do Business.”


 



    ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC
    MATERIALS GROUP


 


    The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group was formed on
    July 1, 1998 through the acquisition of EIS, Inc.
    (“EIS”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
    headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. This Group distributes
    materials to more than 20,000 electrical and electronic
    manufacturers in North America. With 36 branch locations in the
    United States, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and
    Canada, this Group distributes over 100,000 items, from
    insulating and conductive materials to assembly tools and test
    equipment. EIS also has three manufacturing facilities that
    provide custom fabricated parts.


 


    Distribution System.  The
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group provides distribution
    services to original equipment manufacturers, motor repair shops
    and assembly markets. EIS actively utilizes its
    E-commerce
    Internet site to present its products to customers while
    allowing these on-line visitors to conveniently purchase from a
    large product assortment.


 


    Electrical and electronic products are distributed from
    warehouse locations in major user markets throughout the United
    States, as well as in Mexico and Canada. The Company has return
    privileges with some of its suppliers, which has protected the
    Company from inventory obsolescence.


 


    Products. The Electrical/Electronic Materials
    Group distributes a wide variety of products to customers from
    over 350 vendors. These products include custom fabricated
    flexible materials that are used as components within a
    customer’s manufactured finished product in a variety of
    market segments. Among the products distributed and fabricated
    are such items as magnet wire, conductive materials, insulating
    and shielding materials, assembly tools, test equipment,
    adhesives and chemicals, pressure sensitive tapes, solder,
    anti-static products and thermal management products. To meet
    the prompt delivery demands of its customers, this Group
    maintains large inventories. The majority of sales are on open
    account. Approximately 45% of 2009 total Electrical/Electronic
    Materials Group purchases were made from 10 major suppliers.


 


    Integrated Supply.  The
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group’s integrated supply
    programs are a part of the marketing strategy, as a greater
    number of customers — especially national
    accounts — are given the opportunity





    
    7



Table of Contents





    to participate in this low-cost, high-service capability. The
    Group developed AIMS (Advanced Inventory Management System), a
    totally integrated, highly automated solution for inventory
    management. The Group’s Integrated Supply offering also
    includes SupplyPro, an electronic vending dispenser used to
    eliminate costly tool cribs, or in-house stores, at customer
    warehouse facilities.


 


    Segment Data.  In the year ended
    December 31, 2009, sales from the Company’s
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group approximated 3% of the
    Company’s net sales, as compared to 4% in 2008 and 2007.
    For additional segment information, see Note 11 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements set forth beginning on
    page F-1.


 


    Competition. The electrical and electronics
    distribution business is highly competitive. The
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group competes with other
    distributors specializing in the distribution of electrical and
    electronic products, general line distributors and, to a lesser
    extent, manufacturers that sell directly to customers. Further
    information regarding competition in the industry is set forth
    in “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We Face
    Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do
    Business.”


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    Set forth below are some risks and uncertainties that, if they
    were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our
    business or could cause our actual results to differ materially
    from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements
    in this report and in the other public statements we make. These
    risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are
    subject to include, but are not limited to, the risks of our
    businesses described elsewhere in this report.


 



    We
    Depend On Our Relationships with Our Vendors, and a Disruption
    of Our Vendor Relationships or a Disruption in Our Vendors’
    Operations Could Harm Our Business


 


    As a distributor of automotive replacement parts, industrial
    parts, office products and electrical/electronic materials, our
    business depends on developing and maintaining close and
    productive relationships with our vendors. We depend on our
    vendors to sell us quality products at favorable prices. Many
    factors outside our control may harm our relationships with our
    vendors. For example, financial or operational difficulties with
    a vendor could cause that vendor to increase the cost of the
    products we purchase from it. Vendor consolidation could also
    limit the number of suppliers from which we may purchase
    products and could materially affect the prices we pay for these
    products. Also, consolidation among automotive parts, industrial
    parts or office product suppliers could disrupt our relationship
    with some vendors. In our automotive business, the number of
    vendors could decrease considerably, and the prices charged to
    us by the remaining vendors could increase, as vehicle
    production slows due to the decline in consumer spending and,
    possibly, the failure of one or more of the large automobile
    manufacturers. We would suffer an adverse impact if our vendors
    limit or cancel the return privileges that currently protect us
    from inventory obsolescence. A disruption of our vendor
    relationships or a disruption in our vendors’ operations
    could have a material adverse effect on our business and results
    of operations.


 



    Our
    Business Likely Will Continue To Be Impacted By Difficult
    Economic Conditions


 


    Our business and results of operations may continue to be
    adversely impacted by difficult global, national and local
    economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer,
    commercial and industrial spending. These economic conditions
    began to significantly deteriorate in the fourth quarter of
    2008. Some of the factors that have contributed to reduced
    levels of spending include conditions in the residential real
    estate and mortgage markets, conditions in the automobile
    industry, variability in fuel and other energy costs, labor and
    healthcare costs, access to credit, high unemployment rates, low
    consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. These
    factors had a material adverse effect on demand for the
    Company’s products and services and on the Company’s
    financial condition and operating results in 2009. Continued
    recessionary conditions could result in additional job losses
    and business failures, which could result in a decrease in
    spending
    and/or our
    loss of certain small business and retail customers. In
    addition, continued distress in global credit markets, business
    failures and other recessionary conditions could have a material
    adverse effect on the ability of our suppliers to meet our
    inventory demands. All of these macroeconomic conditions could
    adversely affect our sales growth, margins and overhead, which
    could adversely affect our financial condition and operations.




    
    8



Table of Contents





    The current difficult economic climate has shown signs of
    stabilizing in recent months but is not expected to improve
    significantly in the near term. The resulting low levels of
    consumer, commercial and industrial spending could continue to
    result in weakened demand for the products of all of our
    business groups for the foreseeable future.


 



    Our
    Business Will Be Adversely Affected If Demand for Our Products
    Slows


 


    Our business depends on customer demand for the products that we
    distribute. Demand for these products depends on many factors.


 


    With respect to our automotive group, the primary factors are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher
    vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair;




 



     
        • 

    
    the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle
    manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance
    offered on new vehicles;




 



     
        • 

    
    the number of vehicles in current service that are six years old
    and older, as these vehicles are typically no longer under the
    original vehicle manufacturers’ warranty and will need more
    maintenance and repair than newer vehicles;




 



     
        • 

    
    gas prices, as increases in gas prices may deter consumers from
    using their vehicles;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in travel patterns which may cause consumers to rely
    more on other transportation;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair
    information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by
    governmental regulation, as consumers may be forced to have all
    diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the
    vehicle manufacturers’ dealer networks; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy generally, which in declining conditions may cause
    consumers to defer vehicle maintenance and repair and defer
    discretionary spending.





 


    With respect to our industrial parts group, the primary factors
    are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the level of industrial production and manufacturing capacity
    utilization, as these indices impact the need for industrial
    replacement parts;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the level of the Institute for Supply
    Management’s Purchasing Managers Index, as an index reading
    of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while
    a reading below 50 implies contracting manufacturing
    economy; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.





 


    With respect to our office products group, the primary factors
    are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the level of unemployment especially as it relates to white
    collar and service jobs, as this impacts the need for business
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.





 


    With respect to our electrical/electronic materials group, the
    primary factors are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the level of the Institute for Supply
    Management’s Purchasing Managers Index, as an index reading
    of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while
    a reading below 50 implies contracting manufacturing
    economy; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.





 



    We
    Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do
    Business


 


    The sale of automotive and industrial parts, office products and
    electronic materials is highly competitive and impacted by many
    factors including name recognition, product availability,
    customer service, anticipating changing





    
    9



Table of Contents





    customer preferences, store location, and pricing pressures.
    Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors
    reduce their prices, we may be forced to reduce our prices,
    which could result in a material decline in our revenues and
    earnings. Increased competition among distributors of automotive
    and industrial parts, office products and electronic materials,
    including internet-related initiatives, could cause a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company
    anticipates no decline in competition in any of its four
    business segments in the foreseeable future.


 


    In particular, the market for replacement automotive parts is
    highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of
    competitors. We compete primarily with national and regional
    auto parts chains, independently owned regional and local
    automotive parts and accessories stores, automobile dealers that
    supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories, mass
    merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products
    and regional and local full service automotive repair shops. If
    we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive
    strategies, including internet related initiatives, or if our
    competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose
    customers and our sales and profits may decline.


 



    The
    Impairment of Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect
    Us


 


    The capital and credit markets have experienced varying levels
    of volatility and disruption for more than two years. In late
    2008 and early 2009, volatility and disruptions reached
    unprecedented levels. We have exposure to counterparties with
    which we routinely execute transactions. Such counterparties
    include commercial banks, insurance companies, investment funds
    and other financial institutions, some of which may be exposed
    to bankruptcy or liquidity risks. While we have not realized any
    significant losses to date, a bankruptcy or illiquidity event by
    one of our significant counterparties could materially and
    adversely affect our access to capital, future business and
    results of operations.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B