ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    Set forth below are some risks and uncertainties that, if they
    were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our
    business or could cause our actual results to differ materially
    from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements
    in this report and in the other public statements we make. Our
    forward-looking statements may relate, for example, to our
    future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition,
    economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry
    conditions and demand for our products and services. While we
    believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in
    view of currently available information, you are cautioned not
    to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, due
    in part to the risk factors below.


 


    Forward-looking statements made herein, as well as in materials
    we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public,
    including materials that we make available on our website and
    verbal statements made by senior officers to analysts,
    investors, the media and others, are subject to the safe harbor
    provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they
    are made, and the Company undertakes no duty to update its
    forward-looking statements except as required by law. You are
    advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on
    related subjects in our subsequent
    Forms 10-Q,
    10-K,
    8-K and
    other reports to the SEC.


 



    We
    Depend On Our Relationships with Our Vendors, and a Disruption
    of Our Vendor Relationships or a Disruption in Our Vendors’
    Operations Could Harm Our Business


 


    As a distributor of automotive replacement parts, industrial
    parts, office products and electrical/electronic materials, our
    business depends on developing and maintaining close and
    productive relationships with our vendors. We depend on our
    vendors to sell us quality products at favorable prices. Many
    factors outside our control may harm our relationships with our
    vendors. For example, financial or operational difficulties with
    a vendor could cause that vendor to increase the cost of the
    products we purchase from it. Vendor consolidation could also
    limit the number of suppliers from which we may purchase
    products and could materially affect the prices we pay for these
    products. Also, consolidation among automotive parts or
    industrial parts and office product suppliers could disrupt our
    relationship with some vendors. In our automotive business, the
    number of vendors could decrease considerably, and the prices
    charged to us by the remaining vendors could increase, as
    vehicle production slows due to the decline in consumer spending
    and, possibly, the failure of one or more of the large
    automobile manufacturers. We would suffer an adverse impact if
    our vendors limit or cancel the return privileges that currently
    protect us from inventory obsolescence. A disruption of our
    vendor relationships or a disruption in our vendors’
    operations could have a material adverse effect on our business
    and results of operations.


 



    Our
    Business Likely Will Continue To Be Impacted By Declining
    Economic Conditions


 


    Our business and results of operations may continue to be
    adversely impacted by declining global, national and local
    economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer,
    commercial and industrial spending. These economic conditions
    have deteriorated significantly in recent months. Some of the
    factors that have contributed to recent reduced levels of
    spending include conditions in the residential real estate and
    mortgage markets, conditions in the automobile industry,
    increases in fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare
    costs, access to credit, high unemployment rates, declining
    consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. These
    factors had a material adverse effect on demand for the
    Company’s products and services and on the Company’s
    financial condition and operating results in the fourth quarter
    of 2008. The current difficult economic climate is not expected
    to improve significantly in the near term, and the resulting low
    levels of consumer, commercial and industrial spending could
    continue to result in weakened demand for the products of all of
    our business groups for the foreseeable future.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Our
    Business Will Be Adversely Affected If Demand for Our Products
    Slows


 


    Our business depends on customer demand for the products that we
    distribute. Demand for these products depends on many factors.


 


    With respect to our automotive group, the primary factors are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher
    vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair;




 



     
        • 

    
    the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle
    manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance
    offered on new vehicles;




 



     
        • 

    
    the number of vehicles in current service that are six years old
    and older, as these vehicles are typically no longer under the
    original vehicle manufacturers’ warranty and will need more
    maintenance and repair than newer vehicles;




 



     
        • 

    
    gas prices, as increases in gas prices may deter consumers from
    using their vehicles;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in travel patterns which may cause consumers to rely
    more on other transportation;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair
    information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by
    governmental regulation, as consumers may be forced to have all
    diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the
    vehicle manufacturers’ dealer networks; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy generally.





 


    With respect to our industrial parts group, the primary factors
    are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the level of industrial production and manufacturing capacity
    utilization, as these indices impact the need for industrial
    replacement parts;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the level of the Institute for Supply
    Management’s Purchasing Managers Index, as an index reading
    of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while
    a reading below 50 implies contracting manufacturing economy; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.





 


    With respect to our office products group, the primary factors
    are :


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the level of unemployment especially as it relates to white
    collar and service jobs, as this impacts the need for business
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.





 


    With respect to our electrical/electronic materials group, the
    primary factors are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the level of the Institute for Supply
    Management’s Purchasing Managers Index, as an index reading
    of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while
    a reading below 50 implies contracting manufacturing economy; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.





 



    We
    Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do
    Business


 


    The sale of automotive and industrial parts, office products and
    electronic materials is highly competitive and impacted by many
    factors including name recognition, product availability,
    customer service, anticipating changing customer preferences,
    store location, and pricing pressures. Because we seek to offer
    competitive prices, if our competitors reduce their prices, we
    may be forced to reduce our prices, which could result in a
    material decline in our revenues and earnings. Increased
    competition among distributors of automotive and industrial
    parts, office products and electronic materials, including
    internet-related initiatives, could cause a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    In particular, the market for replacement automotive parts is
    highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of
    competitors. We compete primarily with national and regional
    auto parts chains, independently owned regional and local
    automotive parts and accessories stores, automobile dealers that
    supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories, mass
    merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products
    and regional and local full service automotive repair shops. If
    we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive
    strategies, including internet related initiatives, or if our
    competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose
    customers and our sales and profits may decline.


 



    The
    Impairment of Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect
    Us


 


    The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility
    and disruption for more than twelve months. In the past several
    months, volatility and disruptions have increased and recently
    reached unprecedented levels. We have exposure to counterparties
    with which we routinely execute transactions. Such
    counterparties include commercial banks, insurance companies,
    investment funds and other financial institutions, some of which
    may be exposed to bankruptcy or liquidity risks. While we have
    not realized any significant losses to date, a bankruptcy or
    illiquidity event by one of our significant counterparties could
    materially and adversely affect our access to capital, future
    business and results of operations.







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B