Item 1A. Risk Factors — We
    Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do
    Business.”


 


    NAPA.  The Company is a member of the
    National Automotive Parts Association, a voluntary association
    formed in 1925 to provide nationwide distribution of automotive
    replacement parts. NAPA, which neither buys nor





    
    4



Table of Contents





    sells automotive parts, functions as a trade association whose
    members in 2010 operated 64 distribution centers located
    throughout the United States, 58 of which were owned and
    operated by the Company. NAPA develops marketing concepts and
    programs that may be used by its members. It is not involved in
    the chain of distribution.


 


    Among the automotive lines that each NAPA member purchases and
    distributes are certain lines designated, cataloged, advertised
    and promoted as “NAPA” lines. The members are not
    required to purchase any specific quantity of parts so
    designated and may, and do, purchase competitive lines from
    other supply sources.


 


    The Company and the other NAPA members use the federally
    registered trademark
    NAPA®

    as part of the trade name of their distribution centers and
    parts stores. The Company contributes to NAPA’s national
    advertising program, which is designed to increase public
    recognition of the NAPA name and to promote NAPA product lines.


 


    The Company is a party, together with other members of NAPA and
    NAPA itself, to a consent decree entered by the Federal District
    Court in Detroit, Michigan, on May 4, 1954. The consent
    decree enjoins certain practices under the federal antitrust
    laws, including the use of exclusive agreements with
    manufacturers of automotive parts, allocation or division of
    territories among several NAPA members, fixing of prices or
    terms of sale for such parts among such members, and agreements
    to adhere to any uniform policy in selecting parts customers or
    determining the number and location of, or arrangements with,
    auto parts customers.


 



    INDUSTRIAL
    PARTS GROUP


 


    The Industrial Parts Group is operated as Motion Industries,
    Inc. (“Motion”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
    Company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. Motion distributes
    industrial replacement parts and related supplies such as
    bearings, mechanical and electrical power transmission,
    industrial automation, hose, hydraulic and pneumatic components,
    industrial supplies and material handling products to MRO
    (maintenance, repair and operation) and OEM (original equipment
    manufacturer) customers throughout the United States, Canada and
    Mexico.


 


    In Canada, industrial parts are distributed by Motion Industries
    (Canada), Inc. (“Motion Canada”) and BC Bearing
    Engineers Limited. The Mexican market is served by Motion Mexico
    S de RL de CV (“Motion Mexico”). These organizations
    operate in the Company’s North American structure.


 


    In March 2010, the Company acquired BC Bearing Engineers Limited
    and its wholly-owned subsidiary, US Bearings & Things,
    Inc., a long-established bearing and power transmission
    distributor. BC Bearing Engineers joined Motion Industries with
    22 locations throughout western Canada, and
    U.S. Bearings & Things with 21 branches in
    the western United States. In 2010, the Company also acquired
    TechCan Services, a full-service asset repair, fabrication and
    engineering business located in Alberta, Canada.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the Industrial Parts Group served
    more than 140,000 customers in all types of industries located
    throughout North America, including the food, forest products,
    primary metal, paper, mining, automotive, petrochemical and
    pharmaceutical industries; as well as strategically targeted
    specialty industries such as power generation, wastewater
    treatment facilities, wind power generation, solar power,
    government projects, pipelines, railroad, ports, and others.
    Motion services all manufacturing and processing industries with
    access to a database of 4.3 million parts. Additionally,
    late in 2010, Motion Industries was awarded a Government
    Services Administration (GSA) schedule becoming a supplier to
    provide government agencies in the U.S. access to more than
    985,000 product and replacement parts.


 


    This group provides customers with supply chain efficiencies,
    achieved through inventory management and logistical solutions
    coupled with Motion Industries’ vast product knowledge and
    system capabilities. The Company meets the MRO demand of a large
    and fragmented market with high levels of service in the areas
    of asset management, inventory and logistics management, product
    application and utilization management processes. A highly
    developed supply chain with vendor partnerships and customer
    connectivity are enhanced by Motion’s leading
    e-business
    capabilities, such as MiSupplierConnect, which provides
    integration between the Company’s information technology
    network and suppliers’ systems, creating numerous benefits
    for both the supplier and customer.




    
    5



Table of Contents





    Distribution System.  In North America,
    the Industrial Parts Group operated 488 branches, 9 distribution
    centers and 46 service centers as of December 31, 2010. The
    distribution centers stock and distribute more than 92,000
    different items purchased from more than 468 different
    suppliers. The service centers provide hydraulic, hose and
    mechanical repairs for customers. Approximately 37% of 2010
    total industrial product purchases were made from 10 major
    suppliers. Sales are generated from the Industrial Parts
    Group’s branches located in 47 states, Puerto Rico,
    nine provinces in Canada, and Mexico. Each branch has warehouse
    facilities that stock significant amounts of inventory
    representative of the products used by customers in the
    respective market area served.


 


    Products.  The Industrial Parts Group
    distributes a wide variety of parts and products to its
    customers, primarily industrial concerns. Products include such
    items as hoses, belts, bearings, pulleys, pumps, valves, chains,
    gears, sprockets, speed reducers, electric motors, and
    industrial supplies. In recent years, Motion expanded its
    offering to include systems and automation products in response
    to the increasing sophistication of motion control and process
    automation for full systems integration of plant equipment.
    Manufacturing trends and government policies have led to
    opportunities in the “green” and energy-efficient
    product markets, leading to product offerings such as
    energy-efficient motors and drives, recyclable and
    environmentally friendly parts and supplies. The nature of this
    group’s business demands the maintenance of adequate
    inventories and the ability to promptly meet demanding delivery
    requirements. Virtually all of the products distributed are
    installed by the customer or used in plant and facility
    maintenance activities. Most orders are filled immediately from
    existing stock and deliveries are normally made within
    24 hours of receipt of order. The majority of all sales are
    on open account. Motion has ongoing purchase agreements with
    existing customers that represent approximately 40% of the
    annual sales volume.


 


    Supply Agreements.  Non-exclusive
    distributor agreements are in effect with most of the Industrial
    Parts Group’s suppliers. The terms of these agreements
    vary; however, it has been the experience of the Industrial
    Parts Group that the custom of the trade is to treat such
    agreements as continuing until breached by one party or until
    terminated by mutual consent. The Company has return privileges
    with most of its suppliers, which has protected the Company from
    inventory obsolescence.


 


    Segment Data.  In the year ended
    December 31, 2010, sales from the Company’s Industrial
    Parts Group approximated 31% of the Company’s net sales, as
    compared to 29% in 2009 and 32% in 2008. For additional segment
    information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements set forth beginning on
    page F-1.


 


    Competition.  The industrial parts
    distribution business is highly competitive. The Industrial
    Parts Group competes with other distributors specializing in the
    distribution of such items, general line distributors and others
    who provide similar services. To a lesser extent, the Industrial
    Parts Group competes with manufacturers that sell directly to
    the customer. The Industrial Parts Group competes primarily on
    the breadth of product offerings, service and price. Further
    information regarding competition in the industry is set forth
    in “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We Face
    Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do
    Business.”


 



    OFFICE
    PRODUCTS GROUP


 


    The Office Products Group, operated through S. P. Richards
    Company (“S. P. Richards”), a wholly owned subsidiary
    of the Company, is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. S. P.
    Richards is engaged in the wholesale distribution of a broad
    line of office and other business related products to business
    product resellers that are used in the daily operation of
    businesses, schools, offices and other institutions. Office
    products fall into the general categories of computer supplies,
    imaging products, office furniture, office machines, general
    office products, school supplies, cleaning and breakroom
    supplies, and healthcare products.


 


    The Office Products Group is represented in Canada through S. P.
    Richards Canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
    headquartered near Toronto, Ontario. S. P. Richards Canada
    services office product resellers throughout Canada from
    locations in Vancouver, Toronto, Calgary, Edmonton and Winnipeg.


 


    Distribution System.  The Office
    Products Group distributes more than 50,000 items to nearly
    4,000 business product resellers throughout the United States
    and Canada from a network of 43 distribution centers. In 2010,
    the Company completed the installation of new pick to voice
    technology in all U.S. distribution centers. In addition,
    new conveyors with inline scales and automated sortation were
    installed in four distribution centers and energy





    
    6



Table of Contents





    conservation projects creating better lighting, lower energy
    usage and usage of motion sensitive lighting were completed in
    12 distribution centers. This network of strategically located
    distribution centers provides overnight delivery of the
    Company’s comprehensive product offering. Approximately 50%
    of the Company’s 2010 total office products purchases were
    made from 10 major suppliers.


 


    The Office Products Group sells strictly to resellers of office
    products. These resellers include independently owned office
    product dealers, national office product superstores and mass
    merchants, large contract stationers, mail order companies,
    Internet resellers and college bookstores. Resellers are offered
    comprehensive marketing programs, which include print and
    electronic catalogs and flyers, electronic content for reseller
    websites, and education and training resources.


 


    Products.  The Office Products Group
    distributes computer supplies including storage media, printer
    supplies and computer accessories; office furniture including
    desks, credenzas, chairs, chair mats, partitions, files and
    computer furniture; office machines including telephones,
    answering machines, calculators, fax machines, multi-function
    copiers, printers, digital cameras, laminators and shredders;
    general office supplies including desk accessories, business
    forms, accounting supplies, binders, filing supplies, report
    covers, writing instruments, envelopes, note pads, copy paper,
    mailroom supplies, drafting supplies and audiovisual supplies;
    school supplies including bulletin boards, teaching aids and art
    supplies; healthcare products; janitorial supplies including
    cleaning supplies, paper towels and trash can liners; and
    breakroom supplies including napkins, utensils, snacks and
    beverages. S. P. Richards has return privileges with most of its
    suppliers, which have protected the Company from inventory
    obsolescence.


 


    While the Company’s inventory includes products from over
    400 of the industry’s leading manufacturers worldwide, S.
    P. Richards also markets products under its eight proprietary
    brands. These brands include:
    SPARCOtm,

    an economical line of office supply basics;
    Compucessory®,

    a line of computer accessories;
    Lorelltm,

    a line of office furniture; NATURE
    SAVER®,

    an offering of recycled products; Elite
    Image®,

    a line of new and remanufactured toner cartridges, premium
    papers and labels;
    Integratm,

    a line of writing instruments; Genuine
    Joe®,

    a line of cleaning and breakroom products; and Business
    Sourcetm,

    a line of basic office supplies available only to independent
    resellers. The Company launched its
    FurnitureAdvantagetm

    program in 2010 which provides resellers with an additional
    6,000 furniture items made available to consumers in 7 to
    10 days. The Company also introduced
    PrintSmarttm,

    a fully featured managed print solution allowing resellers to
    serve this growing segment of the market.


 


    Segment Data.  In the year ended
    December 31, 2010, sales from the Company’s Office
    Products Group approximated 15% of the Company’s net sales,
    as compared to 16% in 2009 and 2008. For additional segment
    information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements set forth beginning on
    page F-1.


 


    Competition.  The office products
    distribution business is highly competitive. In the distribution
    of its product offering to resellers, S. P. Richards competes
    with many other wholesale distributors, as well as with certain
    manufacturers of office products. S. P. Richards competes
    primarily on price, product offerings, service, marketing
    programs and brand recognition. Further information regarding
    competition in the industry is set forth in “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the
    Industries in Which We Do Business.”


 



    ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC
    MATERIALS GROUP


 


    The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group was formed on
    July 1, 1998 through the acquisition of EIS, Inc.
    (“EIS”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
    headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. This Group distributes
    materials to more than 20,000 electrical and electronic
    manufacturers in North America. With 33 branch locations in the
    United States, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and
    Canada, this Group distributes over 100,000 items including
    wire and cable, insulating and conductive materials, assembly
    tools and test equipment. EIS also has three manufacturing
    facilities that provide custom fabricated parts.


 


    Distribution System.  The
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group provides distribution
    services to OEM’s, motor repair shops and a broad variety
    of industrial assembly markets. EIS actively utilizes its
    e-commerce
    Internet site to present its products to customers while
    allowing these on-line visitors to conveniently purchase from a
    large product assortment.




    
    7



Table of Contents





    Electrical and electronic products are distributed from
    warehouse locations in major user markets throughout the United
    States, as well as in Mexico and Canada. The Company has return
    privileges with some of its suppliers, which have protected the
    Company from inventory obsolescence.


 


    Products.  The Electrical/Electronic
    Materials Group distributes a wide variety of products to
    customers from over 350 vendors. These products include custom
    fabricated flexible materials that are used as components within
    a customer’s manufactured finished product in a variety of
    market segments. Among the products distributed and fabricated
    are such items as magnet wire, conductive materials, electrical
    wire and cable, insulating and shielding materials, assembly
    tools, test equipment, adhesives and chemicals, pressure
    sensitive tapes, solder, anti-static products and thermal
    management products. To meet the prompt delivery demands of its
    customers, this Group maintains large inventories. The majority
    of sales are on open account. Approximately 45% of 2010 total
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group purchases were made from
    10 major suppliers.


 


    Integrated Supply.  The
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group’s integrated supply
    programs are a part of the marketing strategy, as a greater
    number of customers — especially national
    accounts — are given the opportunity to participate in
    this low-cost, high-service capability. The Group developed AIMS
    (Advanced Inventory Management System), a totally integrated,
    highly automated solution for inventory management. The
    Group’s Integrated Supply offering also includes SupplyPro,
    an electronic vending dispenser used to eliminate costly tool
    cribs, or in-house stores, at customer warehouse facilities.


 


    Segment Data.  In the year ended
    December 31, 2010, sales from the Company’s
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group approximated 4% of the
    Company’s net sales, as compared to 3% in 2009 and 4% in
    2008. For additional segment information, see Note 10 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth beginning
    on
    page F-1.


 


    Competition.  The electrical and
    electronics distribution business is highly competitive. The
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group competes with other
    distributors specializing in the distribution of electrical and
    electronic products, general line distributors and, to a lesser
    extent, manufacturers that sell directly to customers. EIS
    competes primarily on factors of price, product offerings and
    service. Further information regarding competition in the
    industry is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the
    Industries in Which We Do Business.”







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 



    FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS


 


    Some statements in this report, as well as in other materials we
    file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public and in
    materials that we make available on our website, constitute
    forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor
    provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995. Senior officers may also make verbal statements to
    analysts, investors, the media and others that are
    forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may relate, for
    example, to future operations, prospects, strategies, financial
    condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings),
    industry conditions and demand for our products and services.
    The Company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve
    risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our
    expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently
    available information, you are cautioned not to place undue
    reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or
    events may differ materially from those indicated in our
    forward-looking statements as a result of various important
    factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those
    discussed below.


 


    Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are
    made, and the Company undertakes no duty to update its
    forward-looking statements except as required by law. You are
    advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on
    related subjects in our subsequent
    Forms 10-Q,
    Form 8-K
    and other reports to the SEC.


 


    Set forth below are the material risks and uncertainties that,
    if they were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our
    business or could cause our actual results to differ materially
    from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements
    in this report and in the other public statements we make.
    Please be aware that these risks may change over time and other
    risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may
    emerge at any





    
    8



Table of Contents





    time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to
    which they may affect our business, financial condition, results
    of operations or the trading price of our securities.


 



    Our
    business will be adversely affected if demand for our products
    slows.


 


    Our business depends on customer demand for the products that we
    distribute. Demand for these products depends on many factors.


 


    With respect to our automotive group, the primary factors are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher
    vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair;




 



     
        • 

    
    the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle
    manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance
    offered on new vehicles;




 



     
        • 

    
    the number of vehicles in current service that are six years old
    and older, as these vehicles are typically no longer under the
    original vehicle manufacturers’ warranty and will need more
    maintenance and repair than newer vehicles;




 



     
        • 

    
    gas prices, as increases in gas prices may deter consumers from
    using their vehicles;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in travel patterns which may cause consumers to rely
    more on other transportation;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair
    information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by
    governmental regulation, as consumers may be forced to have all
    diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the
    vehicle manufacturers’ dealer networks; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy generally, which in declining conditions may cause
    consumers to defer vehicle maintenance and repair and defer
    discretionary spending.





 


    With respect to our industrial parts group, the primary factors
    are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the level of industrial production and manufacturing capacity
    utilization, as these indices reflect the need for industrial
    replacement parts;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in manufacturing reflected in the level of the Institute
    for Supply Management’s Purchasing Managers Index, as an
    index reading of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing
    economy, while a reading below 50 implies contracting
    manufacturing economy;




 



     
        • 

    
    the consolidation of certain of our manufacturing customers and
    the trend of manufacturing operations being moved
    overseas; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.





 


    With respect to our office products group, the primary factors
    are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the level of unemployment, especially as it relates to white
    collar and service jobs, as this impacts the need for business
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.





 


    With respect to our electrical/electronic materials group, the
    primary factors are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in manufacturing reflected in the level of the Institute
    for Supply Management’s Purchasing Managers Index, as an
    index reading of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing
    economy, while a reading below 50 implies contracting
    manufacturing economy; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.







    
    9



Table of Contents




 



    Uncertainty
    and/or deterioration in general macro-economic conditions,
    including unemployment, inflation or deflation, high energy
    costs, uncertain credit markets, or other economic conditions,
    could have a negative impact on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Our business and operating results may in the future be
    adversely affected by uncertain global economic conditions,
    including instability in credit markets, declining consumer and
    business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile
    exchange rates, and other challenges that could affect the
    global economy. Both our commercial and retail customers may
    experience deterioration of their financial resources, which
    could result in existing or potential customers delaying or
    canceling plans to purchase our products. Our vendors could
    experience similar conditions, which could impact their ability
    to fulfill their obligations to us. Future weakness in the
    global economy could adversely affect our results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows in future periods.


 



    We
    depend on our relationships with our vendors, and a disruption
    of our vendor relationships or a disruption in our vendors’
    operations could harm our business.


 


    As a distributor of automotive replacement parts, industrial
    parts, office products and electrical/electronic materials, our
    business depends on developing and maintaining close and
    productive relationships with our vendors. We depend on our
    vendors to sell us quality products at favorable prices. Many
    factors outside our control, including, without limitation, raw
    material shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity, labor
    disputes, transportation disruptions or weather conditions,
    could adversely affect our vendors’ ability to deliver to
    us quality merchandise at favorable prices in a timely manner.
    Furthermore, financial or operational difficulties with a
    particular vendor could cause that vendor to increase the cost
    of the products or decrease the quality of the products we
    purchase from it. Vendor consolidation could also limit the
    number of suppliers from which we may purchase products and
    could materially affect the prices we pay for these products. In
    our automotive business, the number of vendors could decrease
    considerably, and the prices charged to us by the remaining
    vendors could increase, to the extent that vehicle production
    slows due to a decline in consumer spending and, possibly, the
    failure of one or more of the large automobile manufacturers. We
    would suffer an adverse impact if our vendors limit or cancel
    the return privileges that currently protect us from inventory
    obsolescence.


 



    We
    face substantial competition in the industries in which we do
    business.


 


    The sale of automotive and industrial parts, office products and
    electrical materials is highly competitive and impacted by many
    factors, including name recognition, product availability,
    customer service, anticipating changing customer preferences,
    store location, and pricing pressures. Because we seek to offer
    competitive prices, if our competitors reduce their prices, we
    may be forced to reduce our prices, which could result in a
    material decline in our revenues and earnings. Increased
    competition among distributors of automotive and industrial
    parts, office products and electronic materials, including
    internet-related initiatives, could cause a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations. The Company anticipates no
    decline in competition in any of its four business segments in
    the foreseeable future.


 


    In particular, the market for replacement automotive parts is
    highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of
    competitors. We compete primarily with national and regional
    auto parts chains, independently owned regional and local
    automotive parts and accessories stores, automobile dealers that
    supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories, mass
    merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products
    and regional and local full service automotive repair shops.
    Furthermore, the automotive aftermarket has experienced
    consolidation in recent years. Consolidation among our
    competitors could further enhance their financial position,
    provide them with the ability to provide more competitive prices
    to customers for whom we compete, and allow them to achieve
    increased efficiencies in their consolidated operations that
    enable them to more effectively compete for customers. If we are
    unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies
    or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we
    could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline.




    
    10



Table of Contents






    We may
    not be able to successfully implement our business initiatives
    in each of our four business segments to grow our sales and
    earnings, which could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    We have implemented numerous initiatives in each of our four
    business segments to grow sales and earnings, including the
    introduction of new and expanded product lines, geographic
    expansion (including acquisitions), sales to new markets,
    enhanced customer marketing programs and a variety of gross
    margin and cost savings initiatives. If we are unable to
    implement these initiatives efficiently and effectively, or if
    these initiatives are unsuccessful, our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows could be
    adversely affected.


 


    Successful implementation of these initiatives also depends on
    factors specific to the automotive parts industry and the other
    industries in which we operate and numerous other factors that
    may be beyond our control. In addition to the other risk factors
    contained in this “Item 1A. Risk Factors,”
    adverse changes in the following factors could undermine our
    business initiatives and have a material adverse affect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the competitive environment in our end markets may force us to
    reduce prices below our desired pricing level or increase
    promotional spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and to
    meet customers’ needs for our products in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to successfully enter new markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to effectively manage our costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to continue to grow through acquisitions and
    successfully integrate acquired businesses in our existing
    operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the economy in general.





 



    Because
    we are involved in litigation from time to time and are subject
    to numerous laws and governmental regulations, we could incur
    substantial judgments, fines, legal fees and other
    costs.


 


    We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from
    customers, employees or other third parties for various actions.
    The damages sought against us in some of these litigation
    proceedings are substantial. Although we maintain liability
    insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the
    claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or
    if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have
    a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Additionally, we are subject to numerous federal, state and
    local laws and governmental regulations relating to
    environmental protection, product quality standards, building
    and zoning requirements, as well as employment law matters. If
    we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations,
    we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or
    sanctions, while incurring substantial legal fees and costs. In
    addition, our capital expenses could increase due to remediation
    measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant
    with any existing or future laws or regulations.







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B