ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.



Forward-Looking Statements


Some statements in this report, as well as in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise
release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute
forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts,
investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may relate,
for example, to our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic
performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and
services. The Company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of
currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our
forward-looking statements. Actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated as
a result of various important factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those set
forth below and in other documents that we file with the SEC.


Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no
duty to update its forward-looking statements except as required by law. You are advised, however,
to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and other
reports to the SEC.



Risks Relating to Our Company



We Depend on Our Relationships with Our Vendors.


As a distributor of automotive replacement parts, industrial parts, office products and
electrical/electronic materials, our business depends on developing and maintaining close and
productive relationships with our vendors. We depend on our vendors to sell us quality products at
favorable prices. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships. For example,
financial or operational difficulties with a vendor could cause that vendor to increase the cost of
the products we purchase from it. Vendor consolidation could also limit the number of suppliers
from which we may purchase products and could materially affect the prices we pay for these
products. Also, consolidation among automotive parts or industrial parts and office product
suppliers could disrupt our relationship with some vendors. A disruption of our vendor
relationships or a disruption in our vendors’ operations could have a material adverse effect on
our business and results of operations.



Our Business and Results of Operations Could Be Impacted by Certain Laws.


We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the
operation of our business, such as laws and regulations relating to environmental and employment
matters, as well as changes in accounting and taxation guidance. Because such laws and regulations
are subject to change without notice, we cannot anticipate the potential costs of compliance. On
the other hand, if we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject
to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions. There can be no assurance that the cost of
compliance, or a material failure by us to comply, with these laws and regulations will not have a
material adverse effect on us in the future.



Risks Relating to Our Industry



Our Business May Be Impacted by General Economic Conditions and Local, National and Global Events.


Our business and results of operations also may be impacted by general economic conditions,
conditions in local markets or other factors that we cannot control, including: job growth and
unemployment conditions, industrial output and capacity and capital expenditures, reduction in
manufacturing capacity in our targeted geographic markets due to consolidation and the transfer of
manufacturing capacity to foreign countries, weather, terrorist acts, pricing pressures of our
competitors and customers, shortages of fuel or interruptions in transportation systems, labor
strikes, work stoppages, or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor in
the major markets where we operate, changes in interest rates, inflation or currency exchange
rates, changes in accounting policies and practices and changes in regulatory policies and
practices.



 




 





Our Business May Be Materially Affected If Demand for Our Products Slows.


Our business depends on customer demand for the products that we distribute. Demand for these
products depends on many factors. With respect to our automotive group, the primary factors are:
the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher vehicle mileage increases the need for
maintenance and repair; the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle
manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance offered on new vehicles; the number of
vehicles in current service that are six years old and older, as these vehicles are typically no
longer under the original vehicle manufacturers’ warranty and will need more maintenance and repair
than newer vehicles; restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by
the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation; and the economy generally.



We Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do Business.


The industries in which we do business are highly competitive. The sale of automotive and
industrial parts, office products and electronic materials is highly competitive and impacted by
many factors including name recognition, product availability, customer service, anticipating
changing customer preferences, store location, and pricing pressures. Increased competition among
distributors of automotive and industrial parts, office products and electronic materials,
including internet-related initiatives, could cause a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.


In particular, the market for replacement automotive parts is highly competitive and subjects us to
a wide variety of competitors. We compete primarily with national and regional auto parts chains,
independently owned regional and local automotive parts and accessories stores, automobile dealers
that supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories, mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs
that sell automotive products and regional and local full service automotive repair shops. If we
are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, including internet related
initiatives, or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and
our sales and profits may decline.



ITEM 1B