 of this Form 10-K.InventoryThe nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak holiday selling season when we, along with other retailers, generally build up inventory levels. We maintain a large part of our inventory in distribution centers. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes or colors) and we primarily use promotions and markdowns to clear merchandise. Also see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed” and "Risk Factors—If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected" in  of this Form 10-K.EmployeesAs of February 1, 2014, we had a workforce of approximately 137,000 employees, which includes a combination of part-time and full-time employees. We also hire seasonal employees, primarily during the peak end-of-year holiday period. To remain competitive in the apparel retail industry, we must attract, develop, and retain skilled employees in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. Competition for such personnel is intense. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—The failure to attract and retain key personnel could have an adverse impact on our results of operations” in . Risk Factors.Our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. In addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.Global economic conditions and the impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations.The Company’s performance is subject to global economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. Some of the factors influencing consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty.Adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we and our franchisees sell our products could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.Our business is highly competitive.The global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We and our franchisees compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. We face a variety of competitive challenges including:•anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands;•attracting customer traffic both in stores and online;•competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value;•maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments and geographic locations;•developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes; and•sourcing merchandise efficiently.If we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the United States or internationally, our results of operations would be adversely affected.We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed.Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. However, lead times for many of our design and purchasing decisions may be long, which makes it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. The global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. To the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets or fail to execute trends and deliver product to market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results.5If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected.Fluctuations in the global apparel retail markets impacts the levels of inventory owned by apparel retailers, as merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by customer purchases. In addition, the nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. We must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. In the past, we have not always predicted our customers’ preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. If sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins.We have key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and increase the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain, including our seamless inventory and responsive supply chain initiatives.  Aspects of seamless inventory include more timely matching of product supply and demand across markets and channels to reduce stranded inventory.  Aspects of responsive supply chain include more vendor fabric platforming, product demand testing, and in-season rapid response to demand.  These initiatives involve significant systems and operational changes and we have limited experience operating in this manner. If we are unable to implement these initiatives successfully, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, and our operating results could be adversely affected.Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful.Our current strategies include moving to a global brand structure and pursuing continued international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. Beginning in fiscal 2013, we combined all channels and geographies under one global leader for each of the Gap, Banana Republic, and Old Navy brands. Each global brand president oversees their brand's specialty, outlet, online, and franchise operations. In addition, we currently plan to open additional Old Navy stores outside of North America, open additional Gap stores in China, open additional international outlet stores, and continue to grow online sales internationally. We have limited experience operating in some of these locations. In many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. In addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have experience. Moreover, consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations, and as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected.In addition, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets, and liabilities generated or incurred outside the U.S. Although we use instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in offsetting all of the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements and generally only delay the impact of adverse foreign currency rate movements on our business and financial results. Our business, including our costs and supply chain, is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing.Independent third parties manufacture all of our products for us. As a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products.6If we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. Moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. Any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. In addition, certain countries represent a larger portion of our global sourcing. For example, approximately 28 percent of our merchandise, by dollar value, is purchased from China. Accordingly, any delays in production and added costs in this country could have a more significant impact on our results of operations.Because independent vendors manufacture all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. Manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins.Risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our Code of Vendor Conduct, could harm our business.We purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors in many different countries and we require those vendors to adhere to a Code of Vendor Conduct which includes environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. From time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise into various countries, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. Significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain.Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the United States and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. In addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from U.S. domestic producers. We are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. Our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions.7Our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands.We enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores in many countries around the world. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. The effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. In addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as franchisee financial stability and the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. Other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, foreign exchange rates, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and political instability. Moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. Failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation.The market for prime real estate is competitive.Our ability to effectively obtain real estate - to open new stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices nationally and internationally - depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. We also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. In addition, from time to time, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. Failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the United States and internationally. This could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. Any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins.Our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. A variety of factors affect comparable sales or margins, including apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, foreign currency fluctuations, and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. Our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly, and monthly basis. Over the past 24 months, our reported monthly comparable sales have ranged from an increase of 10 percent in July 2012 to a decrease of 3 percent in September 2013. Over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 40.3 percent in fiscal 2009 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2011. In addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 13.4 percent in fiscal 2010 to a low of 9.9 percent in fiscal 2011.Our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. Failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline.8Changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial results or our business initiatives.In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, given favorable market conditions and our history of generating consistent and strong operating cash flow, we made the strategic decision to issue debt. In April 2011, we issued $1.25 billion  aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due April 12, 2021. As a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semiannually on the notes. We also entered into a 15 billion Japanese yen ($147 million as of February 1, 2014), four-year term loan due January 2018.Our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. In this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operations in excess of $1 billion per year for the past decade and ended fiscal 2013 with $1.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. We are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $500 million revolving credit facility. We continue to target a cash balance of about $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. However, if our cash flows from operations decline significantly, we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. In addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings.We remain committed to maintaining a strong financial profile with ample liquidity.For further information on our debt and credit facilities, see Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes 5 and 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K.The failure to attract and retain key personnel could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. In addition, several of our strategic initiatives, including our technology initiatives and supply chain initiatives require that we hire and/or develop employees with appropriate experience. Competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. If we are unable to retain, attract, and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, or if changes to our organizational structure, operating results, or business model adversely affect morale or retention, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role in our senior management positions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our investments in omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate.One of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. Examples of our recent omni-channel initiatives include our ship-from-store and reserve-in-store programs, in which store inventory can be used to satisfy online demand. We continue to explore additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. These initiatives involve significant investments in IT systems and significant operational changes. In addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives. If the implementation of our omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni-channel investments that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected. 9Updates or changes to our IT systems may disrupt operations.We continue to evaluate and implement upgrades and changes to our IT systems, some of which are significant. Upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our IT initiatives. However, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. IT system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We are subject to data security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures.As part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain confidential information about our customers, our employees, and other third parties. Our business employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, job applicants, and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. Despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of consumer confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation.Our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, or other catastrophic events.Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather and climate conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, and other political instability; or other catastrophic events, such as disasters occurring at our vendors' manufacturing facilities, whether occurring in the United States or internationally, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our franchisees, or the operations of one or more of our vendors. In particular, these types of events could impact our product supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability or the ability of our franchisees or other third parties to operate our stores or websites. In addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally. Disasters occurring at our vendors’ manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers’ perception of our brands. To the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected.10Changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Item 1B