Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Readers are strongly encouraged to consider
those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. The Company does not undertake to update
any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments.

 

Part I

 


Item 1.Business


 

This discussion of
the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified
by reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item
7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference
in partial response to this Item 1. Garmin has identified five reportable segments for external reporting purposes: Auto/Mobile,
Aviation, Marine, Outdoor and Fitness. There are three operating segments (Auto PND, Auto OEM and Mobile) that are not reported
separately but are aggregated within the Auto/Mobile reportable segment. Each operating segment is individually reviewed and evaluated
by our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses performance of each segment individually. The
segment and geographic information included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” under Note 8
is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1.

 

Garmin was incorporated
in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (“Garmin Cayman”). Garmin
Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate
a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company
of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation
of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).
Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common
share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (CHF)
per share, of Garmin. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.

 

Garmin’s annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by
Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through
the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC
maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

 



    3
     
    

 

The reference to Garmin’s
website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information
should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K.

 

Company Overview 

 

For 25 years, Garmin
Ltd. and subsidiaries (together, the “Company”) has pioneered new Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation and wireless
devices and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle. Garmin serves five primary business units,
including auto/mobile, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor recreation. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures, markets and
distributes a diverse family of hand-held, wearable, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications,
sensor-based and information products.

 

Overview of the Global Positioning System 

 

The Global Positioning
System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite
technology. The system consists of numerous constellations of orbiting satellites. Access to the systems is provided free of charge.

 

Garmin utilizes a variety
of global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) including, but not limited to:


·The
                                         satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations maintained and operated by
                                         the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment
                                         program to ensure continuous global system coverage. 


·Japan’s
                                         MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) which achieved initial operating capability
                                         for en route, terminal and approach navigation for aviation on September 27, 2007.


·The
                                         European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL)
                                         service which achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal, and approach
                                         navigation on March 2, 2011.


·The
                                         Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), a space-based satellite navigation system
                                         operated by the Russian Federation, consisting of 24 satellites and providing world-wide
                                         coverage. In certain urban canyon or restricted sky visibility situations, the use of
                                         both GPS and GLONASS satellites to produce a navigation fix may result in improved accuracy.

 

The accuracy and utility
of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections
to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS)
comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United
States and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute,
terminal and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility
of WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications.

 

Recent Developments in the Company’s
Business

 

Since the inception
of its business, Garmin has delivered over 141 million products, which includes the delivery of more than 15 million products
during 2014.

 

Automotive/Mobile
Product Introductions

 

In January 2014 Garmin
announced the 2014 line of nüvi® personal navigation devices. The nüvi2798 LMT combines a 7” display with
a wireless backup camera allowing drivers to easily spot vehicles, pedestrians, and other obstructions as they back up their vehicle.
In addition, the 2014 line of Essential nüvis features a 5-6” display as well as lifetime traffic avoidance.

 



    4
     
    

 

In April 2014 Garmin
announced the zūmo® 590LM, which features a 5” touch screen display that is glove-friendly, fuel-resistant, and
sunlight-readable. The zūmo 590LM includes a MP3 player, advanced navigation features, and infotainment options to keep riders
connected on the road.

 

In August 2014 Garmin
announced the fleet™ 660 and 670, the first Android™-based fleet navigators allowing for unique customizations. The
new devices connect to and control a wide range of external devices over Wi-Fi®, Bluetooth®, or serial cable. The fleet
660 and 670 are optimized for in-cab use with dust-proof design, high-sensitivity GPS, extra loud speaker, and a sunlight readable,
6” capacitive touch screen while providing the latest navigation technology from Garmin.

 

Outdoor Product
Introductions

 

In January 2014 Garmin
announced GPSMAP® 64, which brings a dual GPS and GLONASS receiver with a quad helix antenna for superior reception, preloaded
geocaches and smartphone connectivity for LiveTrack and Smart Notification to a product line already popular with customers.

 

Garmin expanded its
line of products for golfers in 2014 with the introduction of the Approach® G7 and G8 handhelds and the Approach S6 watch.
The Approach G7 and G8 handhelds include new measurement features such as PlaysLike Distance, which shows adjusted range for uphill
and downhill shots, Club Advice, which remembers how far users hit each club and makes recommendations based on shot distances,
Big Numbers mode which allows for easy viewing, and offers Smart Notification technology allowing users to receive emails, texts,
and call alerts. The Approach S6 watch comes with first-of-its-kind swing metrics and training tools right on a golfer’s
wrist. SwingTempo, TempoTrainer and SwingStrength™ can be used to improve golfers’ swing consistency and synchronization,
and the S6 is the first golf watch to offer full CourseView maps with GreenView, Touch Targeting, and PinPointer™ on a high-res
color touchscreen. The S6 is the slimmest, lightest golf watch while still delivering 20 weeks of battery life in watch mode or
10 hours in GPS mode and is equipped with Smart Notification technology.

 

In February 2014,
Garmin announced fēnix™ 2, the first Garmin wearable device to include advanced multi-sport features within the rugged
form factor of an altimeter, barometer, compass (ABC) watch. Whether used for running, climbing, riding, hiking, paddling, skiing,
or swimming the fēnix 2 allows the user to easily switch between feature sets and provides real-time feedback on their progress.
The fēnix 2 provides advanced running dynamics, dedicated training modes, and an altimeter, barometer, and a 3-axis compass,
providing navigation functionalities and guidance off the beaten path.

 

In June 2014 Garmin
announced two new GPS-enabled collars, the TT 15 and T 5, for its industry-leading Astro® and Alpha® dog tracking and
training systems. The new TT 15 dog device allows you to track and train sporting dogs up to nine miles away and is utilizing
both GPS and GLONASS satellite technology. The TT 15 also adds a training option, to match individual dogs’ temperament
and has a battery life of 24 to 48 hours. The T 5 is a tracking-only version with the same GPS and GLONASS compatibility without
the stimulation capability.

 

Fitness
Product Introductions

 

In 2014 Garmin announced
the vívo family of products with the introduction of the Garmin vívofit™ and vívoki™ expanding
to the vívosmart™. The vívofit fitness band sets a personalized daily goal that automatically adjusts, shows
steps, calories, goal countdown, distance, and time of day. Vívofit has over one year battery life, is water-resistant
(50m), has interchangeable colored bands, and is compatible with ANT+™ heart rate monitors. Vívokí seamlessly
integrates into corporate wellness and provides accountability for participants. The vívoki records steps, distance, calories
and intensity of exercise. Five LED lights indicate the user’s progress toward a personalized daily goal. The vívosmart
adds connectivity to health and wellness goals. Vívosmart features a touchscreen curved band that remains discreet on users’
wrists with a hidden OLED display that comes to life to show incoming notifications. It has a 5 ATM water rating and battery life
of up to seven days. Vívosmart automatically syncs with the Garmin Connect™ Mobile app and provides notifications
of incoming text, email, call, calendar reminders, and has an added vibration alert.

 



    5
     
    

 

Garmin expanded its
line of Forerunner® running watches in 2014 with the introduction of the Forerunner 920XT and Forerunner 15. The Forerunner
920XT provides a multisport watch with advanced running dynamics including VO2 max estimate, live tracking, and smart notifications
while the Forerunner 15 is an affordable GPS running watch with daily activity tracking and heart rate compatibility.

 

Garmin also expanded
its line of Edge® cycling computers during 2014 with the introduction Edge 1000®, a top of the line cycling computer for
competing, connecting, and navigating. The Edge 1000 includes a large high-resolution color touch screen display, advanced smartphone
connectivity, and automatic sync functionality. In August 2014 Garmin announced the availability of Vector™S, an affordable
option for cyclists to receive the benefits of tracking power in a single-sensing power meter.

 

Marine Product
Introductions

 

In April 2014 Garmin announced
the GNX™ marine instruments GNX 20 and GNX 21. The GNX 20 and GNX 21 both have 4”, glass-bonded, monochrome displays
that show over 50 marine and vessel parameters including depth, speed, wind, and navigational data. The GNX 20 and GNX 21 allow
the screen layout to be configured to the user’s preferred settings and have optimized power consumption using only 350nW
during the day and 400mW at night.

 

In June 2014 Garmin completed
the acquisition of Fusion® Electronics bringing with it, the 700 Series, which allows boaters to connect and control their
audio through select marine multifunction displays (MFDs), and select multi-zone audio configuration specific to their vessels.

 

In
October 2014 Garmin announced the next generation of open-array digital radars with the GMR™ 424, 624/626 and 1224/1226
xHD2. The xHD2 series is significantly quieter and includes a dedicated Bird Mode allowing boaters to locate flocks of birds and
a corresponding congregation of fish. In addition dual radar support is introduced creating more flexibility to view different
ranges on independent multifunction displays (MFD), chartplotters and combination units. Also in October 2014 Garmin announced
a new line of echoMAP™ combination chartplotters that integrates scanning sonar capabilities without the need of an additional
sounder black box. The new echoMAP is equipped with a built-in, high sensitivity 5Hz GPS antenna, providing updated location and
headings five times per second and has built-in SideVü technology, granting the ability to see what’s located on both
sides of the boat.

 



Aviation Product
Introductions and Program Certifications

 

In January 2014 Garmin introduced the
GDL 39 3D, a portable ADS-B and GPS receiver which adds simultaneous display of aircraft attitude information (pitch and roll),
alongside rich, interactive mapping, traffic, and weather within the Garmin Pilot™ application. 

 

In March 2014 Garmin introduced
a comprehensive radar altimeter solution that expands upon Garmin’s high-performance, all-digital GRA 5500 radar altimeter
to include the GRA 55, a best-in-class and cost-effective radar altimeter designed specifically for helicopters and general aviation
aircraft.

 

Garmin announced the
VIRB Elite Aviation Bundle and Aviator Action Pack in March 2014, bringing new pilot specific features and a propeller
filter which reduces propeller distortion created while filming video in-flight.

 

In July 2014 Garmin
introduced the Flight Stream 110/210 small wireless gateway that is easily installed in your aircraft, enabling Bluetooth connectivity
between tablets/phones, and Garmin avionics products. The Flight Stream 110 offers GPS, attitude, weather and traffic streaming
from the GDL 88/84 ADS-B datalink and GDL 69 SiriusXM™ datalink, while the Flight Stream 210 adds the capability
for flight plan syncing with the GTN 750/650 series and GNS 430W/530W series navigators as well as the ability
to display attitude information using an on-board AHRS.

 



    6
     
    

 

In 2014 Garmin
introduced a G3X™ Touch, a touchscreen, flight display system for installation in experimental
amateur-built and light sport aircraft (LSA). The non-certified G3X Touch system offers pilots easy-to-read, easy-to-use, high-resolution
10.6-inch flight displays with split-screen functionality

 

Garmin introduced the Angle
of Attack (AOA) system comprised of the GI 260 AOA indicator, GAP 26 angle of attack probe and GSU 25 air data computer, which
combine to display safety-enhancing AOA and audible alerts throughout critical phases of flight. 

 

Garmin announced a stand-alone ADS-B solution
for the business jet market that significantly reduces the cost and complexity of complying with future FAA mandates.  This
solution is soon to be approved for the Citation V, the Beechjet 400A and the Learjet60. 

 

Other notable 2014 program certifications: 

 


·Citation
                                         X+ (G5000™) and Cessna CJ3+ (G3000™) 


·EASA
                                         validation for Cessna M2 (G3000), Cessna Sovereign (G5000) and Bombardier Learjet 70/75
                                         (G5000) opening up sales in Europe


·Gulfstream
                                         G150 certification for transponder equipment with dual link ADS-B solutions


·Beech
                                         1900 for the G950 Integrated Flight Deck aftermarket upgrade 


·Enstrom
                                         480B (G1000H®)

 

Products 

 

Garmin offers a broad range of solutions
across its reportable segments as outlined below. In general, Garmin believes that its products are known for their value,
high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. 

 

Automotive/Mobile

 

Garmin offers a broad range of automotive
navigation products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market.  Garmin currently
offers to consumers around the world:

 

Personal
Navigation Devices (PND) – 

 


PNDs combine a full-featured GPS navigator
                                         (with built-in maps) with Garmin’s uniquely simple user interface.  PNDs are
                                         sold under the nüvi, zūmo, dēzl™, and fleet brand names.  The
                                         zūmo series offers motorcycle-specific features, the dēzl series offers over-the-road
                                         trucking features while the fleet series delivers an integrated tracking and dispatch
                                         fleet system.  Across the expansive product portfolio, Garmin offers features such
                                         as large screens, integrated traffic receivers for traffic avoidance (including
                                         some models with lifetime traffic updates), bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street
                                         names, voice activated navigation, speed limit indication, lane assist with PhotoReal
                                         junction views - thousands of high quality photos of actual upcoming junctions,
                                         3-D building view,  Bluetooth hands-free capability, DashCams, and backup cameras. 
                                         In fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, the nüvi class of products represented approximately
                                         27%, 34% and 43% of Garmin’s total consolidated revenues, respectively.

 

Infotainment
Solutions – 

 

In addition to PNDs, Garmin has
many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) providing infotainment solutions ranging from portable solutions
utilizing an integrated mount within the vehicle to software navigation solutions to fully embedded systems offering a broad range
of functionality.

 



    7
     
    

 

Mobile
Applications – 

 


Garmin offers mobile applications under
                                         the following brand names:  Viago™, StreetPilot® and NAVIGON®. 
                                         The applications are offered across a broad range of smartphones and tablets including
                                         iOS, Android and Windows enabled devices.  These applications provide users turn-by-turn,
                                         voice-prompted directions and other advanced Garmin navigation features including Reality
                                         View Pro junction information and traffic information.  Some are offered as onboard
                                         solutions in which mapping is downloaded to the user’s device and always available
                                         while some are offboard solutions in which mapping is available via a server utilizing
                                         the mobile connectivity of the device. 

 

Outdoor

 

Garmin
offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities. Garmin currently
offers to consumers around the world:

 

Outdoor
Handhelds – 

 


Outdoor handhelds range from basic waypoints
                                         navigation capabilities to advanced color touchscreen devices offering barometric altimeter,
                                         3-axis compass, camera, microSD™ card slot for optional customized maps and other
                                         features. Outdoor handhelds are sold under the Dakota®, Oregon®, Rino®, Montana™,
                                         Monterra, eTrex®, and GPSMAP® brand names. Each series of products is designed
                                         to serve various price points and niche activity categories. The Rino series of handhelds
                                         additionally offers two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service
                                         (GMRS) that integrate two-way voice communications. The Monterra is Garmin’s first
                                         Wi-Fi enabled, Android-based outdoor handheld GPS.

 

Wearable
Devices- 

 


Garmin offers GPS wrist watches for outdoor
                                         activity. The fēnix 2 provides advanced multisport features, comprehensive navigation
                                         and tracking functionalities, as well as trip information, such as heading, elevation
                                         and weather changes. The tactix adds additional features inspired by the requirements
                                         of law enforcement and police special operations.

 

Golf
Devices - 

 


The Approach® series of golf-focused
                                         devices includes both handhelds and wrist-worn products with up to 30,000 preloaded worldwide
                                         golf courses. The offerings range from basic display of yardages to the front, back and
                                         middle of greens to advanced, touchscreen devices providing measurement of individual
                                         shot distances and display of the exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. A statistic-tracking
                                         feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics. Some devices include
                                         swing metrics, which gives audible tones to fine-tune swing tempo, manual pin positioning,
                                         which allows users to tap and drag the flag on the green for precise yardage to the flag,
                                         and the ability to display emails, text messages and alerts.

 

Dog
Tracking and Training/Pet Obedience Devices - 

 


Garmin offers a series of dog-focused products
                                         providing a range of functionality including GPS-enabled dog tracking, electronic dog
                                         training, and electronic bark correction. The products are offered under the Astro®,
                                         Alpha™, Bark Limiter™ and Delta™ brand names. The Astro series can
                                         pinpoint up to ten dogs’ positions at one time through all-weather collars and
                                         a handheld system, which features many of our outdoor capabilities including: barometric
                                         altimeter, electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior.
                                         Alpha combines the tracking capabilities of Astro with electronic dog training. 
                                         The Bark Limiter is an intuitive electronic bark correction device. The Delta series
                                         of training collars offers a remote training device without tracking capability. 

 



    8
     
    

 

Action
Cameras - 

 


Garmin offers VIRB™ and VIRB Elite, HD 1080p action cameras. VIRB has a 1.4 inch
                                                                            Chroma display, digital image stabilization and lens distortion correction, and it can take high quality still photographs
                                                                            while the video camera is recording. VIRB Elite incorporates all of these features and adds built-in Wi-Fi, data sensors and
                                                                            a high-sensitivity GPS receiver.


 

Fitness

 

Garmin
offers a broad range of products designed for use in fitness and activity tracking. Garmin
currently offers to consumers around the world:

 

Running/Multi-Sport Watches –


 


The Forerunner series offers compact, lightweight
                                         training assistants for athletes with integrated GPS sensor that provide time, speed,
                                         distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring function
                                         and heart-rate based calorie computation. All models allow runners to upload their data
                                         to Garmin Connect, where they can store, analyze and share their workout data. Additional
                                         advanced features include: Virtual Racer™, which allows runners to race against
                                         their previous best times, recovery advisor, race predictor and VO2 max estimate. The
                                         Forerunner 310XT, 910XT and 920XT are designed specifically for triathletes. These all-in-one
                                         GPS-enabled devices provide detailed swim metrics and track distance, speed/pace, elevation
                                         and heart rate for running and cycling.

 

Cycling
Computers - 	

 


The Edge series measures speed, distance,
                                         time, calories burned, climb and descent, and altitude offering an integrated personal
                                         training system designed for cyclists. In addition, Garmin offers devices geared toward
                                         performance-driven cyclists offering real-time connectivity through a smartphone, providing
                                         live tracking, social media sharing and real-time weather updates.

 

Cycling
Power Meter -

 


Garmin offers Vector, which is a high-precision
                                         pedal-based power meter designed specifically for cyclists. It provides power data and
                                         measures and presents right and left leg power balance to ANT+™ compatible devices.

 

Activity
Tracking Devices - 

 


Garmin has introduced vívofit, vívoki,
                                         and vívosmart to address the growing activity tracking market. The vívofit
                                         fitness band provides a personalized daily goal, tracks
                                         progress and reminds users when it’s time to move. The device features a curved
                                         display that shows steps, goal countdown, calories, distance, time of day and heart rate
                                         when paired with a monitor. Vívoki provides similar tracking capabilities in a
                                         small form factor that lacks a display. This offering is designed to be a lower cost
                                         solution for corporate wellness programs. The vívosmart band provides the
                                         same functions as the vívofit but also provides smart notifications and a vibration
                                         alert.

 



    9
     
    

 

Swimming
Watch - 

 


Garmin Swim™ is a watch designed for
                                         swimming pool use and allows users to track stroke type, stroke count, distance, pace
                                         and lengths. Users can also upload their swim data to Garmin Connect, where they can
                                         store, analyze and share the data.

 

Garmin
Connect –

 


Garmin Connect is a web-based analytic tool where users can store, analyze
                                         and share fitness and wellness data. The companion mobile application also provides real-time
                                         weather data and allows users to wirelessly download courses to some devices.

 

Marine


 

Garmin offers a broad
range of products designed for use in the recreational marine industry. Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world:

 

Chartplotters
and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs) -

 


Garmin offers
                                         numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP® brand name. The offerings range from
                                         4-inch helm-mounted products to 19-inch fully-integrated Glass Helm offerings. Cartography
                                         options range from US coastal and lake mapping to worldwide basemaps to highly detailed
                                         BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts offering high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D
                                         map perspective and aerial reference photos to LakeVü
                                         HD and LakeVü HD Ultra, Garmin’s most detailed lake cartography ever created.
                                         Additional advanced features and connectivity available include:
                                         Garmin’s G Motion technology, which delivers ultra-smooth map panning and zooming,
                                         optional wireless remote and a wireless mouse and expanded “plug-and-play”
                                         access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the
                                         Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather,
                                         sonar, and other data). 

 

Fishfinders
– 

 


Garmin offers
                                         two series of fishfinders. The echo™ series are standalone fishfinders ranging
                                         from grayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C, which features a video-quality
                                         640x480 pixel 5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish
                                         arch display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet. The echoMap series provides charplotter
                                         and fishfinder capabilities in a single device.

 

Sounders
– 

 


Garmin offers “black-box” sounders
                                         which interface with Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder
                                         and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package.

 

Autopilot Systems -

 





Garmin offers full-featured marine autopilot
                                         systems designed for sailboats and powerboats. The systems incorporate such features
                                         as: Garmin’s patented Shadow Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages
                                         the autopilot if the helm is turned, remote steering and speed control, and integration
                                         with the Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire
                                         autopilot capabilities for various steering systems.

 



    10
     
    

 

Radar
-

 


Garmin offers
                                         both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible
                                         Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double as the radar screen. The Garmin
                                         radar solutions have a nautical mile range of 36-72 nm.
                                         

 

Instruments
- 

 


Garmin offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant
                                         instrument displays that show data from multiple remote sensors on one screen. Mariners
                                         can display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature,
                                         fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction and more, depending upon what
                                         sensors are connected.

 

VHF
Communication Tranceivers -

 


Garmin provides marine radios with differing
                                         feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners. The entry-level
                                         radio is NMEA 0183 compatible, while the premium radio is designed for 35+ foot boats,
                                         is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all
                                         AIS channels at the same time. 

 

Handhelds
and Wrist-worn Devices – 

 


Garmin offers a marine-friendly
                                         GPS handheld featuring a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer
                                         between compatible units and preloaded cartography for the coastal United States. Also
                                         offered for mariners is the quatix™, Garmin’s first GPS watch designed for
                                         mariners, combining marine features and navigation and sailing capabilities while integrating
                                         Garmin’s GPS technology and interface. 

 

Sailing
–

 


In September 2012, Garmin
                                         acquired Nexus Marine AB, a leading supplier of instrumentation for the sailing and yachting
                                         market. 	Nexus designs and manufactures sailing instrumentation systems, and it also
                                         supplies binoculars, accessories and Silva branded marine compasses.


 

Entertainment
– 

 

In
June 2014, Garmin acquired Fusion Electronics, a leading supplier of integrated marine audio equipment. Fusion designs integrated
audio products and accessories designed for the challenging marine environment allowing boaters to connect and control their audio
through select MFDs.

 


Aviation

 

Garmin’s aviation
product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight
instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems,
terrain awareness and warning systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products, audio panels, cockpit
datalink systems and more. The list below includes a sampling of some of the aviation capabilities currently offered by Garmin:

 



    11
     
    

 

Integrated
Avionics Systems/Flight Decks - 

 


Garmin offers a range of integrated glass
                                         avionics from the G3X for the experimental and light-sport aircraft market to the G5000
                                         for the business jet market. Basic capabilities integrated include: navigation, communication,
                                         attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution
                                         color displays. More advanced features include: Garmin’s 3-D synthetic vision technology
                                         (SVT™), weather, Garmin’s electronic stability and protection system (ESP),
                                         electronic flight charts and touchscreen controls, which utilize patent pending infrared
                                         touchscreen technology, audio and visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know
                                         exactly how the system is responding to their input.

 


Garmin offers similar integrated glass avionics
                                         for the helicopter market through the G500H, G1000H and G5000H®. Basic and advanced
                                         capabilities are similar to those offered to the aircraft market. The helicopter offerings
                                         have been optimized for rotorcraft and offer features like helicopter synthetic vision
                                         technology (HSVT™), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and
                                         nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather with NEXRAD,
                                         and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other
                                         video sources.

 


Garmin also offers all-glass integrated
                                         avionics to the retrofit market through the G500 and G600. These solutions provide electronic
                                         flight displays that work with separate Garmin avionics to provide essential information
                                         such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain and traffic. In addition, upgraded systems
                                         also allow for the display and control of such data as altitude preselects and vertical
                                         speed, DME distance, analog radar altitude, and analog navigation data.

 

Panel-mount
aviation products -

 

GPS/Navigation/Communication Solutions
– 

 


Garmin provides certified GPS navigation
                                         receivers, traditional VHF navigation receivers, instrument landing systems receivers
                                         and VHF communication transmitters/receivers. Features available in different GNC, GTR,
                                         GNS and GTN series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation
                                         capabilities, touchscreen operation, graphical flight planning with vector airways and
                                         high-altitude jet routes, remote transponder, remote audio control, SafeTaxi® and
                                         electronic chart capabilities. Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS)
                                         is an option providing graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle
                                         conflicts along the flight path.

 


Traffic Solutions -




 


Garmin offers traffic avoidance products
                                         combining active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specific traffic
                                         threats. These capabilities are part of our GTS™ series of systems. The systems
                                         use Garmin’s patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology and correlate automatic
                                         dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets.
                                         The offerings include solutions for both the recreational and transport category
                                         of aircraft. 

 


Audio Solutions - 

 


The GMA series are audio panels ranging
                                         from offerings with basic capabilities for the recreational pilot to advanced capabilities
                                         including voice recognition, 3D spatial audio processing,
                                         advanced auto squelch, ambient noise based volume adjustment and independent pilot/co-pilot
                                         communications capabilities.

 



    12
     
    

 


Transponder Solutions - 

 


Garmin provides a range of transponder solutions
                                         in the GTX™ series. The FAA-certified transponders transmit altitude or flight
                                         identification to air traffic control radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic
                                         avoidance devices. Newer transponders offer data link capability, including local air
                                         traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS)
                                         and a pathway to ADS-B compliance for the Next Generation airspace system, via transmission
                                         of traffic surveillance data such as aircraft flight ID, position, altitude, velocity,
                                         climb/descent, and heading information. Garmin offers solutions to both recreational
                                         and transport aircraft.

 


ADS-B Solutions - 

 


Garmin offers an FAA certified ADS-B product
                                         within the GDL® series. Capabilities include GPS satellite navigation with datalink
                                         communications to deliver interactive traffic and hazard surveillance.

 


Weather Solutions - 

 


Weather capabilities are delivered within
                                         our GDL, GSR and GWX™ series. The solutions range from offering XM WX satellite
                                         real-time weather information to the aircraft via panel-mounted devices from Garmin to
                                         on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position
                                         tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required). Also available
                                         in the GWX series are all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitters that bring real-time weather
                                         to Garmin’s multi-function displays and Integrated Avionics Systems, as well as
                                         advanced Doppler-enabled features.

 

Portable
and Wearable Solutions - 

 


Garmin offers the aera® series and GPSMAP
                                         695/696 as portable avionics solutions. The aera series combines an aviation portable
                                         with a full-featured automotive GPS. These touchscreen products come with automotive
                                         maps, a terrain/obstacles aviation database, and a patented instrument display. Advanced
                                         features include: a digital document viewer, a scratch pad, pre-loaded geo-referenced
                                         charts, and XM radio and weather. The GPSMAP series offers detailed electronic charts,
                                         airways and IFR map mode. Other features available include: XM radio and XM WX Satellite
                                         Weather. Garmin announced D2™ in October 2013, which is a premium watch designed
                                         specifically for aviators.

 

Mobile
Application - 

 


Garmin Pilot™ is a premium flight
                                         planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on iOS and
                                         Android-based mobile devices. It provides instant access to comprehensive U.S. and Canada
                                         weather data, winds and temperature aloft, and lightning data.

 

Sales and Marketing 

 

Garmin’s non-aviation
products are sold in approximately 100 countries through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors,
who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. No single customer’s purchases represented 10% or more of Garmin’s
consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 27, 2014. Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmin’s
offices around the world. Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s global penetration and presence
while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.

 



    13
     
    

 

Garmin’s U.S.
consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales
managers and in-house sales associates. Garmin’s Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product
sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s
in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible
for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles
the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors
include:

 


·Amazon.com—internet
                                         retailer;


·Best
                                         Buy—one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics retailers;


·Costco—an
                                         international chain of membership warehouses that carry quality, brand name merchandise;


·Halford’s—a
                                         large European retailer specializing in car parts and accessories; and


·Wal-Mart—the
                                         world’s largest mass retailer

 

Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation
portable products are sold through select aviation dealers around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products, also
through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmin’s largest aviation dealers include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co., Elliott
Aviation, Gulf Coast Avionics Corp., Sarasota Avionics, and Sportsman’s Market. Avionics dealers have the training, equipment
and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.

 

In addition to the
traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In the
automotive/mobile segment, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or through
tier 2 sourcing. Some of Garmin’s larger OEM relationships include Chrysler, Suzuki, Volkswagen, Harley-Davidson, BMW Motorrad,
Mercedes Benz, Bombardier, and Polaris. In the marine segment, Garmin’s products are standard equipment on various models
of boats. Some of the larger OEM relationships include Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner
Boats (a division of Brunswick Corporation), Bavaria Yacht, Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats, Inc., Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington
Marine, LLC, Cigarette Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline
Boats, Ltd., Inha Works Ltd. and Regal Marine Industries, Inc. In the aviation market, Garmin’s avionics are either standard
equipment or options on various models of aircraft. Some of the larger OEM relationships include AgustaWestland, Bombardier, Bell
Helicopter-A Textron Company, Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Embraer SA, Eurocopter, an EADS Company, Beechcraft Corporation,
Pilatus Aircraft Ltd, Piper Aircraft, Inc., Quest Aircraft Company, and Robinson Helicopter
Company. 

 

Competition 

 

In general, we operate
in highly competitive markets though competitive conditions do vary among our diverse products and geographies.  Garmin believes
the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer
service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability.  Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of
these areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets.

 

Garmin believes that
its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (MiTAC) (which distributes
products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors for infotainment
solutions are Harman International Industries, Panasonic Corporation, and the Mitsubishi Group. Garmin believes that its principal
competitors for outdoor product lines are Bushnell, Delorme, Lowrance Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of Navico (“Lowrance”)
Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC , SportDOG Brand and Suunto Oy. For mobile products Garmin believes that its principal competitors
are Google Inc., Apple Inc. and Telenav Inc. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Bryton Corp.,
Fitbit Inc., AliphCom dba Jawbone, Polar Electro Oy, Sigma Sports, Suunto Oy and Timex Corp. For marine products, Garmin believes
that its principal competitors are Furuno Electronic Company, the Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., Navico and Flir
Systems, Inc. For Garmin’s aviation product lines, Garmin considers its principal competitors to be Aspen Avionics, Avidyne
Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, CMC Electronics, Free Flight Systems, Honeywell, Inc., L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins,
Inc., Sagem Avionics, Inc. and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation.

 



    14
     
    

 

Research and Development

 

Garmin’s product
innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering
and manufacturing teams. Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 3,386 people
worldwide as of December 27, 2014. Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely
with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s
development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and
cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.
Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition
it into manufacturing.

 

Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures
on research and development over the last three fiscal years. 

 





    ($'s in thousands) 
    December 27, 2014  
    December 28, 2013  
    December 29, 2012 

    Research and development 
    $395,121  
    $364,923  
    $325,773 

    Percent of net sales 
     13.8% 
     13.9% 
     12.0%




 

Manufacturing and Operations 

 

Garmin believes one
of its core competencies and strengths is its vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities at its Taiwan facilities in Xizhi,
Jhongli and LinKou, and at its U.S. facilities in Olathe, Kansas and Salem, Oregon. Garmin believes that its ownership and operation
of its own manufacturing facilities and distribution networks provides significant capability and flexibility to address the breadth
and depth of resources necessary to serve its diverse products and markets.

 

Specifically, Garmin
believes that its vertical integration of it manufacturing capabilities provides advantages to product cost, quality and time
to market.

 

Cost: Garmin’s
manufacturing resources rapidly and iteratively prototype designs, concepts, products and processes, achieving higher efficiency,
resulting in lower cost. Garmin’s vertical integration approach enables leveraging our manufacturing resources across high,
mid and low volume products. Sharing of these resources across our product lines favorably affects Garmin’s costs to produce
its range of products, with lower volume products realizing the economies of scale of the high volume products. The ownership
and integration of our resources allows Garmin to optimize the design for manufacturing of our products, yielding improved cost.

 

Quality: Garmin’s
automation and sophisticated production processes provide in-service robustness and consistent reliability standards that enables
Garmin to maintain strict process and quality control of the products manufactured, thereby improving the overall quality of our
products. Additionally, the immediate feedback throughout the manufacturing processes is provided to the development teams providing
integrated continuous improvement throughout design and supply chain.

 

Time to Market:
Garmin uses multi-disciplinary teams of design engineers, process engineers, and supply chain specialists to develop products,
allowing them to quickly move from concept to manufacturing. This integrated ownership provides inherent flexibility to enable
faster time to market.

 

Garmin’s design,
manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in its US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international
quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s automotive operations in Taiwan
and Olathe have achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. Garmin’s Olathe and Salem
aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry.

 



    15
     
    

 

Garmin International,
Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to
the ISO 14001 standard, recognizing Garmin’s systems and processes which minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment
and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.

 

Materials

 

Although most components
essential to Garmin’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components are currently obtained
by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key
components that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory
(DRAM), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations.

 

Garmin and other participants
in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries also compete
for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition, Garmin uses
some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication and consumer electronics
industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until Garmin
has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses
new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured or manufacturing capacity
has increased. Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements for strategically important
components. Nevertheless, if Garmin’s supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product was delayed
or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed
shipments of completed products to Garmin, Garmin’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely
affected. Garmin’s business and financial performance could also be adversely affected depending on the time required to
obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source.
Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate
on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet Garmin’s requirements.

 

Seasonality

 

Our sales are subject
to seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand during
the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season
and the Mother’s Day/Father’s Day/graduation buying season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the
timing of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced
by the timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest.

 

Backlog

 

Our sales are generally
of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information
is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.

 

Intellectual Property 

 

Our success and ability
to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often
relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography
technology for use in our products from various sources.

 



    16
     
    

 

As of January 19, 2015,
Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 880 patent and 610 trademark registrations issued worldwide.  For the
past seven years Garmin has been selected as a constituent of the Ocean Tomo® 300 Patent Index which recognizes companies
with high intellectual property value. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees
and their ability to continue to innovate.  Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate
to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in its proprietary technologies. 

 

There is no assurance
that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part.
It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others
will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity
and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.

 

Regulations 

 

The telecommunications
industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with
the United States’ Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required
to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmin’s products sold in
Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications
for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could
adversely affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft”
are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations
before they can be used in an aircraft.

 

Because Garmin Corporation,
one of the Company’s principal subsidiaries, is located in Taiwan, foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan
with respect to remittances into and out of Taiwan may have an impact on Garmin’s operations. The Taiwan Foreign Exchange
Control Statute, and regulations thereunder, provides that all foreign exchange transactions must be executed by banks designated
to handle such business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan and by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), also referred
to as the CBC. Current regulations favor trade-related foreign exchange transactions. Consequently, foreign currency earned from
exports of merchandise and services may now be retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the
import of merchandise and services may be purchased freely from the designated foreign exchange banks. Aside from trade-related
foreign exchange transactions, Taiwan companies and residents may, without foreign exchange approval, remit outside and into Taiwan
foreign currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million respectively, or their equivalent, each calendar year. Currency conversions
within the limits are processed by the designated banks and do not have to be reviewed and approved by the CBC. The above limits
apply to remittances involving a conversion between New Taiwan Dollars and U.S. Dollars or other foreign currencies. The CBC typically
approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits if a party applies with the CBC for review and presents legitimate business
reasons justifying the currency conversion. A requirement is also imposed on all enterprises to register all medium and long-term
foreign debt with the CBC.

 

Environmental Matters 

 

Garmin’s operations
are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances
and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
Capital expenditures for environmental controls are included in our normal capital budget.

 



    17
     
    

 

Environmental regulation
of Garmin’s products is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and
material composition of our products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers
to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance
with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental
laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial.

 

Garmin has implemented
multiple Environmental Management System (EMS) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards,
and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility,
Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.

 

Regulatory and “Green
Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing; particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly
design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established. 
Garmin is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.

 

Employees 

 

As of December 27,
2014, Garmin had 11,185 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 4,177 were in the United States, 80 were in Canada, 5,276
were in Taiwan, 1,168 were in Europe, and 484 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil
and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.

 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

 

The risks described below are not the
only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or
operating results could be materially adversely affected.

 

Risks Related to the Company

 

If we are not successful in the continued
development, introduction or timely manufacture of new products, demand for our products could decrease. 

 

We expect that a significant
portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. The market for our products
is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce
new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer
needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research
and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such
products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed,
will achieve significant customer acceptance.

 



    18
     
    

 

If we are unable to
successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations
would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license
new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or
may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products
to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict,
and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability
of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future challenges related
to new products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory
approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

If we are unable to compete effectively
with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer
orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. 

 

The markets for many
of our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly
greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new
or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development,
promotion and sale of their products or secure better product positioning with retailers. Increased competition could result in
price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against
current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.

 

The demand for personal navigation
devices (PNDs) has been and continues to be reduced by replacement technologies becoming available on mobile devices and factory-installed
systems in new autos, as well as by market saturation. 

 

GPS/navigation technologies
have been incorporated into competing devices such as mobile handsets, tablets, and new automobiles through factory-installed
systems. Many companies are now offering navigation software for these mobile devices. The acceptance of this technology by consumers
has reduced sales in this segment and has reduced margins in some periods. Navigation systems are also becoming more prevalent
as standard and/or optional equipment on new automobiles. Increased navigation penetration on mobile handsets and in new automobiles
is expected to cause further declines in sales of our portable navigation devices and could further reduce margins.

 

Our financial results are dependent
on the automotive/mobile segment, which represents approximately 43% of our revenues, and is expected to decline in 2015. 

 

We experienced substantial
growth through 2008 in the automotive/mobile segment of our business as the products became mass-market consumer electronics in
both Europe and North America. This market is declining as competing technologies emerged and market saturation occurred. This
has resulted in, and could continue to result in, periods of lower revenues for this segment and lower earnings per share.

 

Economic conditions and uncertainty
could adversely affect our revenue and margins.

 

Our revenue and margins
depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness
or constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in periods of decreased revenue and in the future, could result in
decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial
difficulties experienced by our retailers and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad
debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse affect on our results of operations.

 



    19
     
    

 




 

If we do not correctly anticipate demand
for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have
costly excess production or inventories. 

 

We have generally been
able to increase or decrease production to meet fluctuations in demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors
and may be difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support a
diverse product portfolio, as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products
mature. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations:

 


·If demand increases beyond what we forecast,
we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those
suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand. 

 


·Rapid increases in production levels to
meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components and other expenses. These higher
costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may
also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction.

 


·If forecasted demand does not develop,
we could have excess inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some
or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing
efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins.

 

We depend on our suppliers, some of
which are the sole source for specific components, and our production would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able
to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise. 

 

We are dependent on
third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party
suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors.
The cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components
we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs are
manufactured for us by sole source suppliers. Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source components.

 

In the past we have
experienced shortages of certain components. In addition, if there are shortages in supply of components, the costs of such components
may rise. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis and if we are unable to obtain an alternative
source or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, or if the costs of components rise, our ability to maintain timely
and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed.

 

Gross margins for our products may fluctuate
or erode. 

 

Gross margins in some
of our segments have declined in recent years and could further decline in the future due to competitive price reductions that
are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due
to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific
product tend to decrease over that product’s life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost
reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products and on introducing
new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can
be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products
in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products
do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

 



    20
     
    

 

Our quarterly financial statements will
reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation.

 

The operation of
Garmin’s subsidiaries in international markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. We have
experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. dollar. The
potential of volatile foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of
operations. The company has not historically hedged its foreign currency exchange rate risks. 

 

The currencies that
create a majority of the Company’s exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling. The Taiwan
Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation. The U.S. Dollar remains the functional currency of Garmin Europe. The
Euro is the functional currency of most European subsidiaries. As these entities have grown, currency moves can generate material
gains and losses. Additionally, Euro-based inter-company transactions in Garmin Ltd. can also generate currency gains and losses.
Other legal entities primarily use the local currency as the functional currency. Due to the relative size of entities using a
functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations within these
entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.

 

The Company translates
all assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates and income and expense accounts at average rates during the year. U.S. GAAP
requires the Company at the end of each accounting period to translate into functional currency all U.S. Dollar denominated assets
and liabilities. This U.S. GAAP-mandated translation will cause us to recognize gain or loss on our financial statements as the
U.S. Dollar strengthens or weakens against the various functional currencies. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings
per share. Because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on the
Company’s operating performance before the impact of the foreign currency translation.

 

Changes in our United States federal income tax classification
or in applicable tax laws could result in adverse tax consequences to our shareholders. 

 

Legislative proposals
have been considered in the United States within the past few years that could increase the United States tax burden of corporations
with international operations and could broaden the circumstances under which foreign corporations could be considered resident
in the United States.  Legislative proposals are being considered in Switzerland that could make significant changes in the
corporate tax regime and increase the taxes applicable to us in Switzerland.  Our tax position could be adversely impacted
by changes in Swiss, United States or foreign tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof
by any tax authority. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals.

 

We do not believe that
we, or any of our United States or non-United States subsidiaries, are currently a ‘‘passive foreign investment company’’
for United States federal income tax purposes.  We do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company.  However,
because the passive foreign investment company determination is made annually based on whether the company’s income or assets
meet certain thresholds as determined under United States federal tax principles which are based on facts and circumstances that
may be beyond our control, we cannot assure that we will not become a passive foreign investment company in the future.  If
we are a passive foreign investment company in any year, then any of our shareholders that is a United States person could be liable
to pay tax on their pro rata share of our income plus an interest charge upon some distributions by us or when that shareholder
sells our common shares at a gain.  Further, if we are classified as a passive foreign investment company in any year in which
a United States person is a shareholder, we generally will continue to be treated as a passive foreign investment company with
respect to such shareholder in all succeeding years, regardless of whether we continue to satisfy the income or asset tests mentioned
above.

 



    21
     
    

 

We do not believe that
we, or any of our United States or non-United States subsidiaries, are currently a Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) for United
States federal income tax purposes. We do not expect to become a CFC. The CFC determination is made daily based on whether the
United States shareholders own more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company. Only United States persons
that own ten percent or more of the voting power of the Company’s shares qualify as United States shareholders. If the Company
were to be classified as a CFC for an uninterrupted thirty day period in any year, the Company’s shareholders that qualify
as United States shareholders could be liable to pay US income tax at ordinary income tax rates on their pro-rata share of certain
categories of the Company’s income for the period in which the Company is classified as a CFC. As the Company cannot control
the ownership of the Company’s stock nor can the Company control which shareholders participate in the Company’s stock
buyback program, ownership changes could result that create United States shareholders which increase the risk of Garmin being
treated as a CFC.

 

We have benefited in the past from Taiwan
government tax incentives offered on certain high technology capital investments that may not always be available. 

 

Our
effective tax rate has historically been lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, in part because we have benefited from incentives
offered in Taiwan related to our high technology investments in Taiwan. The loss of these tax benefits has
begun to have a negative impact on our effective tax rate and reduced benefits will continue into the future. 

 

We may experience unique economic and political risks associated
with companies that operate in Taiwan. 

 

Relations between Taiwan
and the People’s Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions
of Taiwan in the future could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price
and the liquidity of our shares. Our principal manufacturing facilities where we manufacture all of our products, except our panel-mounted
aviation products, are located in Taiwan.

 

Taiwan has a unique
international political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands and all
of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic
and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that
it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan.
Relations between Taiwan and the PRC have on occasion adversely affected the market value of Taiwanese companies and could negatively
affect our operations in Taiwan in the future.

 

Our intellectual property rights are
important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon other’s rights or are infringed upon by others.


 

We rely on a combination
of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect
our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications
to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications
will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. Moreover, even if approved, our
patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons.
Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.

 

Third parties may claim
that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and
financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property
rights. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such
parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could
also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes
or the production or sale of major products.

 



    22
     
    

 

We may become subject to significant
product liability costs. 

 

If our aviation products
malfunction or contain errors or defects, airplane collisions or crashes could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury
or death. Malfunctions or errors or defects in our marine navigational products could cause boats to run aground or cause other
wreckage, personal injury or death. If our automotive or marine products contain defects or errors in the mapping supplied by third-party
map providers or if our users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur
resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability
for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages.
We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance
would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially
reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage generally will not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost
of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance
to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a materially adverse impact
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

 

Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage
our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and applications. 

 

Concerns about our
practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information, user location information or other
privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. While we strive to comply with all
applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to
comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose users and customers,
which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.

 

Regulatory authorities
around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In addition, the
interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in
flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If
so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could
have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial
costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.

 

Security breaches and other disruptions, including as a result
of cyber attacks, may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 

 

In the ordinary course
of our business, we electronically maintain sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information
and that of our customers and suppliers, and some personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our facilities
and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations. A
breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of our customers'
or our employees' intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information.  A cybersecurity
breach could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted product and service provider by adversely affecting the market's perception
of the security or reliability of our products or services. 

 



    23
     
    

 

We have a technology
and processes in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized
access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time,
we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications
we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly
compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud,
trickery or other forms of deceiving our customers and employees. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques
or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, or if such measures are implemented, and even with appropriate
training conducted in support of such measures, human errors may still occur. It is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate
this risk. A party, whether internal or external, who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate information.

 

Actual or anticipated
attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies,
to train employees, and to engage third party security experts and consultants. Our technology errors and omissions insurance may
not protect against all of the costs, liabilities, and other adverse effects arising from a security breach or system failure.
If we fail to reasonably maintain the security of confidential information, we may suffer significant reputational and financial
losses and our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, a
system breach could result in other negative consequences, including disruption of internal operations, and may subject us to private
litigation, government investigations, enforcement actions, and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or
remediation costs.

 

We depend on third party licensors for
the digital map data contained in our automotive/mobile products, and our business and/or gross margins could be harmed if we become
unable to continue licensing such mapping data or if the royalty costs for such data rise.

 

We license digital mapping
data for use in our products from various sources. There are only a limited number of suppliers of mapping data for each geographical
region. The two largest digital map suppliers are HERE (formerly known as NAVTEQ) and TomTom N.V. HERE is owned by Nokia Oyj and
TomTom N.V. is owned by TomTom N.V. Nokia and TomTom are both competitors of Garmin.

 

Although we do not foresee
difficulty in continuing to license data at favorable pricing due to the long term license extension signed between Garmin and
HERE in February 2015 extending our HERE license agreement through 2024, if we are unable to continue licensing such mapping data
and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the nature of our relationships with HERE changes detrimentally, our ability
to supply mapping data for use in our products would be seriously harmed.

 

We may have additional income tax liabilities.  

 

We are subject to income
taxes in Switzerland, the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our
worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where
the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates
are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical
income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision,
net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.

 

Failure to obtain required certifications of our products
on a timely basis could harm our business. 

 

We have certain products,
especially in our aviation segment, that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example,
FAA certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type-certificated aircraft.
To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources.
An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce
new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers’ ability to sell airplanes. Delays in our obtaining certification
for our aviation products have resulted, and may in the future result, in our being required to pay compensation to our customers.
Therefore, such inabilities or delays could adversely affect our operating results.  In addition, we cannot assure you that
our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results.

 



    24
     
    

 

Our business may suffer if we are not
able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. 

 

Our future success depends
partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel.
We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. Swiss law prohibits us from paying severance
payments to our senior executive officers, which may impair our ability to recruit for these positions. We do not have key man
life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services
of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel
we require to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult. For example, in some recent years there has been a nationwide
shortage of qualified engineers who are necessary for us to design and develop new products, and therefore, it has sometimes been
challenging to recruit such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to maintain and expand
our business.

 

Our quarterly operating results are
subject to fluctuations and seasonality. 

 

Our operating results
are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline,
the price of our stock could decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our research and
development costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales. If revenues decrease and we continue to increase research and development
costs, our operating results would be negatively affected.

 

Historically, our revenues
have been weaker in the first quarter of each fiscal year as our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally
lower in this quarter. Sales of certain of our fitness, marine and automotive products tend to be higher in our second fiscal
quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products in the spring season and travel season. Sales of many of our consumer
products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during
the holiday season. In addition, we attempt to time our new product releases to coincide with relatively higher consumer
spending in the second and fourth fiscal quarters, which contributes to these seasonal variations.

 

We rely on independent dealers and distributors
to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. 

 

Because we sell many
of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory
levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in
their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient
levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted.

 

Many of our dealers
and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable
terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain
or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with
dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer.

 

We may pursue strategic acquisitions,
investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify,
complete and integrate such transactions. 

 

We intend to evaluate
acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products,
or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings,
additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition,
investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete
those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all.

 



    25
     
    

 

Any past or future acquisitions
could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees, operations, and products and diversion of capital and management’s
attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to
integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide
not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other
corporate governance matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we have made in previous years or may make
in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed.

 

There is uncertainty as to our shareholders’ ability
to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan. 

 

We are a Swiss company
and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult
to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland
or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability
provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in
Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.

 

A shut down of Federal Aviation Administration
operations would harm our business.

 

Any failure of
Congress to appropriate funds for FAA operations that results in any shut down of FAA operations or furloughing of FAA employees
could result in delays in the required FAA certification of our avionics products and in the production, sale and registration
of aircraft that use our avionics products. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

 

Many of our products rely on the Global
Positioning System.

 

The Global Positioning
System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites
and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department
of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems
are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites were originally
designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However,
of the current deployment of satellites in place, some have been operating for more than 20 years.

 

To repair damaged or
malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable,
there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites
may impair the current utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. GPS satellites
and ground control segments are being modernized. GPS modernization software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access
to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates.

 

GPS is operated by the
U. S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however if the policy were to change, and GPS were
no longer supported by the U. S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, and financial condition.

 



    26
     
    

 

Some of our products
also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System
(WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS).
Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby
impacting our markets.

 

Any of the foregoing
factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select Global Positioning System-based products instead of products
based on competing technologies.

 

Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties
caused by geopolitical instability, war or terrorism.

 

Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially
any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism,
may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have
an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial
condition.

 

A shut down of airspace
or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. The shutdown of airspace could cause reduced sales of
our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facilities to
our global distribution facilities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers
and distributors.

 

Any reallocation or repurposing of radio
frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference
could harm our business. 

 

Our Global Positioning
System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Government’s Global
Positioning System satellites. The Global Positioning System operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for
radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications
Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations
that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. 
Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used.  In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) share responsibility for radio frequency allocations
and spectrum usage regulations.

 

Any ITU or national
reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications
of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products
and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers.

 

We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks
related to climate change.

 

Climate
change is receiving increasing attention worldwide.  Some scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming
to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts
to limit greenhouse gas emissions.

 

Various
regulatory and legislative measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in different phases of implementation or discussion.
In the aftermath of its 2009 “endangerment finding” that greenhouse gas emissions pose a threat to human health and
welfare, the Environmental Protection Agency has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under
the Clean Air Act. At the federal legislative level, Congressional passage of legislation adopting some form of federal mandatory
greenhouse gas emission reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program, does not appear likely at this time, although it
could be adopted at a future date. It is also possible that Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate
a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency, which could increase
the cost of doing business.

 



    27
     
    

 

    Because it is uncertain
what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

 

Risks Relating
to Our Shares 

 

The volatility of our stock price could
adversely affect investment in our common shares.

 

The market price of
our common shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile.  During 2014, the closing price of our common shares
ranged from a low of $43.63 to a high of $61.69. A variety of factors could cause the price of our common shares to fluctuate,
perhaps substantially, including:

 


·new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;


·general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations
in interest rates and global currency exchange rates;


·announcements of technological innovations;


·product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions;


·developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers;



·the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components,
such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products;


·quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results;


·changes in applicable tax laws and tax rates;


·developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and
litigation;


·announcements and rumors of developments related to our business,
our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete;


·research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage
houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; 


·any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan
or significant markets where we sell our products; and


·other factors as discussed in the previously listed risks.

 

In addition, in recent
years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price
fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.  Any such fluctuations in
the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.

 

Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over
us. 

 

As of January 25, 2015,
current members and former members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with members of their families
and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 40.62% of
our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring
shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions and shareholder proposals. This level of ownership may have a significant
effect in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights
of other holders of our common shares.

 


    28
     
    

 

The rights of our shareholders are governed
by Swiss law.

 

        	The
rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.’s articles of association. The rights of shareholders
under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law
allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders’ meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors
without approval of a shareholders’ meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital
and must be renewed at a shareholders’ meeting at least every two years for it to continue to be available. Additionally,
subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive
rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide
as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions.
Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority
in some other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders
at the general meeting of shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility,
and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders.

 

We may not be able to make distributions
or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax.

 

        	If
we are unable to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or to pay dividends, if any, out of qualifying capital
contribution reserves, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of
35%. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S.
holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty
rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting
stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). Payment of a capital distribution in the form of a par value reduction
or a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, there can be no
assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value or a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves,
that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value, or that Swiss withholding rules will not
be changed in the future or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result
of distributions out of qualifying capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions.
There are currently legislative projects pending in Swiss Parliament and the Swiss federal administration that – depending
on their final form – may limit the distribution of qualifying capital contribution reserves. In addition, over the long
term, the amount of par value and qualifying capital contribution reserves available for us to use for par value reductions or
dividends will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or to pay a dividend out of
qualifying capital contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Swiss withholding
taxes.

 

Under current Swiss
tax law, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% Swiss
withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. However, the portion of the repurchase price
that is attributed to qualifying capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss withholding
tax. No partial liquidation treatment applies and no withholding tax is triggered if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation
but held by us as treasury shares. However, should we not resell such treasury shares within six years, the withholding tax becomes
due at the end of the six year period.

 

We may follow a share
repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a "second trading line" on the SIX Swiss Exchange
in which Swiss institutional investors buy shares on the open market and sell these shares to us and are generally able to receive
a refund of the Swiss withholding tax. However, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may not be able to repurchase
shares for the purposes of capital reduction without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes if and to the extent that the repurchase
of shares is made out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves. No withholding tax would be applicable if and to the extent
that qualifying capital contribution reserves are attributable to the share repurchase.

 



    29
     
    

 

Item 1B